i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1	Madam President, I would like After Brexit in Britain, Donald Trump, U.S.A., followed, and more important political decisions soon come. It is elections in Italy, France, Austria and the Netherlands that can influence Europe's economic and political map. The consequences are uncertain, but one thing is certain: the effort has been increased for all countries that safeguard an open market economy based on free trade and close international cooperation. As the political risks in the world economy increase, while the Western central banks have almost completely exhausted their monetary policy tools, Sweden must have its own financial muscles in order to face the next recession. That is the simple but important reason why we are so concerned about surpluses and well-managed public finances. The global economy gives us better and cheaper – often digitised – products that consume less energy and raw materials. It lifts millions of people out of poverty and connects businesses and consumers all over the world. It also creates incredible conditions for a small country with large export companies. But globalisation is not one-way. It is no longer only Swedish companies that conquer China; today Chinese companies are also conquering Sweden. Competition is tougher. Sweden must become sharper. And it takes new solutions for more people to be successful in this new world. I believe, Madam President, in this open international future for Sweden – partly because it offers enormous opportunities for people who want something, partly because that is how our country has been able to build the prosperity we have for over 100 years. We're not a whole continent. We need others, and it is good that others also need us. But unless those of us who believe in this can convince people that the benefits of globalisation are greater than the disadvantages, it is not primarily the voters who have a political problem. I think we have an increasing concern with trust in Swedish politics. Sweden is now slowly slipping apart, but no one is taking real responsibility for this. The economy is global. Politics is becoming increasingly global. But democracy is local and consists of people of flesh and blood. There is less and less room for satisfied parties and politicians, or for those who want power most out of pure tradition. Madam President, I would like Any attempt to solve Sweden's future problems without great respect for all those who go to work every morning, and for those who invest their money and their commitment to building a new company, is doomed to failure. It is enterprising people, who take full responsibility for themselves and shared responsibility for their city and their country, who have built Sweden's prosperity. That spirit in Sweden is now needed more than ever. But it does not occur in a void. Trust and respect are easy to destroy but hard to rebuild. Madam President, I would like Sweden is facing major problems which must not paralyze us but which must call for reflection and action, because it cannot continue like this. Firstly, the government is mismanaging public finances. When Sweden enters a boom, the government increases deficits instead of saving for worse times. It is a bad policy for a small economy in a world with great risks. Last night came the fourth expert report, which points out that the government is simply doing the wrong thing. Secondly, a government is needed to tackle integration problems. If Sweden is going to be able to become a good country, both for those who have always lived here and for those who are quite new, it cannot be allowed to take eight years before even half of the new arrivals have some kind of job. Sweden needs many tens of thousands of easy jobs for many to start working life with – not a few reluctant thousands. Less than 5% of the government's promised labour market measures have been implemented after the mid-term term. The fast tracks haven't gotten started. The Public Employment Service has no contract for a large number of lack of training courses. Instead of taking this seriously, the government explains away the high figures of exclusion by a lot of flu. Thirdly, I do not believe that the government understands the extent of the Swedish school's problems. Every seventh student leaves comprehensive school without upper secondary school qualifications. Among the children who come to Sweden after school, it is even worse: more than half. Many municipal schools are excellent, but of the 50 worst schools in Sweden 44 are municipal. Yet there is only one school issue that really catches the attention of the government: the one about banning all profits in free school companies. The government now pretends to be concerned about the profit and loss accounts of free schools, but everyone knows that they are actually against freedom of choice itself. Fourthly, the government has already increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by 40 billion this term of office. For each crown the government invests in the companies, you take 10 SEK back in tax. Then all the coordinators, process leaders, councils and delegations are a bit of a comfort in some deserted corridor at the Ministry of Enterprise. More is now coming: Entrepreneur tax, bank tax, truck tax, airline tax, petrol tax and increased marginal taxes will cost companies an additional SEK 20 billion. Unlike all the government's pre-election political courtesys, this is something you can count on after the election. That doesn't impress me. It will not increase entrepreneurship in Sweden. It will drive investments abroad. Rarely has a government so quickly consumed so much trust capital among so many entrepreneurs in Sweden. Madam President, I would like One must be able to make at least four demands of a serious government, regardless of its political color: The government must understand what is happening in the outside world, take it in and react to what is going to happen in Sweden. The government must understand what problems we have ourselves, created by ourselves. The government must be able to distinguish big issues from small ones. And the government must have a plan for Sweden's future. It is difficult to rule, and no government is flawless. But you have to have an idea about where Sweden is going and how we could get there. And it must be a little longer than the text of a May Day plaque. The plan presented by the Moderates does not contain secret ingredients that in a magic spell solve all problems, for they do not exist. If it had been easy to do everything right, someone would have done it a long time ago. But our plan for a stronger Sweden in a troubled world is connected and has a direction forward. It is about a harsh responsibility for the economy being the key to a long-term sustainable welfare policy. Therefore, we are saving SEK 11 billion now and have a budget in balance instead of one with a deficit. It's about not accepting bad schools, no matter who runs them and whether the students want to become nuclear physicists, chemistry teachers or run dry cleaning. All schools should be good. Neither municipalities nor companies should have the right to run bad schools. And the demands on students, regardless of background, to do everything they can to succeed in school also need to be tightened up. In total, we invest SEK 60 billion in school and municipal welfare from 2017 to 2020. That's 20 billion dollars more than the government. We believe that money matters, but we do not believe that money is everything. Our plan is based on the realization that work and effort must always pay off. We want increased demands for everyone who can also support themselves. We want lower thresholds into the labour market and stronger driving forces for our own work. An important principle is that everyone who lives primarily on grants should apply for a job throughout the country. Another is that it should always pay off from social security to work. In fact, that is not the case today. Madam President, I would like A country with high ambitions for the future must have high expectations of everyone who lives and works here. Sweden must stop believing that problems solve themselves or just by saying beautiful things. Nothing suggests that Sweden's current concerns are suddenly just gone one day. Nor does it suggest that they would be insoluble. We must better reward people who make an effort and stand up for a social contract in which everyone who tries to have an honest chance of reaching any distance in our country. There's Sweden not yet. But a party with the ambition to lead Sweden needs a plan to get there.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-28	Madam President, I would like The migration policy reform pursued by the Moderates in 2011 had, to say the least, disastrous consequences for Sweden, especially for the Swedish taxpayers, who had to pay for it. In connection with this, Sweden became an extreme country in these respects – we stuck out properly from the rest of the EU and caused concern to our neighbours. The consequences of this will be felt for a long time to come. In the Finnish Immigration Service's latest forecast from October, we can on the one hand see a slight decrease in asylum immigration. At the same time, however, it is predicted that the number of new so-called connecting cases, i.e. family migrants, will increase to a record level – 307 000 individuals by 2020, i.e. over a four-year period. I have a few questions about that:
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-30	Madam President, I would like We have said several times that we will present a joint election manifesto before the next election because we have a common ambition to take responsibility for Sweden. We're not there yet, as you know. It's 2016 right now. This comes before the next election. That will include the major issues. I do not think it has escaped Oscar Sjöstedt that we have put migration policy quite properly. We've done it ourselves. We have also done so in Sweden. We have contributed to a quite substantial change. It was absolutely necessary. It was an extreme situation before we had the refugee wave in the world. There was extreme tension on Sweden during that period. There were good reasons to change. I am convinced that this rescheduling is permanent. It won't change. I also think that the really big task right now – and it really illustrates a much longer problem – is that it is too difficult to get in and become self-sufficient in Sweden. I am convinced that there are many people from different parts of the world who will be in Sweden and build their own life here. It should be done in the correct way. Sweden should take reasonable responsibility in the world, but above all people who come to Sweden must support themselves. That's where the focus has to be right now.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-33	Madam President, I would like Naturally, I do not feel huge confidence in Moderate immigration policy, and I do not necessarily mean the proposals that you put into substance. Many of these are, as you know, direct plagiarism from my own party. That's on us, of course. But I'm talking about credibility. The reason why I myself and probably most of the electorate do not trust the move of the Moderates is, of course, that one so easily changes one's opinion on such large and important issues, and that one intends to seek confidence to form a government together with parties that are far from one. Can the voters expect a joint draft budget from the alliance parties before the next elections? If this is not the case, then the Moderates have no funding for their efforts, because those they want to govern do not support the savings, but rather want to increase expenditure rather than reduce it.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-36	Madam President, I would like I believe that Sweden has many major problems ahead of it as a new alliance government will have to deal with. I am convinced that it will not be included among them to return Sweden to an unsustainable migration policy. I am absolutely convinced of that. In the autumn of 2015, no easy decisions were made. Nothing happened overnight. It was quite clear that the whole of Sweden was in a completely new situation, which had to be acted upon. One can agree or disagree with the right thing in the decisions that were taken, but to say that they were casual is both to underestimate the situation in the world and the rather difficult decisions we made in Sweden. They were absolutely necessary. They should have come sooner. They won't change again.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-39	Madam President, I would like The anxiety and despair of being told that you have a serious illness and the powerlessness you then feel is very difficult to describe. But even if you're not so seriously ill that it's a danger to your life, you just have a very bad health that makes it hard for you in life, it's obviously hard and boring. If you are ill, you obviously want security to be there – a security so that you don't have to worry about your finances, so that you can afford the rent, so that you can afford the children's winter clothes or that you can fix the monthly bills. Unfortunately, many people today are forced to worry about their finances when they are sick. This budget increases the guarantee for those with sickness and activity benefits, as well as their housing allowance. The stemstock has been removed, and it is now being invested in work life research and more occupational health and safety inspectors. These are important and good reforms. Instead, you in the Moderates propose a reduction in the level of benefits in health insurance. If you have the bad luck of being sick for three months, the compensation should be reduced. If you are even more unlucky and need to remain on sick leave, the benefit should be reduced even more. You want to reintroduce the so-called precipice and intensify the search for the sick. You're saving billions on sick people. In a debate article, you even go so far as to portray the sick as a threat to school and welfare. So you're distrusting sick people. But people are not sick because they want to pose a threat to public finances, as you seem to believe. People want to be healthy. I would like to ask you, Ulf Kristersson: Why do you think sick people get healthier if they get poorer, and why do you distrust sick people?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-44	Madam President, I would like That the Moderates and the Left Party feel a little different about health insurance is for a long time quite obvious. Basically, you have been against all the changes that led to a real reduction in the overall sick leave in Sweden. In principle, you would like it back, that is, the higher the sick leave, the better. I believe that this is an unsustainable view of what health insurance is for. If health insurance is to be economically sustainable and also legitimate in the eyes of the majority of people, it must be tight in its generosity. It will do exactly what you say: help people who currently cannot work or people who, after very careful testing, can never work again. But it must also ensure, at almost all costs, that people return to self-sufficiency as quickly as possible. There was a fundamental flaw in the health insurance that Sweden had. Your coalition partner, the Social Democrats, by virtue of Göran Persson, said that it must be halved if it is to be sustainable in the future. We did that job. We started work on early retirement. We did not do enough when it came to the usual sickness allowance. That's why it's increasing again. If this is not broken, it will crowd out a lot of other things that Swedish welfare must be able to be accountable to its citizens.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-47	Madam President, I would like I notice that Ulf Kristersson does not answer my questions. You hunted the sick. You threw them out of health insurance, whether they were healthy or not. There were many people who suffered tremendously from uncertainty but also from the situation they ended up in. They were sick, but they weren't allowed to be on sick leave. That's what you decided. You hunt the sick, and you create a distrust. You describe it as a threat to our common welfare and school. I think that a party of your size should certainly not relate to it that way. Therefore, I ask you again: Why do you think sick people feel better if they get poorer? And why do you spend your savings on the sick and not on those who are the best off? D e must have even more deductions and subsidies. It says quite a lot about what kind of party you are. It is the most vulnerable who should always carry the heavy loads when you say that you are going to clean up the state's finances or when you have to make savings. That's what's happening over and over again. Then you seem to forget that you are creating huge holes in public finances with your own policy by always prioritising tax cuts to the richest. Time and again you come to the same conclusion. It is the sick, the unemployed and the most economically vulnerable that you should save, never ever on those who already have the very good. You create a mistrust with your policy. Instead, why not put gunpowder on rehabilitation, on prevention and on ensuring that welfare has the resources to maintain a better working environment and so on? There are lots of things to do. You can even impose fines on companies that misbehave. But such thoughts do not come up in your heads at all. It's all about saving the sick and spreading mistrust. I strongly reject such a policy, because I want a society that stays together.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-51	Madam President, I would like This is, to say the least, nonsense. Ulla Andersson inserts the Twitter language level into the Chamber. I think it is beneath our common dignity. Ulla Andersson knows very well that it is not the sick who threaten anything – nobody thinks so. But health insurance that gallops and crowds out all other costs threatens welfare. Health insurance that calls into question legitimacy and wonders why we have health insurance at all threatens welfare. The entire civilized world, which has welfare systems, has time limits that test whether people are healthy enough to get back to work or not. Nothing threatens people's freedom, health and independence more than a permanent dependency on subsidies. That you want people permanently dependent on grants, I just think it's tragic. But don't tell me that we want to ruin people's lives when all we do is ask them to come back to work and support themselves.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-54	Madam President, I would like I must begin by saying that I did not understand much of moderate Twitter when Ulla Andersson spoke. I think you should be careful about throwing stones in glass houses. However, I can only agree with Ulf Kristersson on several points he made in his speech. Among other things, it is about how important it is that we have a world that works and that we help make it work, because we are all together in a dense web, not least economically. I can also agree with Ulf Kristersson on the importance of order in our public finances. I am convinced that Ulf Kristersson, deep down, is very pleased that the government has cleaned up the major deficits that the government he was a minister in left behind. I had to stay there a little bit, because Ulf Kristersson was actually personally responsible for a large part of the problems that were left behind. This applies, for example, to the costs of health insurance and the lack of cost control. The only thing that got real spin, so to speak, was insurance, but the costs still continued to increase. This, together with the major tax cuts, in particular for those who were well-off, led to large deficits. None of this seems to Ulf Kristersson to be prepared to take proper responsibility for today. The government ensures that the increase in his area, health insurance, is not only broken but now also seems to be able to be reversed without people being insured. Why is out-of-insurance so important to Ulf Kristersson?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-58	Madam President, I would like I believe that in the light of history it will be noted that there were two absolutely fundamental changes that we did during our time in power. The first was about making work pay and making it more profitable to work than not to work. Job tax deductions were the essence of that policy. It was about making sure that people who go to work every morning and try to keep more of their pay. We once had that insight in common. After the 1980s orgies in marginal tax increases and given the obvious absurdity that the state took away almost everything they got extra with an extra effort, there was broad agreement that high taxes reduce labour – and thus reduce tax revenues. We did something about that. Combined with the turbulence of the financial crisis, it was an absolutely necessary economic policy in Sweden. The second thing that I think the light of history will show is that we had a totally unreasonable situation with an exclusion of 20%. 20 per cent of all adult Swedes of working age lived entirely on benefits when we took over responsibility in 2006. There was broad agreement among all insightful people that it was an untenable development. We did something about it. Of course, if it had been easy to solve those problems, you would have done something about them. But it wasn't easy. Then you were against every step we took. You almost enjoyed the criticism that always exists when making difficult reforms. What we managed to do was stop unnecessary early retirement. We did a good job. We brought the exclusion down from 20% to 14%. What we did not achieve fully was to do something about the high standard of sickness, which is still going up and down. We still have a homework to do there. You don't take it seriously.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-62	Madam President, I would like Of course, I do not share Ulf Kristersson's view of what he himself performed in government. It was during the years that he himself was responsible for the health insurance curve ticking upwards. Of course, that development continued. Now we see that we are putting in other measures than securing people. These are things that bring people back to work. We have a better process of sick leave. We take the questions seriously and do not simply send people out of insurance. In addition, when people are sent out of insurance, they end up somewhere else, not infrequently in the municipal social assistance queue. All this was Ulf Kristersson's responsibility. Now he blames the government for having problems with cost control when, in fact, we get to this development with stronger public finances and more cost control in our major social systems – all that you yourselves failed to cope with and that led to a large deficit in public finances. Then I also wonder how to find, as the Moderates do, that more of insecurity, more of increased gaps and less of cohesion would be a good solution for Sweden. It is really nothing but a recipe for more of right-wing populism. The eight years of increased gaps and more insecurity and the policy that Ulf Kristersson now wants to conduct leads to less cohesion, confidence in the future and confidence in democracy and the political system.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-67	Madam President, I would like In a situation where sickness benefit and sick leave continue to increase, your recipe is to remove the time limit. In a situation where you still have to do something, your recipe is to put all responsibility for this on Sweden's entrepreneurs. You run the line of being guards for you because you don't dare or dare to do that function in the state until you are forced to give up this in a kind of half-square attempt to say with long memos that we probably have another solution– still unclear what it looks like. This impresses me little. I know how difficult it is to make reforms in health insurance. I know it's still possible to do it. You have to be clear and you have to be consistent. The problem that we still have and that you should be concerned about is that it still goes up and down in a way that no serious researcher in Sweden can say that you know why it is. There's one problem left. The second thing I would like to say is that the increased gap that I see in Sweden and which concerns me most is the gap between people who work and support themselves and those who never work and never support themselves. Those who wait eight ten years to maybe get their first job in Sweden, those who are long-term sick and never come back because nobody expects it, those who are long-term unemployed in places where jobs are scarce. I am very concerned about that gap, not only with regard to the people themselves, but also with regard to their children. Thousands of children never see their parents go to work in the morning, never seeing their parents have their own income and independence. That gap is serious. The fact that there is a gap between people who work in different ways, that it pays to make an effort and that one should be able to get rich in running one's own business does not seem to me problematic. We need more people who make more effort, more people who see a fruit of their work in Sweden. You have never understood this. You only see them as fiscal objects.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-73	Madam President, I would like It was expected that the Moderates would propose new tax reductions. But one thing that surprises me and which creates confusion about the Alliance's climate policy is that the Moderates propose to lower the tax on fuel. It is also a significant reduction over the budget period, around 8 billion, and it is clear that it is damaging climate governance. In addition to the reduction in climate-management taxes, the Moderates are also proposing substantial cuts to other climate measures. The Moderates want to see that the efforts that are being made around the country to reduce emissions locally and regionally should not receive the support that the government has put in place. It is not surprising that the Nature Conservation Association also estimates that the Moderates' draft budget will worsen climate policy. What I'm asking is really what the Mod Erats are saying to their colleagues around the country. When I'm out talking to party colleagues and other politicians in various activities around the country, I explain how important and good it is that both public and private actors are looking for money together in the climate economy to take further steps towards reducing emissions. It is important that planning is continued for investments that reduce emissions, and the government is responsible for the long-term. So what is the response of the Moderates to the companies and municipalities seeking support to invest in reducing emissions? Are the Moderates really serious about tearing up the whole climate life and stopping the investments now planned to reduce emissions, if you could decide?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-77	Madam President, I would like We doubt your climate policy in at least two ways. One is that you always see opportunities to tax people who want to do things to make Sweden roll better. If you just have the idea that everything that you think is problematic should be taxed harder, it basically means that we get a worse economy in Sweden and less able to do much of what we need to do also about the environment. The solution to Sweden's environmental problems is not in people not going to work in the morning. The solution is not that we do not go abroad. It is no coincidence that the same people who around the world now want to do everything they can to isolate their countries from international cooperation are also those who are evading their countries from joint climate agreements. It's connected. If we want to be a part of the world and be involved in solving the world's environmental problems, the solution is not to make it more expensive for Swedish entrepreneurs to be able to have employees here in Sweden. That's not how it works. We will do much more good if we can ensure that these solutions are effective around the world. I'm not the only critic. Read the Financial Policy Council's criticism of this policy orientation! If we were to push it all the way, climate policy would be so expensive that countries that needed it most cannot afford to implement it. Do not let our high ambitions become an obstacle to other countries that have even greater problems solving even greater environmental problems!
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-81	Madam President, I would like What I hear from Ulf Kristersson is that the green tax exchange that the Center Party is happy to talk about will have problems in the event of a moderate government. It is sad that the Moderates are proposing tax cuts. It has been signalled earlier in this House by Ulf Kristersson that there would actually be offensive proposals on the environment. But I am still waiting both for the environmental tax proposals, and not for the reductions, and for climate action by the Moderates. Now it feels like the time has come to decide. It is not honest with the voters to talk as the Moderates do on this issue and constantly say that it is important that we do something but then not present any solutions. Do the Moderates really think that we should reduce emissions in Sweden in order to achieve our own environmental goals, or do the Moderates think that it is other countries that should take responsibility for that too, just because it becomes cheaper for us?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-85	Madam President, I would like I am not, of course, going to give Emil Källström's speech on the environment here, but what the Center Party has understood is that tax exchange means raising the tax on some s a ker and lowering the tax on other things. It's kind of in the concept itself. That is to say, we use the tax system to govern in such a way that we feel is beneficial to what we want to achieve. I think that's legitimate and good. What you mean by tax shifting is tax increases. You are doing nothing to help those hard-tested entrepreneurs who are trying to sell their products in Sweden and abroad get relief in some other way. You are only attacking, with the world's most expensive environmental policy, Swedish entrepreneurs instead of prioritising our efforts where limitless environmental degradation would best be combated. This is what the Center Party understands. The Green Party doesn't understand that.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-88	Madam President, I would like Over the years, the Swedish Democrats have argued that a successful integration policy is directly dependent on a sensible and balanced immigration policy. We have then been told that we were wrong, that the lack of integration is due to discrimination and that Swedes in general and Swedish entrepreneurs in particular would be xenophobic. Now, after all these years, we have all been partly right, albeit reluctantly. There are today few who seriously claim that immigration and integration should not be linked. Nevertheless, the old parties want to get away from the immigration debate and instead talk about integration. I would therefore like to remind you of a few things. The Prime Minister has claimed that we have gone to the minimum level of the European Union in the field of immigration. However, this is not true – unfortunately, one has to say. Sweden remains at the EU's top level in terms of per capita immigration. Also, although the immediate migration of asylum has decreased as a result of measures proposed by the Swedish Democrats for a long time, the Swedish Immigration Service's latest forecast of new record numbers for the migration of relatives shows: By 2020, 307 000 family migrants are expected to come to Sweden. I think that as a politician and, in particular, as a government representative, we have a duty to talk about this in front of our electors. Is there a plan this time for school, health care, housing shortages, support for living? Are we once again thinking of lap pa and fixing a little according to the situation, rolling over the responsibility of the municipalities, which are already in deficit, and hoping that no one protests too loudly? Or is it going to blame the EU, because it has renounced sovereignty across its own borders? The Swedish Democrats do not accept this, and I am convinced that the majority of the voters do not accept it either. Madam President, I would like It is my view that the old parties have and have had an incomplete view of integration. Their definition of integration is that one is occupied. The definition of employment is that m an must have worked at least one hour in the last week. Then let it be because work is tax-subsidised up to 80% of the labour cost. Due to this one-track analysis, the measures have been more of the same. These are special solutions, special solutions and special solutions. It's one subsidy after another and fake jobs instead of real jobs to clean up the statistics on the margins. These are segregated tax scales on an ethnic basis. I find it incredibly difficult to see how they would increase the cohesion of a divided society. Despite the fact that the Swedish Democrats have raised warning flags in all these years, we are prepared to take on the leadership shirt and take responsibility. We must begin by broadening and nuance the picture of what integration actually means. First of all, we need to talk about security, about maintaining law and order. It is my absolute conviction that no social effort in the world can solve any problems in an area characterised by more or less anarchy. There are over 50 so-called no-go zones where the social apparatus in the form of police, rescue services, ambulances, home services, even public transport has basically surrendered. Add the hundreds of so-called alienation areas. We need a new leadership in Swedish police. We need increased resources and powers. We need more police, and we need better working conditions and wages so that more people also want to become police officers. Today, society is taking too lightly on public employees. I would like to remind you that staff is something you have to borrow. They're not something you own. If you fail to be an attractive employer, with all that means, you also risk losing your staff. That is exactly what happens in many public professions. That is why the Swedish Democrats in this year's budget are investing particularly strongly in the public employees, their working conditions and their salaries, on the police, on the teachers, on the nurses. We also need to talk about a broader concept, about cultural community. How on earth are we to integrate new people into our country when there are politicians in leading positions who question the very existence of a Swedish culture? It is shameful how much of the political, media and cultural elite have made every effort to devalue or not even acknowledge the existence of a Swedish cultural community. How on earth are you to be included in something that doesn't even exist? Madam President, I would like We have a head of government who says that a few of those who come to Sweden, mainly from outside Europe and the West, have a low level of education. The rest of us, that is, all of us who are more interested in facts than in hopes, know that there are quite a few. More than 600 000 adults in Sweden today have no upper secondary school degree. It is interesting because it is in this group that the gloomy labour market figures are being properly reminded – whether you are a native or a foreign person. We need to remedy this, including by setting up real apprenticeship programmes where nuclear material can be studied a couple of days a week at the same time as a job placement for the rest of the week. This is something that entrepreneurs themselves take a positive view of and are positive about – given that they receive the right support. By that I mean both financially and administratively. We'll offer them that, too. This is where previous governments have failed miserably. The Swedish Democrats are investing heavily in their budget bill. Of course, small businesses have an important role to play, and, of course, small businesses without collective agreements should also accept apprentices, no matter what the champions of the LO castle think. As far as small businesses are concerned, where the new jobs are being created after all, we are going to help them, not spoil them. We should not give them increased costs of sickness pay, which the government thinks is a good idea. On the contrary, we should allow the public to bear these costs. We should not introduce a new entrepreneurial tax that severely hampers the incentives for small businesses to start up at all. Here I pray to the higher powers that even the alliance parties are ready to blow to battle. On the contrary, we are going to reduce their costs of hiring. Madam President, I would like Arbetsförmedlingen as a public authority enjoys an extremely low level of trust in the Swedish public administration. There are reasons: D one does not work. Last year, 4% of those enrolled stated that they had been helped by an employment intermediary in finding a new job. Those who should reasonably be regarded as the employer of the Employment Service, i.e. companies, employers, are tired and find other ways instead. Yet this colossus of authority, which in budgetary terms corresponds to the entire Swedish Armed Forces, is allowed to continue to operate with terrible results. We need to learn from other countries, not least Australia, where much more players have been involved in solving the mismatch – private companies, social enterprises and other organisations as well. Employment services in their current form need to be vigorously reformed. Madam President, I would like If we are to have a welfare state also for the next generations, we need sensible and means-tested immigration. We need sensible conditions for entrepreneurs. We need a policy of integration that does not start with separate solutions, but works for everyone. We need to severely restrict the right of non-citizens to and access to welfare. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservations Nos 2 and 7. I would also like to inform the President and others that in the event that those reservations fall in the vote this afternoon, the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group will give their votes on reservations 1 and 6. This means that if the junior alliance parties do the same, the government's budget bill and, in all probability, the rest of the government will fall. I assume that if you think that the government's budget proposal is harmful, you take the opportunity that I am offering here and now. If you do not, I think you have no confidence in criticism of the government's budget proposal.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-110	Madam President, I would like As is certainly well known, the Center Party intends to be Sweden's best environmental and rural party. It's not an easy balance. Not infrequently, the environmental movement is pushing proposals that go out over the countryside. The rural movement sometimes drives proposals that are bad for the environment. We need to find a good balance in between. Right now, we've managed reasonably well. We believe that we are the best rural party with horse lengths, and we are well on the way to becoming Sweden's best party on the environmental issue. However, we can find inspiration for how not to do so at the Swedish Democrats. As I see it, both rural and environmental policies are about, among other things, doing the right thing on all issues that are characterised by the perspective of many streams small. It is important to do the right thing on the many detailed issues that so often characterise politics. But it is also important to be on the right side of the big moves and the big processes. The environmental and rural issues have a lot to do with each other. Consider, for example, when tackling the climate challenge and climate change. We have to change our society. This applies both to Sweden and to all countries in the world, and it is possible to do so in such a way as to clearly create opportunities for, for example, green industries, biofuels and biofuels, that is to say, things that are needed to switch from a fossil economy. Recently, the Swedish Democrats as the only party in the Swedish parliament have voted against the Paris Agreement and consistently voted against and pushed for the removal of support and political efforts to stimulate a bioeconomy. There is a completely wrong side to both the climate issue and the future of rural areas. The question to Oscar Sjöstedt is obvious: how can a party get so wrong on two such important issues?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-114	Madam President, I would like After all, the Paris Agreement was not dealt with in our committee, but the information I have received is that it was not the content itself that we voted against, but rather the approach. There was a lunta thrown on paper on you, and then you were basically going to make a decision immediately. That's how I understood it. This, rather than the content, we had some points of view, just to sort it out. That's the information I've been given. Biofuels are heavily subsidised today. I don't know if the Center Party thinks they're a good idea. Most often, your subsidies distort the economy quite severely. To the extent that we need subsidies, they should at least be of a temporary nature. At least that's my opinion. The problem with the rather heavy subsidies we have in Sweden today is of course that they cost a lot of money. We talk a lot of billions every year. It is also the case that the biofuels we have are being imported to an appalling extent. It is an incredibly small part of production that takes place in Sweden and thus creates jobs in Sweden. They are imported from other countries, at worst from countries where rain forests, for example, are being destroyed, in order to create the production of what we then import in the belief that we are creating environmental benefits. We obviously do not do that if our subsidies lead to the destruction of forests in other parts of the world to produce what we then import because it is so subsidised. It is an extremely strange policy that costs taxpayers money, does not create employment in Sweden and has a negative impact on environmental benefits at a global level.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-117	Madam President, I would like We voted on the Swedish ratification and implementation of the Paris Agreement here in the Swedish Parliament. It was a historic vote. The Swedish democrats therefore voted 'no' – not for any approach, but for Sweden to ratify the Paris Agreement, the best global hope for tackling climate issues at the moment. After Donald Trumps's turn-over last night, the Swedish democrats with the artefact manage to be a greater threat to the Swedish climate than the new American President. The Swedish Democrats have a worse position on the environmental issue than Donald Trump. That's impressive in itself, I have to say. Of course, it costs to develop policy instruments to stimulate new technologies such as good Swedish biofuels. True, we import some – most of it we import from Finland – but Swedish producers of biofuels also export large parts of their production. You have to be aware of this when you look at these questions. I am much more concerned about the cost of remaining dependent on Russian oil than the cost of changing the Swedish fleet of vehicles and actually finding a solution for the new petrol and diesel cars that are now rolling out on the market. They must also be able to switch to environmentally friendly operations during their lifetime. Of course, as the Swedish Democrats choose to just ignore this challenge and talk about other things. But then you do us all a disservice by being on the wrong side of the climate challenge while large parts of Sweden are denied access to these values, which today are sent to at least some Swedes' friends in the Kremlin.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-121	Madam President, I would like That got a little silly. I'm not even going to comment on that. It's just ridiculous. Of course, things can cost. If we are to achieve some kind of environmental benefit, it may cost a little money. You have to weigh that down. Emil Källström was into it, and that is quite right. It's always a balance. But if we have a subsidy that leads to environmental benefits at a global level – that's what's interesting – what we do locally, after all, doesn't affect much in the long run – then we can invest as much as possible without it getting better. One example of this is the subsidies on biofuels, which may not increase climate benefits at all but, on the contrary, have a negative, detrimental effect on climate benefits. Then it doesn't matter how much it costs; it still gets bad. I believe that the transition that we are talking about must take place by investing more money primarily in research – which we Swedish democrats also do in our budget motion – and by sticking to the usual principles of a market economy. To perpetrate subsidies in the way proposed will not work, but the transition must take place with the market economy as the guiding principle in some sense. Where Donald Trump lands in the end, we'll see. I don't think we know that. Obviously, he can change his mind. But it's not something I'm going to comment on, because I have no idea.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-126	Madam President, I would like Year after year Oscar Sjöstedt or one of his colleagues here promises that they can conjure up billions if they only get free hands with those people who don't fit into Swedish democratic society. But year after year it turns out that these billions are actually to come from cuts in welfare. The Swedish Democrats cut over 30 billion in appropriations in their draft budget. Even if you would believe in the Swedish Democrats' joy calculations of the tax revenues for municipalities, there is a lack of over 10 billion to the local government sector and thus to the welfare that the local government sector provides to citizens. That is equivalent to 20 000 nurses, for example. In what way does Sweden become a better and more inclusive society and how do we solve societal challenges through these cuts in care for the elderly and school? In addition, Oscar Sjöstedt talks about integration. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats in their draft budget have a cut of SEK 16 billion on establishment, i.e. on money that goes to people who work with their integration. In what way would this overwhelming of costs on the municipalities improve welfare, and what does Oscar Sjöstedt think is needed to really reduce the cost by 16 billion already after the New Year? Should people who are now in the establishment just cease to exist? How are you going to do that in practical terms?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-129	Madam President, I would like It's not a bit strange-- we don't want any more of the same. These billions after billions to various initiatives that Fredrik Olovsson's party and previous governments have introduced have not worked. It hasn't worked before, it's not working today and it's not gonna work. All the time these special solutions – specifically targeted grants and subsidies depending on where in the world you come from and so on. They don't lead to jobs. Get it off! Remove the entire notice! It doesn't work, so we don't have any trouble removing it. That is absolutely correct. We spend that money in a lot of other ways – on apprenticeships, on tax cuts for small businesses, on a lot of things that lead to real jobs and not these constant subsidised fake jobs. Of course, we are not making any cuts whatsoever in either the local government sector or welfare in general. Saying we're doing it is wrong. That's not true. We have the same financial savings in the local government sector as the government has in its alternative. The figures in our budget have been asked by Parliament's investigation service to count on. It is also RUT's figures we have used, and the memos on which this is based are published for everyone to look at. So it is a false opinion or a false statement. That's not true. We are investing quite heavily in welfare, not least in care for the elderly. I object to Fredrik Olovsson's description that there are people who do not fit in. We must have a sensible immigration policy. The Social Democrats, too, are well responsible for regulated immigration. Does this mean that Fredrik Olovsson thinks that those who are not allowed to join the Social Democrats' proposal, they do not fit in? It's such a strange way to describe things. We must have a responsible policy. It's as simple as that.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-134	Madam President, I would like My party and I are responsible for regulated immigration and migration. This means that the people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden do not immediately disappear there just because Oscar Sjöstedt wants it. If the cost is not to be taken from the state budget of 16 billion, it will be taken elsewhere from 1 January, namely from the budgets of the municipalities. The common solution that Oscar Sjöstedt is asking for is support, which is taken out of the cashier who will also pay for care for the elderly, school and preschool. So Oscar Sjöstedt is back in that he actually has to explain how these people are going to get jobs all of a sudden. If they do not get it, the money has to come out, and Oscar Sjöstedt has just taken it from all the local councillors in the country, who cannot give wages to the employees in school and care for the elderly who are needed so well there. I do not share the view of the other savings. If you read in the Swedish Democrats' budget, you can see that they cut the appropriations by over 30 billion. They hope that this will have a major impact on local government revenue as they do a little bit about the tax system. Even if these joy calculations were to be trusted, there are still 10 billion additional cuts in addition to the 16 billion taken from the area of integration. How will Sweden be better off by this kind of cuts in our welfare? How will cohesion be improved by this kind of cuts in our welfare? How will jobs become more of this kind of cutback in our welfare?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-139	Madam President, I would like These joy calculations are tasks that we have received from the parliamentary investigation service. Those of us who do not have access to the Ministry of Finance use this service to make such calculations. I don't buy the description. The costs and expenditure of the local government sector are considerably lower in our proposal, and this has to do with immigration policy. If there are a lot of people coming to Sweden who need one and the other – school, care, housing, subsistence support – the Social Democrats and the other parties must set aside money for it. If we have a policy in which fewer people enter the country and we have a less strain on welfare, the transfer system and so on, we will have lower spending. It's not really hard to understand, it's quite simple logic. It is clear that people who have been granted a residence permit do not disappear, but that does not mean that they should cost a lot of money in the pretend employment policies of the Social Democrats, where they circulate back and forth a little bit and never end up in jobs. We have other solutions where they get real jobs and even stop costing money and instead start contributing money. I think that is a much better solution.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-142	Madam President, I would like I listened with interest to Oscar Sjöstedt's speech and I note that our language is losing its value. He described his immigration policy as sensible and balanced. It doesn't matter if it's 1 000 or 160 000 – the policy of the Swedish democrats is the same: there should be no refugees here. You have a policy that fuels and profits from mistrust and polarisation, Oscar Sjöstedt. You have no problem creating scapegoats for our common problems and failures, and you profit from it. Since Oscar Sjöstedt is interested in these questions: It is clear that we should have a sustainable reception over time. We shall be able to accept refugees today, and we shall be able to do so tomorrow. The rhetoric of Oscar Sjöstedt and his party has a political prize. I visited one of the largest employers in northern Stockholm. They have 500 employees, many of them engineers, and are world leaders in thermal cameras. I asked if they had any specific message for politicians and thought they would talk about tax, simplification or anything else. But they said: We are concerned about how attitudes towards immigrants change and about talking negatively about immigration. For a company like ours, which works with 99 percent on exports, the influences that come from outside are absolutely necessary. It is important to remember that the polarisation that you stand for, Oscar Sjöstedt, has an economic policy prize. Now I was going to ask you a question about your tax policy. You want a tax reform of SEK 180 billion. What I understand is a large part-financing of this increase in VAT, reduced or abolished interest rebates and the abolition of the entire job tax credit. This would lead to strong marginal tax increases for all those in Sweden who have more than one upper secondary education. In what way does such a abolished education premium, also for upper secondary education, strengthen Sweden's competitiveness?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-148	Madam President, I would like That's not true. We have proposed a rather large tax shift with large tax cuts on labour income, directed more towards low-income earners but also towards high-income earners and everyone in between. It is a sharp reduction in the tax burden on labour income. It is a list against the low-income earners, but also against the high-income earners. This model needs funding in one way or another, and then I suggested that we sit down and look at a model for such funding and how we can get significantly lower taxes on labour income in Sweden for everyone. The other parties did not want to be involved in investigating such a model, which is why it did not go away. But I think it is a very exciting model for jobs, jobs and growth in Sweden. I therefore stand by the suggestion that we should sit down in parliamentary terms and look at funding. Reduced taxes, of course, give households more money, not less. Madam President, I would like I do not speak ill of immigrants, possibly politicians. It happens on and off, perhaps a little too often, because it is after all the present and the previous government that has caused the problems we see in Sweden today. They have been caused by immigration policy, and that should be kept separate. Jakob Forssmed talked about the relationship between export value for Sweden and immigration, but Sweden's three largest export markets in terms of export value in SEK are Germany, Norway and the USA, in that order. It is perhaps not really these countries that we associate with strong immigration into Sweden, but rather countries such as Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Somalia and Eritrea, where the value of Swedish exports is minimal. There is no support in the research for what Jakob Forssmed says.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-152	Madam President, I would like That was not really my point, but my point was that I asked a company – one of the largest employers in northern Stockholm – what they think is the problem. They described a rather big problem, and I think that all of us who work with business policy have reason to take it seriously. It would be good if Oscar Sjöstedt could ensure that his party does not speak negatively about immigration. There I think he has quite a lot of work to do in his party. At least that is my preliminary assessment here in this House. Let me get this straight. Is it the case, or is it not the case, Oscar Sjöstedt, that you want to abolish the entire current job tax credit? The deduction has made it significantly more profitable to work and made sure that we have broken large parts of exclusion. You want another tax reform that removes the job tax deduction and the entire interest deduction, if I understand it correctly, for all households that deduct interest in Sweden. Many families with children, especially in the big cities, would suffer. You also want to increase the VAT for these households. I have a brief question: do you want to abolish the job tax credit or not?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-155	Madam President, I would like The answer is no. We do not want to abolish the job tax credit. We are in favour of the job tax deduction, and we have been running this in several budgets. On the other hand, the job tax credit, despite its name, does not have the character of a deduction. Job tax deductions are more of a reduction in tax revenues. I'm sure Jakob Forssmed will understand what I mean by that. This is a bit technical and perhaps a bit complicated, but as we are on this subject, I have to mention it. I think it is better that it has the character of a deduction instead, not a reduction, so that the list goes towards the lower income deciles. Everyone gets lower taxes, but it becomes a list against the lower income deciles, but also the higher income deciles. Of course, you cannot remove the interest deduction in one swipe. However, I definitely think that we should start looking at reducing it. I think it is appropriate, then, to move towards a reduction in income taxes – the crown for the crown of the money the state receives from gradually starting to remove the interest deduction – precisely for the reason that households should not be affected. I do not know whether the Christian Democrats support this principle. But I am very concerned about the parties that are pushing a reduction or a abolition of the interest deduction, and who then see that the state has received a lot of money that can be used for a lot of fun things. This money must necessarily go back to households, heads for heads, so that households do not get hit. Then the effect in the economy at an aggregate level will not be as tangible, but perhaps even the other way round. We can assume that everyone who has interest rebates has some form of loan. And most people who have loans also have some form of income, otherwise they don't usually get loans. At least then the households with large mortgages will be compensated. This must be done. We will vote against any proposal to reduce or abolish interest rebates if this money is to be used elsewhere. This money must go back to the households, crown for crown.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-159	Madam President, I would like According to the most solid studies carried out in Sweden, which show people's values and people's attitudes to different issues over time, more people are concerned about xenophobia than about an increased number of refugees in Sweden, despite Sweden's persistent attempts to paint people who happen to be born in another country and who have been forced to flee for their lives as a threat. According to these studies, there are far more people who are concerned about the climate, and one in four are concerned about social gaps. Then you are a party that taxes the sick and the unemployed, and you want to increase that penalty tax. You are making proposals that reduce the organisation of trade unions at a time when we would have to increase the organisation of trade unions. You complain about the housing shortage and see it as a reason to deny people a place to live here. But you reject any policy that would in any way increase construction. You even want to pay a fine to the EU in order to continue dumping wages with tax revenue. And those whom you formerly called greedy bungs, that is, the venture capitalists in welfare, are now your best friends. At the same time, you are pursuing a policy that scatters money over the richest. Your whole policy is therefore to express mistrust of people, to increase gaps and to turn a blind eye to the climate threats that people feel. I would therefore like to ask you, Oscar Sjöstedt: why do you want to increase the gap, and why do you want to pursue a policy that reduces trade union organisation, which dumps wages and allows venture capitalists to continue to take money out of welfare?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-162	Madam President, I would like I think Ulf Kristersson was previously into something quite clever. I am more concerned about the gap between those who work and those who do not work. That is the big gap today, that is, between those who have a job to go to and those who do not have a job to go to. There's a problem. I don't really know what Ulla Andersson is into. She claims we want to tax the unemployed. We have a rather unique model for unemployment insurance. It has more generous conditions than the government – which I assume Ulla Andersson supports because the Left Party is the government's budget co-operation party – in combination with a clearer escalation of insurance after 100 days. There is therefore a combination in the model of a high level of insurance cover, while maintaining incentives to return to the labour market and look for a job. Of course, there is no unemployed person to be taxed. There are probably hundreds and hundreds of ways to get the housing building going in Sweden. But we can be sure of one thing, namely that rent subsidies are not such a thing – to spend money on the construction companies and believe that everything is going to be great. It is EUR 5 billion a year that we need for other measures. The Swedish Democrats do not support this. We know it doesn't work. It's been tried, and it's not working. Even the industry itself doesn't want this. We say no to that, that's right.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-166	Madam President, I would like In fact, the Swedish democrats have a penalty tax on the sick and the unemployed. You believe that people who have the misfortune of losing their jobs should pay higher taxes than people who are lucky enough to keep their jobs and have the same income. The same applies to sick people and parental leave. You think that if you have the bad luck of getting sick, you should pay higher taxes than if you are lucky enough to be healthy and have a job and the same income. It's your policy. At the same time, you are doing what you can to undermine trade union organisation, and you are contributing to a policy of using tax money to dump wages. You have even gone so far as to be prepared to pay a fine to the European Union in order to continue such a policy. You reject housing subsidies even though, if you look back in history, it is true that it is a policy that has benefited housing construction. Abolishing housing subsidies means the opposite, i.e. reducing housing construction. As I said earlier, there are more people who are concerned about xenophobia than there are more refugees. There are more people who are worried about the climate threat, and there are a lot of people who are worried about the social divides. Your policy runs counter to this. Your policy is the opposite. You paint people as threats, you increase social gaps and you stand on the side of venture capitalists in welfare. I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats are a party for sale. If they are offered something good, they change their policy at once. This is what it is all about. But you never side with the most vulnerable.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-171	Madam President, I would like I'm not the one who decides how high the degree of union organization should be. The union will have to make sure to have a good offer. Then people will surely want to be there. That's not up to me. If people leave the union, I'm sure there's a reason for that, but it's not my fault if they do. If the union runs a good business, they'll probably get a lot of members. There's nothing strange. The degree of organisation of the union may have been reduced because they exclude people who are members of my party. You can think what you want, but they do. It happens strikingly often. If you're a Swedish Democrat, you get disfellowshipped from your union. This reduces the degree of organisation of the trade unions. It's not my fault. The fact that the government has been so incompetent when it comes to dealing with the three EU directives that form the basis of the bill dealing with new regulations on procurement, that it has been so incompetent in the approach that it has not involved and listened to any of the opposition parties and that it has completely ignored what the Law Council and basically all the other consultation bodies have to say, actually poses a risk that Sweden will end up in a situation where we have to pay a fine to the EU for the government's handling of the matter. It's not my fault either. I can't take responsibility for that. If the government had spoken to the opposition parties and listened to the Law Council and other consultation bodies, we would not have been in this situation. The responsibility for the government not being able to implement directives that we must introduce lies 100% with the government itself, not with me.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-174	Madam President, I would like The pessimistic law probably sees itself as having more and better reasons than for a long time to be discouraged for the future. 2016 has in many ways been a black year. Populism has reaped success. Perhaps Europe's most important political institution ever, namely our common Union, is under very severe pressure. And Britain has voted to leave the Union. Sweden's immediate environment seems more uncertain than for a long time. At the same time, we are living at a time when new technologies and services are creating new behaviours and new opportunities. All this new one also gives us new tools to bring more people than ever to prosperity. We can and we will solve the environmental and climate issue through innovation, progress and growth. There are those who do not have the power to recognize the possibilities. They are too busy dwelling on the problems. These powers must not grow so strong that they take over. Pessimism must not dominate. It doesn't create anything. It is faith in the future that creates jobs and development. Basically, it is hope, not anxiety, that gives us a world where our children are better off than we have. Sweden deserves political forces that take sides for the hopeful. Madam President, I would like The Center Party is trying to be the political force. Our budgetary option with all its proposals rests on a basis of confidence in the future and reformivism. Many today fear the change itself. In policy area by policy area, it is clear that it is easy to say no– no to proposals, no to reforms, no to change. The Center Party says yes to the same things. We know that this is the time to lay the foundations for the coming years and decades of Swedish prosperity and Swedish success. We are clear that key areas of society, including the labour market and the housing market, must be fundamentally reformed because they have stopped working. We know that it is free enterprise and job creation that is the basis for Sweden's prosperity, and that is why I am proud to represent the budget option in the Swedish Parliament that proposes the lowest taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. If we seriously want jobs to grow, we must also break the policy that means that our taxes on job creation are among the world's highest, not least for small companies – Sweden's job creators. We also draw a picture where we take new steps in the green tax exchange. It makes it more expensive to pollute nature, while the money is being diverted back into the economy – to households and businesses – by reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. We in the Center Party do not sit passively when we see how insecurity and discouragement characterize too much of our country. This is why we are pushing for more policemen across the country, better broadband and mobile coverage, and a job and entrepreneurial policy that initiates job creation both in rural areas and in the suburbs of big cities. There are some things that should just work, no matter where in Sweden you are. Madam President, I would like Sweden is divided. So crass and directly both can and should be expressed. Sweden is divided. In Swedish society there is today a division that widens the distance between people. We see this in housing policy, where the insider and outsider problem is more or less cemented. We see it in the labour market, where the proportion of unemployed belonging to one of the groups classified as weak is constantly increasing. In plain text: If you are unemployed in Sweden today, you usually have weak language skills, a low level of education, a history of illness and long-term unemployment – or you have never got a foothold in the labour market at all. Of course, this means that thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in our country feel that more and more doors are closed to them. Sweden is doing well, but it does not apply to me. ..................................................... We see it in the gap between city and country – Sweden is growing, but not at a pace. We all appear under a media logic that says it is reasonable to write six times more articles about a roundabout in Stockholm being built than about the whole city of Kiruna being moved. Only today we could read articles saying that the perceived exclusion – or gulf between power in Stockholm and the individual – is much greater in rural and rural areas. This is something that we must take seriously, because it is precisely those things that have been the breeding ground for Brexit votes as well as Trumps's election victory in the United States. It may seem that these challenges are monumentally great. I would like to say in some way that the solution is relatively simple: roll up your sleeves and start solving the problems! People outside need new ways into the labour market, even those who do not have an exemplary CV to show up. Well, then we need apprenticeships, entry jobs and new ways into the labour market where you can grow into your new role. To overcome the regional divide, we must first realise what the problem is. There are several obvious cases of inhibitory rules that put an end to development and value creation. Just take the constant example of the beach shelter! Many areas are denied the opportunity to rake the manage of investment and migration simply because there is a dead hand over one of their most important resources. You can't develop. This is nothing new – we have been talking about it for a long time – but nothing happens. It is still forbidden to build along the beaches in large parts of our country, even in areas where the beaches can be counted in kilometres per person. The green industries are another example. Many entrepreneurs get on their knees, not least the dairy farmers. Then implement the Center Party's peasant package of reduced taxes and charges contained in our draft budget! The digital infrastructure is far too poor. But increase the stakes! These are just a few examples, and in all of them – whether it be the labour market or the regional divide – we see that the government is doing far too little. In some matters, it does nothing at all. Unfortunately, the low pace of reform is perhaps the main feature of the government's Löfven. This is serious, because in the vacuum that the government's non-existent proposals, initiatives and reforms leave behind, discontent thrives. Madam President, I would like Since time immemorial, we have had a conflict in Swedish politics about whether it is right or wrong to lower or increase taxes on labour. The question is simply whether we should have tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship or whether we should have tax increases on the same. The arguments put forward by the Center Party and like-minded parties are that it is right for people to retain a greater share of their salary. It creates a more robust society, and it creates opportunities for families to develop their lives as they want. The counter argument is that it is better if a larger part of power is handled within the state because it provides equivalence, and others experienced positive examples from the socialist edge. I would argue that there has been a new strong argument in the debate that we must take to heart, and that is the digitalisation and automation that is taking place and that transfers a great deal of the work that is done to some kind of machine – whether it is in a cloud, that is, in a hard drive somewhere, or whether it is actually a robot that does the work. It is a rapid transformation of the economy, and the only right now is to lower the tax burden on labour in order to save what is saved can and retain as many tasks as possible that give people goals and meaning in their lives. This is a big job, and it will take a lot of budgets. But that is clearly the wrong way to go, as the government has done, in a number of budgets slowly but surely and step by step raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. On the contrary, we must shift this down, not only because it creates better conditions for jobs and entrepreneurship here and now, but also because in the long term it is the right thing to do. Because we will not be able to do this otherwise. Sweden needs responsibility here and now, while we need robust reforms for the future. When the government fails with both and the rest of us must take responsibility for perhaps the most important of all. Sweden needs political forces that take sides for the hopeful.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-193	Madam President, I would like Climate action is progressing, and major steps are now being taken locally to reduce emissions. At national level, the government also presented a solution this week to create stable and favourable conditions for solar electricity, and much is moving in the right direction. There are certain parties in the opposition who want and are trying to find ways forward to increase environmental taxes, and the Center Party is one of those parties. Although I find it unfortunate that we are already being locked up in negative texts on future environmental taxes, such as the road toll and the air tax, I respect the fact that we have proposals on ways forward for taxes to reduce emissions. The Center Party, which has previously been categorically opposed, has now instead joined the government's line with regard to the increase in the energy tax on petrol and diesel that has been implemented. That is very good, and there are good reasons to believe that we will be able to reach a common understanding of several environmental taxes in the future. It is important that several of us are involved and show a willingness to increase the level of ambition. What I find more difficult to understand is the Center Party's priorities regarding efforts made by the government to reduce emissions locally and regionally and protect valuable nature. There we see big downsizings. I would therefore like to ask the Center Party how it might be more important to reduce the tax on those with high incomes by reintroducing the job tax credit for high-income earners than to keep efforts on the climate and environment so that the long-term planning to protect nature and local initiatives to reduce emissions can continue.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-197	Madam President, I would like What is needed – what works – in environmental policy are the right and long-term rules for a green transition, in the form, for example, of gradually increasing the taxation of environmental damage and allowing resources to go out into the economy in the form of reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. This means that the share of environmental taxes in the tax mix is increasing, which provides a fundamental incentive for a green transition. The Green Party does half the homework. Some environmental taxes are raised – some of them are good, others are less good – but the stack with increased environmental taxes is overshadowed by increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship four times as much as it increases taxes on various forms of environmental pollution. This is bad, and indeed it was when the Green Party entered the government that the Swedish emissions started to increase. This is very serious. We had to get back to the trend that existed when the Center Party had the Ministry of the Environment. Then we – year by year, slowly but surely – reduced Swedish emissions, while the economy went well. I am a little surprised that Janine Alm Ericson mentions the solar tax, because it is perhaps the most obvious example of the twitchiness and lack of seriosity that characterise parts of the government's environmental policy. While solar energy is really taking off before Sweden a world-unique tax on small-scale solar energy. It is done because of bad negotiations in both Brussels and Norway, which it blames, and then it is up to us – and not least up to the chairman of the Tax Committee, Pelle Åsling, who sits here – to lie on the government and demand answers. Now they've backed up, which is good, but we can look back on a lost year. The past year has been marked by uncertainty and a completely world-unique tax on solar energy. This is a typical example of environmental policy when it is at its worst.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-202	Madam President, I would like The image that Emil Källström wants to paint about the sun tax, and how clear the rules have been about it, is not correct. On the other hand, I think it is good that he says that long-term rules for entrepreneurship are good, so that you know how to make your investments in the future. That's where we're in complete agreement. We also think it is important that we increase the share of environmental taxes, and we are working on this. To anyone who is critical of the government's tax policy and believes that there is too little green tax exchange, I can say that it looked very different under the alliance government. I think it is a skewed priority for the future to continue with tax cuts for people with high incomes rather than implementing initiatives that we are probably in full agreement on. I also note that Emil Källström did not respond at all to my question about the own cuts in the budget in these areas. I like that the Center Party has ambitions to raise environmental taxes. But I wonder why it didn't happen so much during the eight years you ran. Could it be that it was really the Moderates who decided most about tax policy? The alliance-wide part of these budget texts states: Dependence on fossil fuels is both a burden on the environment and a safety policy risk. ..................................................... We think this is a good analysis. The Center Party's motion proposes increases in environmental taxes, which is logical from the point of view of the text. On the other hand, the Moderates are proposing that environmental taxes be reduced. I find it difficult to understand how the common approach should be interpreted. Is it the Moderates' proposal – which means cuts in environmental efforts and measures on climate change – or the Center Party's proposal that is the Alliance's common policy?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-208	Madam President, I would like I will, of course, answer the question of investment. I have said several times, not least in this chair, that the Green Party will always be better than the Center Party when it comes to making environmental policy expensive. It is true that large, costly investments are being made in the field of environmental expenditure. However, most of it goes – as Janine Alm Ericson says – to what is described as protecting forests, which clearly means that private forest owners are forced to buy land and put a dead hand over it. This means that the carbon sink that the growing and farmed forest means disappears. In fact, this is in many cases a negative addition to climate policy. We say no to that. This saves us money. Our overall efforts are getting a little smaller, but we have a better policy. It was precisely because of this that emissions were reduced when we were in power. When the Green Party took the Ministry of the Environment, this development turned towards increased emissions. This is our biggest problem now. Our biggest challenge is to turn that curve back. I'm a little surprised that Janine Alm Ericson admits that the alliance joint wordings in the environmental field are good – I leave it to the auditorium to think about who wrote them. Yet there are these concerns. I can't see it. I can only say that during the time of the alliance government we did exactly what I say. A number of environmental taxes were raised and, at the same time, we reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. The Green Party claims to be in favour of this principle. But just as the expenditure increases came under the Environmental Party, the trend of green tax exchange turned into red tax increase when the Environmental Party entered the Ministry of Finance and into the government's second house. That is why I am quite confident that we are continuing to pursue a long-term correct, consistent, cheap and effective environmental policy.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-214	Madam President, I would like The vast majority of people agree that we need more resources for welfare. We need more employees in care for the elderly so that the stress on the employees can be reduced and that there is more time for the elderly. A qualitatively improved healthcare and reduced children's group sizes in preschool and in fritis are also things that are usually lifted up when I talk to women, parents, health care workers or pensioners. In the negotiations with the government, the Left Party has achieved the greatest investment in the local government sector since this state subsidy system was introduced. This is what we, and many others, are happy about. During the autumn, the Centre Party, among other things in party leaders' debates and articles, has raised the fact that you put more than the government and the Left Party in the local government sector. I think you say it's 10 billion. However, when we look at this report, we can see that this is not true. For what you give with one hand, you take back with the other hand. In total, you can say that you add about 8 1⁄2 billion less per year to the local government sector – to our common welfare. So this is exactly the opposite of what you have said in the past. I do not know whether you have deliberately deceived the citizens, or whether you have miscalculated and that is why the school results in mathematics fell during your time in power. In that case, center math is something we really have to avoid. How has it been like this, Emil Källström? You are reducing the funding for the local government sector by approximately 37 billion over the next four years.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-220	Madam President, I would like Sometimes Members of this House really get to it. You come up with a rhetorical point and you think: "D one there, I'm going to drag it along, and it works great!" Sometimes, though, things don't go so well. I think you're gonna have to sharpen this center math thing a little bit. There's probably something there, but it didn't turn out so good right now. What is also not so good is when you do as the Left Party and its socialist friends and cut up the resources to the welfare in lots of specially-destined contributions. This is the Left Party parade branch. You get through 1 billion that will solve all the problems in all schoolyards, or all the problems in some other small part of the welfare. Problem is, this isn't working. You set off a pot. The country's 290 municipalities will sit down and write papers to apply. Bureaucrats should then read through these applications and distribute the money, and then the same trip should be made when everything should be reported. What happens then? Well, small municipalities with small administrative resources are not looking for the money at all. It's not worth the trouble. What sounds so much, a few hundred million, is nothing left of when you take it down to the relevant level – SEK per municipality, per school and per student. What we do is raise the general municipal grants. When Ulla Andersson says that she is so proud to have received 10 new billion in general contributions to welfare, it is so, as Ulla Andersson says, that we add 12 1⁄2 billion a year. Over the forecast period, there will be 10 billion more. So this is real money, not targeted. The K ommunerna can decide for themselves how the little money best solves welfare problems. It's better politics. There may be fewer headlines, but this means real changes and improvements for the local government sector.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-227	Madam President, I would like One can then say that the Center's parade branch is trying to make something appear to be something that it really isn't. You say that you are increasing funding for the local government sector, but you are not. You're taking money away from the municipal sector with the other hand. You cut feverishly into the targeted state subsidies. The table in the report shows that it is by EUR 11 billion. It is therefore 11 billion less for free mammography and for outpatient visits to older people. There's a lot of stakes that won't happen. It affects individuals out there, but of course it also affects the activities. What you are doing is reducing the funding for common welfare. You in the Alliance are also the best at reducing taxes. You have the biggest tax cuts, and then you have to cut somewhere. Then you will be happy to cut into the common welfare or save on the sick and the unemployed. That is how it is done in your budget and in your policy. I think that you are misleading the voters when you say that you are adding more money to the local government sector, because in your budget and in this report it is more than 30 billion less over the next four years. It has tremendous consequences in Hofors, Bollnäs, Edsbyn or wherever you are. I think that you should stand up for the outside too, because the voters have the right to know what policy you intend to pursue. You haven't done that, but you're trying to deceive them, I mean.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-231	Madam President, I would like This is important: I and we have never said anything but that we increase the overall contribution to the municipalities. It is therefore exactly the same line in the state budget where Ulla Andersson is so proud that she is increasing by 10 billion. I can only say here that we are spending more money. Then we remove a number of the Left Party's specially-destined small contributions because it is not well-used money. It was so clear in Ulla Andersson's line that these are things that sound good. But when you set aside a number of hundred million, at best 1 billion, that will operate and make a difference in all the county councils and municipalities in the country, it will be nothing more than press release money. The Left Party's main objective is to be able to wave a political victory. But that doesn't make any difference. What we are saying is that we are protecting the proper contributions, rather than the targeted ones, and we see that the municipalities need additional funding. But our most important promise to the municipalities will always be our employment and entrepreneurial policy, which means that more jobs are emerging, which provides more own resources in the form of job tax revenue – the absolute most important source of revenue for municipalities. That is what will always be the most important thing we do. It is true that we will never be able to compete with the Left Party when it comes to small pots of specially-destined contributions. But we will always be better at creating a breeding ground for the growth of jobs so that there will be more resources for welfare. This difference is obvious to me, and it is not something that we are in any way trying to cover up. We are clear about this – I think everyone but Ulla Andersson has understood this – and we will continue to be.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-235	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 9 so that I do not forget it. I'll start in the negative, in the dangerous, but I'll really make sure to finish positively. The dangerous thing that we see in our environment and around the Baltic Sea is, of course, Russia. With regard to Russian aggression, which led to the annexation of Crimea and the ongoing war against Ukraine, it is not difficult to imagine a scenario. We see a number of Russian threats against the Baltic countries, and it is not difficult to understand that Russian aggression against the Baltic countries can easily spill over to Sweden, and especially Gotland. That is why we Liberals have been nagging for so many years that we need a permanent military presence on Gotland. We have been mocked for a great deal, and we can take that. Now there is this permanent presence on Gotland. However, it needs to be much stronger than it is today. The entire Armed Forces need to be much stronger. It requires a substantial renovation of the Swedish defence. Today, defence expenditure is around 1.1% of GDP. It's a declining trend. On the Liberal side, we want to see a substantial increase – we have the first money for this in this budget – and in the long run we will again reach up to 2% of GDP for defence. That may sound unrealistic. It is a doubling of defence costs, but the increase will be made over several years. But remember that as late as the year 2000, we were actually at that level! Of course, there are a lot of things that need to be done in this rearmament. But one of the more important points is linked to the Air Force. Today we have about 100 fighter aircraft of the JAS Gripen model C/ D. These will now begin to be scrapped and replaced by new aircraft of the E model. The problem is that the 100 we have now will be 60 in the future. In addition, the model that we now have works very well. Some of them were delivered as late as a year ago. To now start scrapping them in order to reduce the air force is quite the wrong way to go. From the Liberals' side, we want to keep the 100 fighter planes that we have today and add the 60 to really rearrange the air force. Madam President, I would like Let me now turn to the more positive. It is true that it is based on a problem, but a problem to which we know what it is and to which we see a clear solution. When it comes to unemployment, it is very easy to get a job if you are born here in Sweden, Svenne banana is like me. At least unemployment is very low in that group, so there are not the big problems. On the other hand, in the low-skilled group, not least many refugees who arrived last year, many of whom are soon entering the labour market, unemployment is very high. But the positive thing is that we know why it's high. We have high entry wages in Sweden and it is very expensive to hire people for easier jobs. We have few simple jobs precisely because it is expensive to hire. It's enough to go to a restaurant in another country. Then you often see how much more staff you have there than we have here in Sweden, and that is because it is very expensive to employ such staff in our country. The solution is, of course, to make it cheaper to hire people, so that we create more of this kind of simple jobs. The point is not that they should work in these jobs all their lives, but it is a way into the labour market. You get a foot in the labour market and a first job, because the best way to get a job is to have a job. But if there are few such jobs and it is very expensive to hire, you don't get the first job at some point. We Liberals have a number of solutions to this. One of them is what we call starting jobs, which in short means that it is simply easier and cheaper to hire people, such as refugees, for this kind of simple job. Another important element for this type of simple job is the emergence of the collaborative economy. I will briefly try to describe what it is, even if it may be self-evident when you hear the word. Me and my wife have a little croft. In the autumn you should preferably dig the garden land there and get some new manure into the ground so that it grows better the following year. I'd rather not do it by hand, so it would be good to have a ground cutter. But it feels a little unnecessary to buy a grinder for several thousand to use it for a small garden land once a year. There are then sharing economy companies, such as one called Grannsakter, where you can check if there is someone nearby who can rent out their ground cutter. Unfortunately, I didn't find anyone, so I had to dig anyway. But that's how it's supposed to work in theory. The emergence of the collaborative economy means a variety of services. Neighborhood stuff is one thing, and it's about more highly qualified jobs. But in many of the collaborative economy companies, people do services. The most famous of these is Uber, where individuals drive other individuals in their private cars against payment. But there are lots of such companies, and they can grow quickly if we update laws and regulations so that they can grow. Last spring, Uber stopped this particular activity, Uberpop, following clear signals from the government that it does not intend to update laws and regulations so that this is allowed. It is an out-of-date and backward attitude to try to prevent this type of job or to think that it can be banned. The companies and those who do these jobs should do the right thing by paying taxes and so on, and the Liberals want to make sure that it is easy to do the right thing. We need to find new, easy jobs. But government policy makes it more expensive, not cheaper, to hire and less profitable, not more profitable, to work. In addition, they are working to slow down the development of collaborative economics companies such as Uber and others. This will make the huge problem we have today with high unemployment among many immigrants a huge problem. Madam President, I would like In 1975, a man who worked at Kodak invented the first digital camera. The Kodak chiefs thought it wasn't the future. You can understand their attitude, because the first digital camera was pretty useless. It was big, heavy and expensive. It took pictures of 0.1 megapixel, and it took almost a minute to get the pictures. The Kodak managers felt that they were in a lucrative industry and made a lot of money on camera film, so they wanted to continue to bet on that. In 1995, one could still think that Kodak chiefs were right. Kodak then had 140 000 employees around the world and had a turnover of SEK 250 billion. It was tough on pretty good with camera footage. But in 2012, Kodak went bankrupt. The digital cameras took you out of business. I would say that Sweden is in the same position now as the Kodak managers were then. They missed the technological growth, and they missed Moore's team, which says the processing capacity doubles every two years. At first, the doubling does not look so much to the world. If you put it on a long line year after year, it doesn't happen much at first. But just like a hockey club, it went a long way up, and digital cameras quickly became much better, cheaper and easier to use than other cameras. Sweden is in this position now. We can choose to bet on the camera film, as we have, and hope it works. Or we choose to invest in all the companies that are emerging linked to digitalisation. We have a number of successful start-up companies in Sweden. However, it requires reforms. It is not possible to sit still and slow down Uber and other companies that are emerging, because these are the new jobs. But if we make these reforms, I am convinced that Sweden has enormous opportunities and that Sweden's best time is yet to come.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-260	Madam President, I would like There are positive elements to the Liberals' budget exercise, including an ambition and the idea of raising environmental taxes. I welcome that. We have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look at the distribution policy effects of the Liberals' biggest budget effort, where around 20 billion are used to reduce income tax. It turns out to be a surprisingly poor distribution policy. The winners are rich people who live in Danderyd with an income of over SEK 600 000 per year. Liberals also used a slogan for the election of feminism without socialism. It was a little fun, and I was hoping to see some exciting suggestions. Instead, it feels like feminism without feminism because the difference between women's and men's income increases by an average of SEK 2,200. So it's going the wrong way. In addition to being a bad policy on economic equality, it is also a policy in which it is saved throughout the country to transfer money to people living in big cities and rich coronary municipalities. In Danderyd and Lidingö, the average income increases by over SEK 15 000 and SEK 10 000 per year respectively, while the population of municipalities such as Älvdalen, Ljusnarsberg and Dorotea has an average increase of less than SEK 1 000. Even there, only the richest get paid. Do the Liberals really think it is a balanced policy for greater equality and for the whole country?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-265	Madam President, I would like These are good points of view. This means that there is always a difficult balance between how to adapt a tax system so that it is done in the best possible way. Let me make a few reflections on this. You call them high-income people. But who are they now called high wage earners in Sweden? For example, it is a primary teacher at a primary school or a teacher who has become a principal. They have to start paying government income tax and, in some cases, military tax if they become senior executives. They're cops. It is ordinary people who work around Sweden. There are hundreds of thousands of people you call high-income people. Why are we doing this? Because we think it should pay to educate and to work hard. We have felt that for a long time, and we believe that it is a recipe for the future – also for the new jobs to emerge. I talked about simple jobs, which allow people to enter the labour market. There is also another type of job, where high-income people with higher education work. It is about the successful Swedish technology companies that are emerging. In order for it to be worthwhile to train and invest in such companies and get that kind of job to grow, we cannot have the world's highest marginal taxes. Sweden recently passed through Aruba, when you raised taxes. There are some other competitive advantages, such as the weather. We compete with our weather and the world's highest marginal tax. I don't think that's gonna work.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-270	Mr President, I would like to It can be said that there will be a little higher tax for those who are by far the most well paid in several different professions. What I was talking about was that it is those who have annual income of over SEK 600 000 that can to some extent be counted as high earners. There are not only distributional problems with the tax cuts in Liberal policy. A major concern is also that the expensive and misallocated tax cuts should be paid in some way. What gets to take the fall is, among other things, measures for climate and the environment. Local initiatives to reduce emissions and efforts to protect and protect valuable nature are removed and other public investment across the country is withdrawn. In what way do tax cuts for the richest, which are paid with a substantially reduced climate and environmental budget, help to reduce emissions so that we have an environment that we can conscientiously hand over to our children and grandchildren?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-273	Mr President, I would like to Let's start with the precious nature. In fact, we are adding more money than the government to that very thing. But just as Janine Alm Ericson was in the debate with Emil Källström, we do not believe that all these measures are so very effective. It looks good to put them out, but it's not much money and it doesn't provide much efficiency. What we believe in is green capitalism and green tax exchange. There, a great deal has slipped in the Swedish debate, not least because of the Green Party, I would say, so that green tax exchange has become red tax exchange. The very thing about a green tax shift is that you raise taxes on things that are environmentally dangerous. We do not want large CO2 emissions, for example, and there are some chemicals that we want to get rid of and therefore phase out. Then we raise taxes and make it expensive to use them. This means that companies are gradually moving away from those areas. That's one part. In order to get the tax exchange green and not red, it is then necessary to reduce some taxes as well, for example these income taxes that you are so opposed to lowering. That's exactly what we're doing. We make it cheaper for companies to hire people, for example. Otherwise, there will only be tax increases all the time. Speaking of distribution policy, it cannot mean raising taxes for everyone at all times. Then we won't get any growth from new jobs. It is really, really bad distribution policy, and it is also bad environmental policy.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-277	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs more trust and security. The government borrows large sums in good times, underfinances its budget and breaks the fiscal framework – and worse, it does not make the reforms needed to meet society's challenges. It is a bad thing in itself, but I am afraid that the red-green policy is therefore also making larger withdrawals than deposits into the community trust account. Sweden's hidden access, trust, must not be taken for granted, not least because trust is an important lubricant in the economy. Now the distrust is growing. We can't and shouldn't blame the government for everything, of course not. Misbelief against the other is fomented by those who want to polarize, drive apart, spread myths and lies and disinformed. Together, we must work hard to counter this. But mistrust spreads and trust also falters about how Sweden develops, about how the public performs its welfare mission and about our economy. For it is easy to get hold of mistrust when people feel that life chances are deteriorating, when the thresholds to the labour market for some have become sky-high walls that strongly prevent integration, when the absence of equal care is intrusive, when entrepreneurs face new charges instead of reliefs, when refugee children are kept separate from their parents, when concerns about caring are there when I need to, and if I myself have an influence on my life when I am at my most fragile, when residents in vulnerable suburbs are affected by criminal gangs and when the police are going through what is increasingly proving to be a crisis. Sweden needs more trust and security. That is why we need a policy that promotes strong families and a civil society in which trust can grow in deeper relationships between people. Because it is not primarily through laws and governance documents that we create trust. No, it is founded when we feel love and get seen and respected in union with others in family and friends, where we can learn right and wrong and develop solidarity with the victim. But trust is also fostered by a policy that protects the security that comes from health care when we need it, that older people can age in dignity and that the police come when we call. Trust is promoted by a policy that enables everyone to get a chance to work to 100% of their ability. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a Christian-Democracy budget, and I support the Christian Democrats' reservation of 5 and 10. So what do we want to do differently? Firstly, we want to address the crisis in the police more quickly and with more force. It should not be a luxury to know someone who knows someone where crimes have actually been prosecuted. That'll take 2,000 more cops and more. It takes time to educate them. That is why we are proposing an additional 500 civil servants in the Police Office as early as next year. We also allocate funds so that the police can have a better salary structure to ensure that ambitious police officers see their efforts pay off. We also propose means so that the police can be better equipped for terrorist threats with training, equipment and an expanded task force. Secondly, we have real reforms that improve and refine health care and care. More resources, above all by more people working and paying taxes, are good. But the challenges of welfare are not primarily met by health care being free of charge for directors and members of parliament. We do not face the problems by stopping entrepreneurs and their ideas for better care, but we face them with reforms. We face the problems of reform – as a national dementia plan to combat dementia and its consequences, such as geriatric centres for better treatment of elderly diseases, as local dignity guarantees to avoid compromising the dignity of the care-needed and as the repatriation team to reduce unnecessary suffering by ensuring that follow-up and rehabilitation work. We face the problems of better meals and more community in care for the elderly and a retirement home guarantee so that the elderly can decide for themselves when to move to a retirement home. We do this to provide security and dignity and to drive the loneliness that often crawls along the walls of the home that has become cold on the run. All these reforms for trust and security in elderly care are lacking in the government budget. We also want to give people without care training the chance to work with care-related services, such as cleaning and patient transport, in the care services team. It's real jobs that give more people the chance to work and improve health care. We want to shorten the queues to BUP, and we want to strengthen student health even more so that first-line psychiatry becomes more powerful. We make sure that it pays to train as a midwife or specialist nurse. We see that the cue billion must be reinstated. If you specialise in S-marked county councils, this becomes extra clear. It also becomes clear that today's 21 county councils are unable to develop all the increasingly high-tech abilities of healthcare. We need the state to take responsibility for the advanced hospital care because the price for not doing so is high. Then it is where you live that determines which care you receive, and we cannot accept that. It is a major reform, but we can take steps now. We are therefore allocating funds to enable the state to take greater national responsibility for medicines as early as next year. Trust that care exists when we need it must be strengthened. Thirdly, we want to invest heavily in the finances of pensioners. An economically vulnerable single-person, usually a woman, with BTP gets with our budget 500 SEK more a month. What a difference it makes to avoid choosing between grandkids' Christmas presents and a new winter coat! We propose a substantial step to remove the difference in taxation between pension and labour income. We do so with equal taxation up to just over $15,000 a month. Of course, we remove the special salary tax for older people introduced by the government and propose double job tax deductions from 64 years of age so that more older people find it worthwhile to work and contribute their skills. Fourthly, we are investing heavily in families with children. We strengthen freedom of choice when children are small. We are expanding RUT, and with our policy, every job for all parents – no matter how little t or big it is – is worth 500 SEK more a month. It strengthens families' finances – in relative terms, most for those who earn the least. And it becomes more profitable to go from no work to every job. In this way, more children will see their parents go to work. For the financially vulnerable families with children, we increase the housing allowance by between SEK 350 and 600 per month. That's how we strengthen the security of the families. Mr President, I would like to Fifthly, we must ensure that the job opportunities are there for everyone. We must ensure that our entrepreneurs have good conditions instead of what is now constantly popping up new threats and new charges that are at risk of affecting their efforts. When the government seems to have given up on job opportunities for everyone, when it has abandoned its objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate, and when it refuses to see the problem of high entry wages and high standards that exclude people with lower qualifications, we propose strong RUT expansion, simplified labour market policies and introductory positions, i.e. jobs with full employment protection from the outset, but slightly lower entry wages combined with training at work, without hassle and government approval. We propose this, combined with double job tax deductions for young people, new arrivals and long-term unemployed. So we can create a labour market where more people get the chance to work to 100% of their ability. Mr President, I would like to At Skogskyrkogården there is a lookout point called Almhöjden. Up to it is a long staircase. It is designed so that the higher up you come and the more strenuous it is, the lower the ladder becomes. It is one such Sweden, with such stairs, I think we need. It is a good picture in which we strive to reach places where we can look out and see longer and where we develop as individuals and as a society, but where each step is not one millimeter higher for each of us than that we are able to take that step. It is a society with more trust and security and a society where no one is held back and no one is left behind.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-298	Mr President, I would like to Now I had to show Jakob Forssmed to the right chair, and I am so happy to help a Christian Democrat find his way! I appreciate that Jakob Forssmed talks so much about the Christian Democrats' policy. Not all bourgeois parties have talked about their policies in this budget debate. Perhaps the Moderates are the party that has spoken least about its own politics. I also appreciate Jakob Forssmed's talk about trust in society and the importance of knowing trust in each other. It's something I appreciate very much. Much more would be needed in the political debate, because I think that is at the heart of much of the problems we are experiencing today. But enough praise – you might get too cocky otherwise! Now, instead, I would like to comment on the content of your budgets. The Christian Democrats say you are a party for the children and the family. However, if you look at your draft budget, you can see that it is a long, long list of savings. You reject the 10 billion in general state grants for health care, school and care. You reject the money to increase the construction of rental apartments at reasonable rents, that is to say, you make it more difficult for families with children who need a larger apartment. You reject free dental care for up to 23 years, even though we know that preventive work produces good results. You reject free mammography for all women, even though we know that it is also important and preventive and that it means increased participation. You reject the increase in maintenance support despite the fact that single parents are the group that has fallen behind most economically over the last 20 years. You say no to free summer holiday activities despite the fact that this would increase trust in society and give more children more fun summer holidays. You say no to the rehabilitation of children's school environments and you save on the sick and the unemployed. Do you think it is a policy that increases trust in society? I don't think so.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-302	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate that Ulla Andersson led me to the right speaker's chair. Of course, I also appreciate the praise. But if Ulla Andersson leads me more in a political direction, I want you to call me and warn me of bad influence. I am not surprised that Ulla Andersson is critical of our policy. It is based on people getting to work. We believe that the biggest gap in Sweden is between those who have and those who do not have a job. That is why we propose double tax deductions for newly arrived people, who are young or who are far removed from the labour market to make it easier to enter. We feel that it is especially important for children to see their parents go to work, and so we say that for parents each job should pay better and give 500 kroner more, no matter how big or small it is. That's something for Ulla Andersson to vote for, isn't it? It goes to the families with children she was worried about and wondered if they would get winter clothes or not. We propose an increased housing allowance for the most economically vulnerable families with children by SEK 600 if you have three or more children. That's something for Ulla Andersson to vote for, isn't it? Or why not vote in favour of a budget that proposes that a single woman with a low pension and BTP receive 500 kroner each month? It's missing in your option. There's no improvement. But Ulla Andersson is right that with a budget in balance – more than 11 billion better than that of the government and the Left Party – we do not accept the large tax increases on jobs and companies. We cannot match every bet that the Left Party wants to make in each position. You have no limit on how much tax you can spend on work. Finally, with the policy of the Left Party, there will be cuts left to be distributed. That is the whole problem with your option. You need constant corrective measures to ensure that we do not end up in a situation where there are only cuts left.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-307	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if Jakob Forssmed has missed it, but when we had a higher tax rate we also had a higher employment rate. I would also say that we had security systems that kept this country together much better and created trust between people that we have unfortunately lost some of today. You are cutting money that, in addition to increasing trust and security in society, would provide more jobs. 10 billion more to care, school and care could mean that we can hire more teachers and more nurses – more who have time for the elderly or see each individual child in preschool, fritis or school. We could use the money for investment support to hire more people who build housing. What a productive investment! But you reject these investments. You reject the most effective means that have existed historically to get housing started. It's an investment that would create a lot more jobs. You are putting forward a policy that, in the Christian Democrats' view, if you have the misfortune of becoming ill and unemployed, you should have higher taxation. I think this is an unreasonable way of looking at man. You don't get sick because you want to, and you don't get unemployed because you want to, but because you have the bad luck to be. Should you be taxed for this? I think that is completely unreasonable. I'd like to increase the guarantee pension. But just as you and the Christian Democrats have not put the bourgeois parties on it, I have not got the government parties on it. You're in the Pensions Group. We do not because we are not behind the pension system – what makes people who have worked all their lives poor. I hope you'll have more people with you there. I intend to do what I can to increase the guarantee pension but also to change the pension system, because it really needs to change. As I said, you save people and thereby reduce trust in society.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-313	Mr President, I would like to Then Ulla Andersson has the chance to vote for a budget that gives 500 SEK more to the economically vulnerable elderly who have BTP. That is what it means if you vote for the Christian Democrats' budget. Ulla Andersson is standing here saying that we want lower taxation on labour and that it is deeply offensive. That is what you yourself propose in the budget you have put forward and which the Left Party is behind! It means job tax deductions, and the job tax deduction is available to make it pay better to work. I assume the Left Party is behind the budget that you are standing here attacking. If so, it is welcome, because it would be the first job reform that the Left Party is behind. That would be news. Let's talk about the municipal grants. We believe that we need a job policy to meet the increased challenges that exist in the municipalities around welfare. We invest 14 billion more than the government does in the health and social care area for four years in targeted initiatives. But it is right that Ulla Andersson says: We also say no to the general money. You can listen to what the Swedish Minister for Finance said when she was on Agenda a while ago. Then she was asked: Will there be more such general grants for municipalities? What she said was quite interesting: it must be remembered that it is absolutely crucial for municipalities to develop employment – if there is a job and if there are job reforms. Therefore, it becomes particularly problematic that this budget is clinically freed from precisely job reforms. That is not how we will meet the welfare challenges, that is not how we will meet the integration challenges and that is not how we will meet the additional challenges. To do this requires more people going to work.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-318	Mr President, I would like to Recent times, as noted earlier, have caused turbulence and anxiety. The UK referendum on withdrawal from the EU and the election of an unpredictable and protectionist American President involve, among other things, economic risks. A world that is buying less and where countries are closing up more and more – everything else as well – can never be good for a small, open economy like the Swedish one. Moreover, recent events come on top of a rather weak recovery in the European economy and in the world economy. Sweden differs with better economic development than many comparable countries, most recently described in the International Monetary Fund's review of Sweden. Even the coming years seem to be able to deliver decent and stable economic growth in Sweden, not least because the government's economic policy provides good conditions for continued good development. With the government's budget, we are adding new stones to the Swedish welfare building to strengthen a social model that better than most people provide the conditions to create security, confidence in the future, work and well-being for people living in our country. In a troubled world, we strengthen Swedish competitiveness and the foundation for continued good growth. We are building economic security and resilience by removing in principle the large government deficits that the government inherited and turning them towards balance and surplus. At the same time, with resources for housing construction, for the police and security police and not least with 10 billion more for school, elderly care, preschool and medical care, we make Sweden safer, safer and more robust. Mr President, I would like to For a social democrat, of course, the care of good and stable public finances is something fundamental and something that is not neglected. Strong public finances that are well managed are a guarantee of long-term stability and security in welfare management. When times deteriorate, when something unforeseen happens, stable finances can act as a cushion, a shock absorber that bridges over without the need for jobs or welfare. A tight fiscal policy and a withdrawal of cost control in our important social systems have had an impact and are now also delivering stronger public finances in the future. Another reason for this is the development of the labour market. More and more people go to a job every morning. Fewer and fewer people are unemployed. Since the government took office, more than 100 000 more people have a job to go to. It is particularly gratifying that youth unemployment has decreased. The employment rate is not only one of the highest in Europe, but also continues to tick up. At the same time, there are many people who do not get the chance to make a living on their own jobs even though there are a record number of job vacancies. The answer to this challenge – to the recruitment gap in the Swedish labour market – is spelled primarily education and efforts to increase skills. The more than one hundred thousand job vacancies currently available in Sweden are not added because the salary is reduced for those who already earn the least or that the tax is reduced for those who already earn the most. On the contrary, it clearly shows that Sweden needs the knowledge boost that the government has launched and now wants to further strengthen. The aim is to encourage more people to move from unemployment to studies that provide a job that fills a vacancy. The aim is to reduce the time to work in Sweden by means of increased start-up efforts. Together with more training places and not least an expanded professional adult, this represents important steps towards closing the recruitment gap, reducing the educational deficit and getting more people to work. For those who still find it difficult to get a job, we also strengthen efforts such as extra services in welfare, development employment in Samhall, wage subsidies and modern preparedness jobs in the state. In Sweden, everyone will have the opportunity to contribute to their own livelihood and to the construction of society with their work. But security is not just about livelihood. That people should be and feel safe, especially where they live, is a fundamental task for the state. The fact that many people are victims of crime every year, and too many people feel the fear of being victims of crime, we all notice. Moreover, insecurity and crime are the hardest hit in areas where people's living conditions are the most difficult from the outset. The government's strengthening of the police force by 2 billion by 2020 is a clear answer to that. The additional resources for the Security Service are particularly important for strengthening the fight against terrorism. Mr President, I would like to One of the main reasons that I believe the voters had for voting away the bourgeois government was the increasingly widespread feeling that something was breaking. Despite – or perhaps because of – any new tax cuts, many people could not get rid of a moaning concern about whether health care really can be counted on when they need it, whether children really learn enough in school, which they clearly did not get, whether they have enough time with their teacher, or whether the care of the elderly will really measure up when that time of life comes for themselves or for a loved one. Now the government has chosen a different direction. It has chosen to eliminate major tax cuts and instead makes major investments in the construction of Swedish society. It is about strengthening and developing the Swedish model, where education, healthcare and care of good quality are distributed according to needs. Everyone who pays money to the welfare should also feel safe in that welfare gives back when the need arises. Therefore, the government's budget with 10 new welfare billions is an important measure to close part of the confidence gap that exists between citizens and welfare. What we are proposing is the largest single increase in general state subsidies since the introduction of the system. It comes on top of targeted investments in more teachers at school, in increased teacher salaries, increased staffing in care for the elderly, increased resources for municipal social services, housing construction and health care. The budgetary options put forward by the opposition show that our choice is far from self-evident. Against the government's strengthening of welfare stands an opposition that wants to return to a policy where major tax cuts undermine welfare and people's trust in society and thus also one another. It is an opposition that, with a little different strength and a little different orientation, weakens the security system, proposes savings and cuts in welfare and also resumes the pursuit of the sick but does not want to do anything about the pursuit of profit in welfare. It is a Sweden where rents will be higher but wages will be lower. How such a policy can increase security and strengthen confidence in the future in Sweden, I find it really difficult to understand. That has not been proven so far in this debate. Mr President, I would like to The budget presented by the government, whose framework we are about to decide on today, is another step in the construction of Swedish society. Sweden made a fantastic journey in the last century from being one of Europe's poorest countries to being one of the richest in the world. This was thanks to individual initiatives and geniuses, but also to a determined political effort to create a model of society that is fairly well known in the world as one of the better ones. Most often it was done in hard political battles, but also with collaborations and agreements. Today, too, we are still prepared to reach out and sit down and discuss, just as we have done in terms of defence, energy policy, grades or the fiscal framework, to mention some important agreements this parliamentary term. Hard fight and cooperation, both needed in a viable democracy. Mr President, I would like to Finally, although much remains to be done, although many problems still remain to be resolved and many reforms are waiting to be presented and pushed through, we see how the policy is delivering results. More people are working. Fewer are unemployed. We have secured order at our borders. More housing is being built now than in decades. Thanks to a tight and responsible fiscal policy, Sweden can now make the biggest strengthening of welfare while moving from large deficits, which the government inherited, to balance and surplus. This is how the country is built, and eventually it will build confidence in the future. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-336	Mr President, I would like to First of all, and most importantly, I will do what I should have done when I was in the second speaker's chair. I support the Center Party's reservation 3 and 8 respectively. Secondly, and this is also important, I have some reflections on a few things that Fredrik Olovsson said in his speech. I reacted to him saying that he and his party lay stones on the construction of society. The problem is that it places stones on the burden that was already under pressure, and not least job creation, small and growing companies experience. Fredrik Olovsson said he wants to stop the recruitment gap. But the problem is that companies stop recruiting because of government policy. What other analysis can we make when we see a government that, for the first time, challenges ownership through its great regulatory spirit? This creates great uncertainty in entire industries. I am thinking above all of welfare companies but also of the successful RUT sector, which has given so many jobs. Now it is more or less still, because of the uncertainty created by the government. Fredrik Olovsson also returned several times to do things until 2020. Police or railway infrastructure investments shall be carried out by 2020. That's code words for the next term of office. Both when it comes to investments on the railway as well as the addition that our police need here and now the government says that you should do it, but only in 2018 – 2019, i.e. after the next election when another and better government, hopefully and probably, has taken over. It is good that the government wants to make those efforts. But why wait until after 2018?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-341	Mr President, I would like to We are already making huge investments next year in more jobs and better welfare. When it comes to the police, to take an example that Emil Källström raised, we think it is reasonable that the police first use the entire grant that we have already provided, and that they have not spent, before they receive additional money. Emil Källström also knows very well why we are all talking about four years. That is the perspective we all have in the budgets. It is not just the government parties that have it. In the last shift, we also heard what the Center's policy would mean for four years. That's how we compare our options. I think that's reasonable. I find it hard to understand why it would be wrong to continue investing to reduce the recruitment gap. When I meet companies, but also public employers, everyone says the same thing: This is the major threat to continued growth and reduced unemployment. Then we must ensure that people can acquire the skills needed to take those jobs. A very large part of the government's policy is to close the recruitment gap, reduce the educational deficit that we have in Sweden and ensure that we can really continue to grow. That's the direction. I would like to ask a question to the centre party, now that he is standing here. A great many jobs, not least in municipalities and county councils, are threatened by the policy presented by the Center Party. There are savings in healthcare of 1.6 billion, in elderly care of 2.3 billion and in school of 1.4 billion. The net impact on municipalities of the Center's policies is significant savings. Please tell us how there will be more jobs of reductions at school, elderly care and in health care, Emil Källström!
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-345	Mr President, I would like to If Fredrik Olovsson had been interested in the answer to that question, he would reasonably have asked me for a reply in my speech. But I can repeat what I said to Ulla Andersson. Another way to get an answer could also be to listen when I answered exactly that question in the line shift with Ulla Andersson. We increase the general, correct, contributions to welfare – municipalities and county councils. Fredrik Olovsson beats his chest for an increase of 10 billion. In our budget we have an increase of 12 1⁄2 billion per year. But we also withdraw a number of special contributions to county councils and municipalities, because they do not have an effect. We use these resources to reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Our most important promise to municipalities and county councils and to Swedish welfare will always be that we have the best job policy. It leads to the most hours worked and to the most people going to work and paying taxes to municipalities and county councils. That was the answer to that question. It is clear that, as Fredrik Olovsson says, we compare our budget options over a number of years. It is perfectly reasonable to look at how policies would operate in the longer term. But this can't mean that all the investments you want to make are placed in the last years of the forecast period, 2018 and 2019 in this case. It doesn't make sense. On the contrary, other parties, the Center Party and our alliance friends, are ensuring that the police, the railway infrastructure and many other areas receive additional support and reinforcements here and now. It is here and now that we need more security. It is here and now we have to take care of our bridges and railways that are rusting. The government obviously sees the same problem but chooses not to prioritise this in the near future. It is very ominous for Sweden. It also means that when the efforts actually take place, it will be an alliance government that implements them. The government won't take the chance.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-351	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Emil Källström has good confidence and is sure how the next election will go. It's never me. It sounds strange that 10 billion more for welfare – to work, school, elderly care and health care – would not be investments to be made next year, that they would be made in the future. They will be made next year, and they will continue to apply for the rest of this period. I would like to be there when Emil Källström will tell his centre party municipal council about the financial transaction he has made. It would be exciting to hear if any of them were to go on that rhetoric. I don't think so. They know that if they get money from one hand and it disappears more from the other, they get less overall. And with the Center's policy, there are many billions needed for care for the elderly, school, housing and health care. There will be fewer jobs. This is money that goes to the whole country, to Vindeln and Hedemora, and not only – as when the Center Party ruled – to the richest Stockholm municipalities through a Stockholm billion. It is about 10 billion to the whole of Sweden instead of 1 billion to the richest municipalities. There is a difference between regional policy and regional policy.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-355	Mr President, I would like to This is the end of the West as we know it. The alarming words are Carl Bildt. They are dramatic but truly reflect what many people feel, now that a completely unpredictable man is going to be President of the United States. Many throughout the world are truly troubled. How will what we believe in be possible – peace, tolerance, consideration, equal rights for men and women, a halt to climate change and environmental degradation and jobs and opportunities for all? All countries of the United Nations have agreed on the new Sustainable Development Goals, Agenda 2030. Yet, in many countries, politics is going the opposite way, in Europe and, apparently, in the United States as well. We can't have that. We are the first generation to eradicate poverty and the last generation to stop climate change. Then it wants us to take responsibility and do it. On my travels in the country and when I'm home in Alingsås, I meet people who feel that worry. They also worry about rural jobs, housing shortages, buses and trains that do not come and schools that do not have room and energy to give all children the same chance. They wonder how all newcomers will be able to enter society, how violence and hatred will be rejected and what politicians are really doing. The rest of you in this House will surely face the same issues. And we have a duty to give them sensible answers. We will explain how our policy will provide solutions. That is how we defend democracy. The political discussion must not be about blacking out each other or spreading lies. As dark images spread, anxiety increases, and distrust of society grows. I believe that the lack of real dialogue is the greatest threat to peace and economic development today. Mr President, I would like to In the budget that we have today to decide on the framework, there are the government's answers to many of the questions that people in Sweden are asking. It contains policies for building a community where there is room for everyone. Sweden is in many ways a good country to live in, but there are injustices and abuses to correct. Young people who have not finished high school and newcomers find it harder to get a job. Many older people live on a very low pension. Those with low income and education are at risk of being treated less well. Then it can be nice to recall that Sweden is still number one in the EU in terms of social justice. This is shown by a German study measuring poverty, employment, education and health. In this measurement, Sweden has expanded its management over the past few years. It shows that our government is making a difference and is heading in the right direction. Of course we can't settle down with that. In this budget, the government comes up with more proposals to increase justice and reduce inequalities. Those who earn the most pay a little more tax. Those with sickness and activity benefits receive a financial contribution. The 10 welfare billions provide better conditions for school, care and care for the elderly. The school introduces a reading-write-count guarantee so that all children will bring these important conditions with them even when they finish grade 3. There will be more places in teacher training and more staff in both school and preschool. All schools are supposed to be good schools. Today, over 100,000 job vacancies are waiting to be filled. Yet there are many who go without work, and that must change. The government creates more places in different adult education. In addition, internships are being set up for newcomers and several different fast tracks for those who have experience from different professions where there is a shortage of people. Demand for labour will continue in the future. This is due, among other things, to the ageing of the Swedish population. Arbetsförmedlingen and SKL have said that it takes at least 100 000 more people in Sweden per year to pass school, health care and long-term care. New arrivals offer an opportunity to keep Sweden strong in the future. On the contrary, other countries with fewer new arrivals are seeing their economies stagnating. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is already one of the world's most equal countries, but there is still much to be done. As long as men expose women to violence, as long as women receive less care, as long as women's work pays less, as long as women do a greater part of the work that pays no salary at all and no pension points, so long as the work for equality has to continue. The budget shows in black and white that the economic differences between men and women are narrowing thanks to government policy. It is moving in the right direction, even if it does not always go as fast as we would have liked. The government also recently presented a national strategy to combat men's violence against women. Over SEK 900 million is invested in prevention in four years. The goal is that the battle should never be dealt, that the rape should not take place. However, the government also wants to review the penalties for honour-related violence and provide better support for women who are victims of violence. That's why women's shelters and crime victims' shelters get more money. Mr President, I would like to In too many debates in this House, we in the Green Party are the only ones talking about climate and the environment from this pulpit. It is strange, especially when you think that it is precisely those questions that the Swedes worry about most. It is 89 percent who are concerned about environmental degradation and 85 percent about changes in the earth's climate. There are more than those who are concerned about unemployment, increased numbers of refugees or organised crime – to give just a few examples. And anxiety has a real basis. The message of nature itself cannot be misinterpreted. The ice at the poles melts. We get more and more extreme weather events like drought and rain. The sea level is rising and the seas are warming up, floods are becoming more frequent. Plant and animal life is changing. But what can you do? What changes in our own way of life must we make to curb climate change? Many people are also concerned about this. Should the petrol be really expensive? Shouldn't you be allowed to drive a car anymore? Shouldn't you eat meat? How expensive should electricity be? Are you even supposed to be able to live in the countryside? One of the most important objectives of government policy is that it should be easy to do the right thing, for the climate and the environment. It will be cheaper and easier to choose the best option. Therefore, the government invests several billions in climate work at the local level, which can be about switching to biofuels, reducing its energy consumption or setting up charging poles. Therefore, the government invests in train maintenance and in public transport. Therefore, it will be cheaper to repair bicycles, shoes, clothes and washing machines. The government's climate investments during this term of office are so far at SEK 25 billion. Climate change is an opportunity for a better life for all of us, not a sacrifice. Mr President, I would like to There are many who are concerned about increased gaps in society, for a Sweden that drifts apart, because the countryside is left to its fate and because some suburban areas in the big cities are dangerous and insecure. There are great challenges here. Sweden should be safe for everyone. In rural areas as well as in the suburbs, there is a need for confidence in the future and community. And there are many people who work hard for it. Already in 2001, my parliamentary colleague Marco Venega was involved in starting the Brobyggarna project in the suburb of Brandkärr in Nyköping. With the school as a base, he arranged summer jobs for young people and strengthened contacts with police and social services, so that everyone could work together to counteract segregation and provide more young people with opportunities for jobs, education and hobbies. With Brobyggarna as a model, the government is now investing in a reform programme to highlight socially vulnerable areas around Sweden. With money from the budget, there will now be broadband to more people in rural areas. The railways are being upgraded and public transport is receiving increased support, both in large cities and in rural areas. The small local banks are allowed to continue to group-register for VAT. It is important, not least for entrepreneurs in the country. The government is investing money in strengthening the good initiatives and preventing hatred and violence. But also to deal with what's troubling here and now. Mr President, I would like to These are times of concern both in Sweden and in the world. Never has it been as important that we listen and talk to each other. The government has now presented a budget that we believe has answers to many of the concerns, and which builds society strongly. Other parties have different solutions. We owe it to all Swedes to make it as easy as possible to see the alternatives and to set an example with regard to the call stone. We still have a long way to go to a sustainable society for real, and that is why we in the Green Party continue to work, shape politics and take the debates that make Sweden a little better every day. That is why I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-383	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has done much to address climate issues in this country. You've been stubbornly pushing for a long time, and you'll have all the credit for that. Now you have the chance in government to realize some of what you have been talking about and pushing on for many years. Of course, you do a lot of things. However, there are some things that would be welcome now. The Paris Agreement was happily signed and approved by the Swedish Parliament. Among other things, it identifies the large subsidies for various forms of fossil fuels. In Sweden there are billions of aid, but it is also available in a variety of other countries. These fuels emit large amounts of carbon dioxide. It is not a question of criminal taxation to eliminate emissions, but of support for fossil fuels. The CO2 tax has been reduced so that it will be cheaper to use these fuels. This is also the case in your budget. In the Liberals' budget, we are removing part of the support for diesel in particular in certain sectors. The environmental partisan budget includes additional support for the use of diesel. Isn't this something you should be doing something about very soon?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-386	Mr President, I would like to The budget now presented by the government is the strongest in the field of the environment and climate that we have seen in this country for a very long time, if ever. We put a lot of power on different parts. We are taking both local, national and international climate action. Our goal of becoming one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries is to set out government policies and decisions. It is worrying that subsidies are needed in certain sectors to cope with competition. It would be very interesting to hear the Liberals and the Center Party discussing this issue. In these sectors, subsidies are seen as crucial. We hope, for example, that support for climate change and for the expansion of biogas will increase the opportunities for a faster transition. No one will be happier than us if we can back up these subsidies. However, there must be real alternatives to use.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-388	Mr President, I would like to I understand that you would rather I discuss this with someone else, Janine, but now it is your subsidies and your support for diesel that we are talking about. Of course, all this cannot be done overnight, and it would be very good if it were done internationally so that it would be competitively neutral. But we have to start somewhere. It is not enough to set a goal of becoming a fossil-free country and then continue with the stöd. You are allocating SEK 900 million of aid to diesel. The words about becoming fossil-free ring blank as you continue to support the use of diesel with tax money in your budget. This has to go, and quickly. You are certainly doing a lot of other things, as you point out, but for climate change it is absolutely most important to reduce CO2 emissions. Sweden must also carry out a green tax shift in which we tax what we want away and lower other taxes so that we get a change. This is exactly what the Liberals are doing: we are cutting taxes on labour and entrepreneurship and removing these subsidies. These are the most important measures to tackle the climate issue.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-392	Mr President, I would like to My wish was not to avoid discussing the issue but that I look forward to seeing you agree. The Alliance would like to give the impression of a common policy, but I think that in this case we will see some interesting things before what is to be presented becomes clear. Will it be the environmental policy of the Moderates, Liberals or Center Party? Much remains to be done. However, it is gratifying that the Liberals are taking up the fight for this. We have long pointed out that support and subsidies for fossil fuels are one of the things that must of course be removed before we can have a 100% renewable transport system. This is, of course, a basic bolt. On the other hand, it is not the only thing that needs to be taken into account. Just as Mathias Sundin mentioned earlier in a speech, there must be good conditions for companies to grow and develop. Too rapid a change in these aids could have led to a deterioration in the development of rural areas, among others.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-395	Mr President, I would like to Between 2006 and 2014, we saw a very encouraging development for older people's participation in the labour market. They stayed longer in work, and they wanted to contribute. Strong reasons for this were a double job tax deduction and the removal of special wage tax, which had previously affected older people in the labour market. The government, and the Green Party, have decided to reintroduce this special wage tax on older workers, despite criticisms from the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the Swedish Public Employment Service and the Swedish Pension Agency. This, of course, pushes out more elderly people – not in unemployment, because it is not visible in unemployment statistics, but in old-age pensions. It also poses greater difficulties for not least those county councils and municipalities that need and want to recruit those who may have completed their professional life so that they get back to work and can contribute to welfare. How does the special wage tax on the elderly make the elderly work, and how does it strengthen our pensions and our welfare?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-398	Mr President, I would like to It can be observed that the Christian Democrats and the other bourgeois parties constantly and each time see that tax cuts are the only true answer to all the challenges of society. I think that this issue also demonstrates this. There is no prohibition for older people, for those over 65, to remain in the labour market. You seem to think that you only want to do that if you get extra incentives and extra tax reductions or something else that is particularly good. We are seeing today that many people go back without the specific reduction for their own development and for their contribution to society when it faces major challenges. We therefore do not think that these particular tax reductions should be given priority. Instead, we give priority to raising taxes in order to invest more in common welfare. We note that the bourgeois parties still do not want to do this. But no matter how much you want, you can't build your own train path or make sure your children have their own school, but that's what we need to do with joint efforts. Then the answer cannot always be reduced taxes.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-401	Mr President, I would like to How nice that there is no prohibition for older people to work! I think that's good. But my question to Janine Alm Ericson, who criticises tax incentives, is: Does she believe in economic instruments at all if it does not matter? Perhaps we can spend any taxes on work? It was interesting that she said that this tax reduction was not a priority for the government. Then Janine Alm Ericson is looking for a tax reduction that is prioritised but can't find one. That is the problem. It is not I who spoke earlier in the debate about green tax exchange, but it has, among others, Janine Alm Ericson. Your proposal is not a green tax change. This is based on raising the tax on environmental pollution, as we Christian Democrats want to do. We want to raise it on textiles, plastics and carbon dioxide. It is also based on reducing taxes on labour and believing in economic instruments. Work should be promoted and the damage to the environment put at a disadvantage. If you go to the Forex tax exchange office and hand in your environmental taxes, they may say: Now you thought you'd get back a little reduced tax on labour, but you can't. Instead, you get a debt here, and you have to make additional payments. Such an activity would probably immediately have its permission withdrawn by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. There would probably also be a number of complaints to the General Complaints Board. This is what it looks like. But my question is simple: does Janine Alm Ericson believe in green tax exchange and that economic instruments have an impact on people's participation in the labour market?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-406	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that one should be so categorical and say that one thing will have the effect that we want and another thing does not. We see that forecasts and sure predictions have not always been correct, either during the time of the Alliance or now. It is fortunate that Jakob Forssmed is a politician and not a mind reader. I really wasn't looking into the idea of some tax bench proposals. However, I can give some now: For example, we are expanding RUT, but we are also reducing VAT on renewables. You can earn 30,000 kroner before you have to pay taxes. We have put in place a "Growth-support" for individual entrepreneurs in the first job. There are other suggestions. What I object to is that it seems to be so certain that specific money leads to the very action that is being taken. We see that reality is much more complex than that. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say that the various proposals made by the Christian Democrats for taxes to increase the circular economy are very interesting. We look forward to being able to cooperate further on them.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-410	Mr President, I would like to We were into this in a previous line shift, but I'm thinking a little bit about the solar tax, which in many ways is illustrative to this government's often choice-handed handling of environmental issues. Solar energy is Sweden's and the world's fastest growing type of energy. You just need to go into Youtube to see an inspiring video of the amazing innovations that are now emerging. With roofs that look like ordinary roofs but in fact solar panels, windows that do the same thing and batteries in the basement that are cheaper than ever, we will see a whole new energy market emerge. In the midst of this development, which is really taking off in Sweden, we heard just over a year ago, perhaps two, that the government was going to introduce a tax on small-scale solar energy. Perhaps this is not what was expected of the Green Party at the Ministry of the Environment, but that is what we were given. We were, of course, against this, but Janine Alm Ericson, the Finance Minister and many others said we had to do it. It was sometimes blamed on Norway, sometimes on the European Commission. Only a few days ago, we were told that this tax would be reduced all of a sudden. Some environmentalists tried to describe it as a political victory that they removed the tax they had introduced themselves. In addition, this would be sent to the European Commission for notification in order to completely remove the tax imposed against better knowledge. As far as I know, both Norway and the European Commission remain. The question is what really happened. Why was this tax imposed at all? What has really changed, so that it will suddenly disappear? Everything else equal is this lost year in Swedish development in solar energy.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-414	Mr President, I would like to I think we are equally pleased with the positive technological developments in the field of environmental technology. This is very good, and I think it can make it go forward incredibly much faster than any of us in this House can imagine. That is something we need to take on board in the future. When it comes to the question of the solar electricity, I was also in the last line that it is not quite as simple as Emil Källström now wants to make it seem like. The tax situation was a little unclear, and it was difficult to know. There are those who say that they were actually taxpayers even before. But there are also things that speak against it. In that situation, to act in a way that risks paying back for those who still make these investments is something that we really do not want to be involved in. It is easy for an opposition to stand and say that we should not have done this. But the responsibility would not have fallen on the opposition if those who played their part and invested heavily in solar electricity had had to pay back money. That is why the government has now come back with a proposal which means that we are going as low as possible without risking the business economy. But we also want long-term rules of play, so that we know what applies, both on this issue and on other issues where state aid rules and competition rules discourage the development of renewables that we see as necessary. With this, the government has ensured that investments in solar energy continue to be extremely profitable. In addition, investment aid has increased eightfold, and a number of other good proposals have been put forward. Barriers are being removed and the EU is working to really open this up and to welcome the deployment of renewable energy instead of, as it is today, risking being strangled.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-418	Mr President, I would like to I'm not sure if I really went on all the tours. Perhaps this could be summed up as a good thing that the government has reduced the tax imposed by 98%, but that it might have been more reasonable to put it at the minimum level from the outset. Now, after about two years, the government has said that it wants the same thing that we have always been clear that we want. You don't want this treasure at all. But it's a choice-handed approach. It is understandable that this has caused anxiety among those who are on their toes and want to invest. The only thing you can now hope for is that there will be long-term and good rules of play in the future. Then you can feel sad over the time that has passed with this uncertainty. Believe nothing but that investments in eco-smart technologies have been pushed on or at worst have not been carried out at all. Of course, when this choice-handed handling works, the result is a little worse. The result is not what is stated in our proposals and movements, but the result is what actually makes a difference in reality. What is needed is the right and long-term rules of the game. It is perhaps no coincidence that it was just when unaccustomed politicians from the Green Party and other parties were given responsibility for these issues that the Swedish emissions began to turn upwards. There's the next question. Now that we can collect some kind of victory, that we have opposed the government's solar tax, the next major challenge is to reverse the trends that mean that Swedish emissions are now increasing. Nothing can be more important. If the government succeeds in backing this challenge, too, I am prepared to give a little applause.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-422	Mr President, I would like to I noted earlier and would like to emphasise once again that solar energy has never been as profitable as it is now. This is due both to the measures taken by the government in the past and to the fact that the situation of the tax has now been clarified. Emissions growth is a serious signal indicating the need for more aggressive efforts to reduce emissions. However, it is not unique that they increase in a single quarter. This also happened during the period of the previous government. I am pleased that Emil Källström is highlighting this issue. What surprises me is the high tone towards the government. To criticise this, but at the same time to delete in principle all the government's measures to reduce emissions, of course, does not hold up. We have increased the environmental budget by 73% compared to your government time. We continue to raise taxes and put forward new proposals for environmental taxes for the future. That is something that the Center Party really should welcome, and to some extent it does, or perhaps not. So far, around 500 applications from the Climate Centre have been granted for various investments around the country in such things as biogas production, reduction of nitrous oxide, district heating and filling stations for HVO. In what way does Emil Källström and the Center Party provide compensation in their budget in view of the emission reductions resulting from all these investments? ( ANDRE VICE TALMANNEN: This question may be considered rhetorical, because Emil Källström has no more lines. )
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-426	Mr President, I would like to One day like this it seems time to recall what the eight years of bourgeois government actually meant. They left behind huge budget deficits and policies that increased income differentials. There were two major so-called job reforms. According to the Alliance, the first, the job tax deduction, was self-financed to a third. So it was a very ineffective economic policy; two thirds went instead to increase income inequality. The second job reform, reduced employers' contributions for young people, cost more than 15 billion per year, which meant between 1 and 1.4 million per job created. Often there was work in hamburger restaurants. In addition, tax revenues per capita decreased, thus breaking a historical trend. In the previous 30 years, tax revenues per capita had increased. This reduction means that there has been less money for the welfare of each of us. Mr President, I would like to When we leave our children for preschool or Fritis in the morning we should know that they are doing well, because they are the very best we have. We want to know that they have a developing environment and that the staff have time for them. If the children aren't well, we don't feel well ourselves either. And of course you want your aging mother or grandmother, who has always been there for you, to have a good time now that she can't really manage herself anymore. Care for the elderly should be able to offer security, care and time for what mother or grandmother actually needs. That's why the Left Party has driven and passed more money into welfare – to care, school and care – that will now receive a permanent reinforcement of 10 billion a year. This is the biggest investment ever since the introduction of the state subsidy system. It is really needed, because the elderly's staff are working hard, have too little time and resources for their own skills development and are driven hard by timekeeping. The financial resources are still too scarce, despite the addition of 2 billion per year to targeted state grants for staff reinforcements that the Left Party has pushed through in previous budget negotiations. Children's group sizes in preschool and in fritis are too large, although developments are now moving in the right direction. I can promise that the 10 billion will be useful, not least in health care but also hopefully in the form of improved working conditions in health care, school and care. This budget proposes reforms aimed at reducing income inequality, although the result is very little. Nevertheless, the time has come for state budgets to be presented, the aim of which was to increase income inequality, but much more would obviously have to be done to redistribute. Equality has its own value in itself. The distribution of economic resources in society affects us all. It affects investment and the outcome of the economy. For many, it is also a question of justice. A majority of the population is negative about the widening gap. But after eight bourgeois years we have a tax system that is rigged for the rich and whose purpose was to benefit them with the highest income and much capital. These were the reforms that the bourgeoisie repeatedly presented. I would have liked and we have fought for this government to do more about the injustices that currently exist in the tax system, because it would need a tax policy which itself aims to redistribute. The 10 percent richest have for a long time run from and still run away from the rest of the population. It is a development that is bad for a country's economic growth, for its health and for its security. In fact, Sweden is currently not far behind the United States in terms of the share of the total wealth of the 10 percent richest. We would have to do something really good about that. However, this budget contains a formula that improves the economy of the most vulnerable, groups that the bourgeois government has not touched a thumb to improve for; rather, they have been pursued persistently. Now comes a reform package for greater equality, which includes increased maintenance support for single parents, increased compensation for long-term ill and increased housing allowance, increased housing allowance for families with children and increased multi-child allowance and increased entitlement to part-time stamping in the unemployment fund. These are reforms that allow the single mother to buy winter boots for both the children and herself, which improve the economy of a woman who intensively pursues full-time work and who makes the sick feel somewhat improved financial security. In addition, tax evasion will be pursued intensively. They will also contribute to cancer care, children's schooling, the roads they go on and the birth and health care they use. In fact, they will contribute to the construction of society; they will not escape. The exclusion of tax evasion must be brought to an end. The bourgeois budget movements are a competition in who can lower the tax most. Of course, their great common parade is tax cuts, which are financed, among other things, by savings on the sick and the unemployed. For if the sick and the unemployed become poorer, it seems as if they – hux flux! - just get healthy and get a job. But there are also extended grants – excuse me, I mean deductions – for house cleaning and renovation of the villa's kitchen, while large reductions are made in the support to build rental apartments for reasonable rents and to build away the housing shortage. That's one way to prioritise, and that's what you do when you're a right-wing party. Although the industry does not get the necessary labour force because the unemployed do not have the skills needed, they all save on labour market policy training, as well as on higher education. It is not good for unemployment, employment, the national economy, growth or business. Liberals are proposing a sharp increase in income inequality through huge tax relief for those with the highest incomes. They are driven by the thesis, the greater the income inequality we have, the better. They benefit well-paid and high-income people, but at the expense of women. The Centre Party is the bourgeois party that, overall, cuts taxes most, and the whole is financed by large savings in healthcare and care – savings corresponding to the wages of 10 000 nurses or 15 000 nurses. But the Swedish Democrats beat them all when it comes to the volume of tax cuts. While increasing the tax burden on the sick and the unemployed, they also have the biggest reductions in the local government sector. The increased state contribution of 10 billion, the so-called welfare billions, of which we and the government propose that the local government sector be added next year and the years ahead make bourgeois parties completely different assessments. The Liberals say no, as do the Christian Democrats. They feel that welfare needs to be saved instead. The elderly care, preschool and school apparently have too much resources, according to them, contrary to what large sections of the population actually think. The Center Party is proposing savings of approximately 34 billion over the next four years. With the right we can be sure that there is always a quest back in time, to times when insecurity should prevail, income inequality should grow and germinate, people should know their place and the common society shrink – yes, unless it is for increased deductions for the richest, of course. Our ambition is an economy for all, and the budget that is now to be decided takes steps forward with increased housing construction, more resources for health care and care for the elderly, more resources for our children in preschool and Fritis, for part-time women and for single mothers and children, who will be better off, as well as long-term ills. It is a completely different direction of economic policy from that of the bourgeois parties. And yes, there is a great deal left to do, not least to create hope, faith in the future and a stable society with equality in focus. I support the proposals in the various parts of the report.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-447	Mr President, I would like to In part of this budget debate, Ulla Andersson has had a high tone with us bourgeois parties in terms of welfare. Let us therefore talk about this very thing: the most vulnerable in our society, those who depend on the LSS – that is, assistance – in their lives. These are people with different types of disabilities, who need help to survive and live a free life in Sweden. I was on Friday in Linköping and met some families who have assistance compensation, including a father who told me about his son, who has such severe mobility problems that he can not turn himself at night when he sleeps. At night they have no assistance, but it has during the day. So at night it is the parents who get to go up and turn the boy around, and it happens every two hours. He is now eight years old, and you realize that his parents have not slept a single night in eight years. Now they are in the process of reconsidering assistance. The Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan to reduce the number of hours, and we have seen in the autumn a number of consequences – some with terrible outcome – when the hours have been reduced. This is something on which this budget, on which the Left Party is committed, is based. With the tone that you, Ulla Andersson, have had in the past, how do you defend this?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-451	Mr President, I would like to I myself have friends who live in a very anxious situation with children who are multifunctional. It is a very vulnerable situation to go with that concern. The judgments that have come began to come during the bourgeois reign. We were already pushing for an investigation to be set up to see what the judges actually meant and what changes to the legislation would have to be made. We're still pushing for that. Now there seems to be something going on in the Government Office about this, but it has taken a very long time. The investigation that has been set up has, I would say, almost exclusively a focus on cost savings. This is not the way to deal with rights legislation. I therefore share that concern. That is why, among other things, we took a committee initiative to tear up the regulations to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, which you supported, but unfortunately not the Moderates, for example. We therefore did not get a majority in committee. We could have done something about this together, but unfortunately we did not succeed in doing so. While we are debating the LSS, I would like to ask the Liberals a question. If you are disabled in your family or in close proximity, you obviously think it is important that there is a well-functioning care, school and care. You are in great need of those efforts. Then why are you saving in those areas?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-455	Mr President, I would like to We don't. Ulla Andersson mentioned from the speaker earlier that we do not have the welfare billions that are in her party. We do, but they are specified to the municipalities, so that you don't just pump out 10 billion. With regard to the LSS and the support for parents, children and others, I would like to point out that in this budget we are adding an extra billion to the government in order to be able to just increase this rather than reduce the number of hours. It is quite right that Ulla Andersson says that some of the changes and reductions we now see are due to judgments in the Supreme Administrative Court. It's true that we need to grab them. But the part for which the Left Party is responsible is the budget that we are now discussing. The budget that you, Ulla Andersson, will be voting for this afternoon is based on a reduction in LSS hours. The costs of your budget are based on a reduction in this. That's why it gets a little hollow. It is great that you stand up for this, that you took the initiative in committee and that you push the government on this issue, but it is the money that is crucial. We see this in the budget.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-458	Mr President, I would like to I would like to see legislative changes clarifying what you are actually entitled to within the LSS. It is a problem today, especially in view of the judgments that have come and the time-hunting that is taking place. In the budget there are no savings on LSS, nor is there any reduction in appropriations. On the other hand, it means regulations to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency if the government has decided alone that it will be asked to reduce the number of hours. Among other things, we in the Social Security Committee have tried to do something about this, because it is a policy that we do not share. In addition to this, the Liberals save on health care, school and care. That's what your budget says. It is also very clear. You reject the 10 billion, but you do not increase the funding for health care, education and care to the same extent, so you are on a negative figure in the last row. This actually means that there will be savings in preschool, school, health care and elderly care in Bollnäs, Hofors, Nordanstig, Sundsvall or Ronneby. It has consequences for a lot of people, including those who depend on LSS. The budget we are now talking about also includes efforts to improve the labour market for people with disabilities. We raise the salary premium ceiling and also improve sickness and activity benefits, so that you get a more secure economist in, and the housing supplement is raised. I share the concerns about the LSS, and I hope that we will see a different direction in the future on government policy on these issues, because that is really needed. I hope that we will be able to do things together in that direction.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-463	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to listen to Ulla Andersson's speech. I'll spin on a little bit on our previous line change. The two job reforms in the budget – that the government leaves large parts of the job tax deduction behind and that the RUT Ulla remains – Andersson a lot of time to attacking. With your policy, there will be no job reform. It'll be something else. Ulla Andersson then talks about tax revenue. I think it is good to go to the sources, such as Statistics Sweden and the Swedish Financial Control Agency. We can agree that it is in the local government sector that most of the welfare activities are carried out. We can see that during the time of the alliance government, the tax revenues of municipalities increased both in constant prices – where they increased by almost 19 per cent – and per capita, where they increased by almost 13 per cent, according to the Swedish Financial Control Agency and SCB. Let us be clear about this. I would also like to return to what Mr Sundin from the Liberals highlighted so well, namely the LSS and the concern that is now spreading around it. We can agree that this letter of regulation is very unfortunate. Without debate, prior investigations or consultations, this mission has been addressed to its authority. But in the budget that the Left Party is now presenting, you are financing parts of the reforms you are proposing with a reduced list of LSS. There will be a reduction of 76 million next year, and then you will not make the list that is customary. In the Christian Democrats' budget there is a total of 11⁄2 billion more over the next four years going to LSS.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-469	Mr President, I would like to If we are to stick to the facsimile, I can tell you that for 30 years before the bourgeoisie came to power, tax revenue per capita increased. When you came to power, that trend broke. It was a historical trend break. Tax revenues per capita fell. It goes without saying that overall tax revenues are increasing in an economy where the population is increasing. Anything else would be a disaster. What you're beating your chest for is that there were more people in this country. I do not know how much you have contributed to this, but that is not what we are debating. Yes, the Left Party finds it problematic that we have a tax table that makes a difference to where you get your income, and we are trying to do something about it. We think it is reasonable to have equal tax for equal income. It was a principle that we had in this country before you came to power and that most people thought would apply. You wouldn't have higher taxes if you had the bad luck of getting sick, if you were lucky enough to be on parental leave, if you became retired, as we're all going to be one day, or if you became unemployed. We thought it reasonable to pay equal tax for equal income. We stick to this and try in different ways to push debate to influence it, so that there is a different direction on those issues. With regard to LSS, I would like to point out that the government's letter of regulation to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is not part of this budget. There are no savings on this in the budget. The list of LSSs is 3 crowns per hour, and the salary increases were 2.82, so a certain amount of space is created over it. We would have liked to have seen a further increase in the list. But then there is one list per hour, and you should admit that, Jakob Forssmed, and not pretend as if it does not exist, as you did in your post.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-473	Mr President, I would like to I have at least personally contributed something to population growth in Sweden in recent years.
i-a36605b918ba7e88-0	We thank you for that! ) This has required some action in different contexts. Let's get out of here. Let us talk again about the tax revenue of municipalities. Is SCB and the Financial Control Agency wrong when they say that tax revenues per capita increased by 13 per cent during the alliance period? Are they wrong or right? Next question: Do you or do you not use a reduced list when it comes to the LSS to finance the other reforms that you have bragged about in the Parliament's pulpit? It is also easy to answer.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-477	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to comment on Jakob Forssmed's family situation. But in fact – it is well known in economic policy – if the population grows, tax revenue will also increase. If you hadn't done it, you'd have been a complete failure. But the fact is that you left behind a large budget deficit. Tax revenues per capita fell, which meant that we got less per person for preschool, elderly care and health care in a situation when we actually needed more money for preschool, health care and care. I find that very problematic. During your time, it was not enough for us to have increased income differentials and fewer resources for welfare. You also pursued a policy that allowed money to flow from the tax systems of venture capital companies in the welfare sector, including in the field of assistance. In fact, very much of the money we pay, for example, when it comes to LSS but also to healthcare and care goes to private profit withdrawals, and that has never been the purpose of welfare. Welfare should not be a market, but this is a right we should all have. If we can ensure that the money goes to the business rather than to private profit withdrawals, we get more common resources to use, for example, in the case of LSS. The largest companies in the LSS, which are venture capital-owned, have huge profits. We could ensure that they go instead to personal assistance, which we all know would be more necessary. I noticed that Jakob Forssmed did not want to debate the cuts in health care, care for the elderly and school. But at least I thought I'd take this opportunity to remind you of these. Because in fact, you are financing your tax cuts with deteriorations in health care, care and education. This has consequences, among other things, for those who depend on personal assistance.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-480	Mr President, I would like to The outcome of the US presidential elections and the UK's election to leave the EU is something that we will have to live with in the coming years. It is clear that the result of the votes is disappointing to many in Sweden. It is disappointing for everyone who believes in an open society, in free trade and in equality and equality. Both campaigns have attracted strong polarisation and ominous nationalism. We also see that in the political debate, facts and analysis have increasingly been held back for empty promises and solutions without foundation. This makes it more important than ever to work to ensure that we have a good climate for debate in Sweden. It is also a question of all those of us who have the wonderful opportunity to express themselves in the public debate taking on the responsibility that falls upon us to ensure that the debate is not rejected in a balanced way. Opposition to free trade and globalisation have been present both in the election movement in the United States and in the election movement in the United Kingdom. Maybe it's not that strange. Globalisation and free trade have long improved the living conditions of a great many people, but in some countries the benefits of globalisation have been distributed far too unevenly. In the United States, for example, real income for 90 percent of the population has not increased since the 1970s. Then it is perhaps no wonder that large groups feel: this internationalisation and globalisation is not for me and my family. Perhaps it is not strange, above all, when they see that other people in the same country have been doing much better. Over the same period, the richest percentage in the United States has seen their income increase by 200 percent. The richest tenth has seen its income double. This is something that international organisations have begun to pay attention to. The OECD and the International Monetary Fund are now talking about governments having to work harder to make growth more inclusive, so that all people can benefit from the profits. Hearing such arguments from the international institutions, which may not have historically been champions of progressive politics, is something new. The discussion has turned around in the world. I can feel it was about time, because we've known this for a long time. A society where everyone has the opportunity to grow, develop, achieve their full potential and achieve success in their own lives will also be successful. Justice and good conditions for everyone are not only morally right and proper. It is also an economically smart way of organising society. But it requires a society that provides these conditions. It is about that we have good preschools with high educational content and that we have a school that sees every child and that ensures that it can be challenged and developed. It is a question of those who want to put their mind to it being given the opportunity to study higher. It is about the fact that there is somewhere to live, that the wage envelope is growing as the prosperity of the country grows, that there are good opportunities to realise the dream of starting a business of our own, that we have a secure care for our elderly and functioning support in periods when it is needed, that we have health insurance when we get sick and unemployment insurance when we become unemployed. It is simply a matter of good conditions for a good life. Here the Swedish model has delivered something completely different from the American model. During the same period in Sweden, the 90 per cent have also benefited from the increase in prosperity. Mr President, I would like to The presidential elections in the United States and the UK's decision to leave the EU will have an impact not only on politics but also on the economy. It is therefore a good thing that Sweden's economy is strong in this situation. We have order in public finances. We have a low public debt, and our banks are well-capitalised. It is a solid foundation to stand on with an uncertain world. In addition, many indicators now point in the right direction in the Swedish economy. Growth in Sweden is currently one of the highest in Europe. It is higher than in Germany and the UK and is the highest in the Nordic countries. Since the government took office, 120 000 more people have a job to go to. We have the highest employment rate in Europe. The pace of construction has not been so high since the days of the million-dollar program. By conducting a tight fiscal policy, we have almost wiped out the large deficits that we inherited two years ago. Two months ago the World Economic Forum moved up Sweden three places in its ranking of the world's countries' competitiveness. The main reason for this was that we moved up 30 investments in public finances. The IMF's major economic review of Sweden clearly supports the balanced conduct of economic policy. It is a good basis to stand on when we are about to face up to the challenges ahead. Even though unemployment is now falling, we see that more than 350 000 people are still unemployed while we have 100 000 job vacancies. We see a housing shortage in nearly 250 of the country's municipalities. Welfare activities, not least school and care, have shortcomings. At the same time, our population is growing. New people need housing, schooling and work. In these areas, the government is making great efforts to reverse developments. There are 50,000 more training and matching efforts next year. This is the largest investment in housing policy in over 20 years. We have the big investment in the autumn budget, the 10 welfare billions, which create a secure welfare throughout the country. In addition, we have invested 10 billion directly to strengthen the Swedish school. These are important steps in the right direction. But we also see another challenge. In recent years, most of Sweden's economies have improved. The best has been done for those who already had high incomes. At the same time, others have had to stand back. We have seen the gaps increase, and with increased gaps there will be increased insecurity. This is obviously provocative for those who are left behind but also for those who see it happening. In Sweden, the absolute majority of people like equality, and the Swedish model is based on everyone being able to take part in the prosperity. Therefore, I – and many with me, I think – become angry to hear about women who have worked and fought their whole lives but do not get a pension that they can make a living on. We are provoked by how nurses in home care get to work double tours while pay is low, and we think it is wrong when single mothers cannot pay the fee to the child's football club. It is not the kind of society we want. It is not a Sweden we recognize. There has not been enough politics here. As Socialist Minister of Finance, it is my responsibility to do my part to reverse this trend, and we have already begun. We have reduced the tax on them with the lowest pensions, and we have increased the housing allowances. We have increased maintenance support for single parents and made a historic investment in welfare. However, this is only the beginning. Here we shall continue gradually to create an equal society – day by day, budget for budget, year by year, until the gaps are finally bridged again.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-495	Mr President, I would like to Therefore, it was interesting, albeit not surprisingly, to read the opposition's budgets. The Moderates' biggest investment is, as usual, a new job tax deduction that provides the most to those who earn the most. In total, the bourgeois parties' overall proposal for new tax reductions amounts to nearly SEK 80 billion. The tax bench ambition has been increased compared to last year's budget movements. The distinctions in Swedish politics are therefore clear. What we see are four bourgeois parties that want to reduce taxes, save welfare, slaughter the environmental budget, secure seriously ill people, lower the unemployment fund and cut back on support for increased construction. That is not the solution to the problems we see. That's not the answer to the societal challenges. If you look at the Swedish Democrats instead, you can see that they want to dismantle the Swedish model through continued privatisations, unstoppable profits in welfare and reduced labour law. In addition, they want to save 10 billion on municipal welfare. That's 20 000 nurses. The Swedish Democrats are also opposed to general state grants to municipalities and county councils so that they can adapt measures to the local needs that exist. The Swedish Democrats want it to be ruled from Stockholm and seem to mean politicians in Stockholm to decide, rather than the people in Sveg, Vilhelmina or Hultsfred. Let me be clear: I do not share that view. I believe that the knowledge and the ability to decide for themselves is around the country. Mr President, I would like to The opposition's path is not the way to go. Sweden does not need more tax cuts and cuts, but vice versa. We need to invest together in the construction of society in order to reduce the gaps. Only then can we create a Sweden that stays together.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-502	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of order, I would like to support the moderate reservations 1 and 6 in the committee's report. First of all, I would like to say that I actually agree with the Minister for Finance on one thing, and that is that I believe that a much better distribution policy is needed in the globalised economy than the one we have been used to in Europe and in Sweden in recent decades. It's about America, of course. This has always been the case in the United States, but it also applies to Sweden. The distribution policy cannot be based primarily on very high taxation of labour and very high contributions to those who do not work. Distributive policies in a globalised economy must be based on more people having access to useful knowledge and transition as the economy changes. Without this, a great many people will lag behind and become losers in the global economy. More and more economists wonder how things will go in Sweden when the recession that sooner or later will actually come. We are in a boom right now, and last night the Swedish National Audit Office warned and thus joined previous criticisms from the Council of Finance Policy, the Institute of Economic Affairs and the ESV. It questions the government's fiscal policy and points out that the government is now increasing deficits in a boom when we should instead save for the next recession. At the same time, we have a situation where negative interest rates also make monetary policy quite powerless next time something strikes seriously. My question to the Minister for Finance is: have all the Swedish expert authorities come together wrong, while the government is right?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-507	Mr President, I would like to It may also be the case that the international judges are right. There, as I said, we have raised 30 public finance investments, according to the World Economic Forum. The IMF explicitly supports the fact that government policies are balanced and balanced at this stage. In fact, I have not met with an international judge who brings forward views similar to those put forward by Ulf Kristersson. We also had a surplus in public finances last year. ESV means this week that we have a surplus even this year, so when Ulf Kristersson talks about deficit, he might think about the last term of office, when he was in the government and we were in deficit every year. So far the result is four years with deficit with Ulf Kristersson and two years with surplus with me.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-510	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the government subsequently revises its own budgets in opposition positions. In almost all the years when you added shadow budgets to our budget, you had bigger deficits. Moreover, it is fascinating how a few years later we can forget that we have had a financial crisis, perhaps implying that we can never again have a crisis. My second question is that there are plenty of investigations right now that suggest that the government wants to make it considerably more expensive to be an entrepreneur and run companies in Sweden. We see tax increases for small businesses in the 3:12 rules. We see financial tax hitting precisely the number of employees in financial companies. We see road wear taxes and air taxes. In addition, there is a de facto ban on having surpluses in welfare business and, moreover, on the success of RUT business after your reductions. The only thing we need is exactly what you are not yet presenting, that is, a concerted view of a better corporate taxation that can increase Swedish competitiveness in increasingly tough international competition. Why did you speak so unbelievably, beautifully and constructively about entrepreneurship for the e-election, as you are so systematically fighting it after the election?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-514	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson says that we should not forget the financial crisis. We certainly have not, but I can point out that the financial crisis did not happen during the years that Ulf Kristersson was in government without the mandate before then. However, Ulf Kristersson seems to have forgotten that we had a refugee crisis last autumn which means that we currently have exceptional expenses for the reception of refugees. It is clear that it affects public finances, otherwise we would of course have a higher surplus. Given these costs, we have exceptionally good public finances. When you listen to Ulf Kristersson it is a bit like Jeopardy. Tax, is always the answer from Moderate Ulf Kristersson. Tax, taxes, taxes! But now Swedish entrepreneurs don't just care about taxes. There are other things that also come up when you are out meeting Swedish entrepreneurs and to which we answer. What you often say is that you find it difficult to find the right skills. We have 50,000 new jobs and training places next year, precisely so that people can build on skills so that they can take the jobs that are now emerging. I often meet entrepreneurs who complain that the infrastructure is not working properly. Here, the government is making historically great efforts. Many entrepreneurs say that when they find the right skills, it is difficult for the workforce to move to where the company is because of the housing shortage. Here, too, the government makes historical efforts. If you believe that taxes are the only political tool that solves all the problems, then you do not think that the government has any industrial policy. But if you see politics a little wider than that, you can see that the government is making very important contributions to the Swedish business community.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-520	Mr President, I would like to I wonder where Swedish politics would have been without the prosperity with which we are now blessed. We are now halfway into Magdalena Andersson's first and probably only term as Minister of Finance, and the truth is that in the short time, the Minister of Finance has had time to question – if I remember everything right – the surplus target, the expenditure ceiling and the crown for the crown. When we had this debate two years ago, the barns were empty. The Swedish economy was at the bottom, according to the Minister of Finance. Now, two years later, after one and a half – if we count generously – the government budget is all fixed. That analysis, Magdalena Andersson, does not hold. No one buys that message. There are those who ask why the confidence figures for the government are so low. I'm not one of them. Trust is something you deserve. My main criticism of the government's economic policy is not, even if you try to mix the cards away, to present a budget that goes with billions in deficit during the boom of fire, as is being done for next year. We in the Alliance show that a balance can be achieved next year. It is not primarily a few billion, but it is a question of the government being consistently on the wrong side of our destiny during this term of office. We need to reform the Swedish economy fundamentally. It is about the housing market, the labour market, entrepreneurship policy and the basic incentives for work. On these points the government has been saved by a boom that makes it not as bad as it would otherwise have been. But we will pay the bill for the government's inactivity for a very long time. What does Magdalena Andersson plan to do about it?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-525	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Emil Källström's task that it was bad when we took over two years ago. Then there were very large deficits. During the general year of the Alliance, public financial savings deteriorated every year. Each year, deficits increased. It wasn't sustainable. When we took over, the deficits were the largest since the budgetary adjustment, that is, considerably greater than during the financial crisis itself. It was not sustainable development. We have turned it around, we keep track of the money and we take responsibility for the public finances – just as Social Democraticly led governments have always done. As usual, the bourgeois government leaves behind large budget deficits, as you have always done when you have the chance to take care of the money. I share Emil Källström's view that Sweden is facing major challenges. I do not see the Alliance's proposal to reduce tax as the solution to the challenge. It is not reduced taxes that solve the fact that entrepreneurs find it difficult to find the right skills when recruiting labour. Reduced taxes do not create more education. It is not reduced taxes that create better railways and fix holes and frost damage in our roads, but it is that resources are allocated for these efforts. It is not reduced taxes that create new dwellings and rental apartments to which young people can move, but it is a major investment in housing. Here's the government with the answer. Here we have launched important measures, and we will continue to work with them. The answer from the right is, as usual, reduced taxes. But that is not the answer to today's challenges.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-529	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Finance has a problem when the Swedish people do not recognize themselves in the reality description. What everyone except the Minister for Finance remembers is that every year during the financial crisis – as Ulf Kristersson said – the Social Democrats stood there and demanded even greater deficits. They wanted a much bigger deficit. We were told that Sweden would burn off much more money during the financial crisis and the years after. It's not something we forget. The Swedish economy was at the turn of power in 2014 among Europe's strongest. It is today, too. Absolutely – that's it! It is thanks to a boom that had saved the worst of governments. But the question is what happens after the boom. In a number of years' time, the Minister of Finance – unclear how many – will be able to eat up this defence speech in order to increase the tax on labour. It so clearly illustrates a government that is on the wrong side of the big trends. If there is something we will have to do to safeguard jobs in an economy such as Sweden, it is to reduce the tax burden on labour. This is partly about reducing the overall tax burden and partly about a shift in taxation towards, for example, environmental taxes and other tax bases. Then it is not enough now to take big steps in the wrong direction, to make it less profitable to have employees who perform the tasks rather than sending the jobs abroad, digitising and automating. This is a challenge together with the overall labour market and housing policy, and the government is on the wrong side. Everyone will have to pay the bill for this. Sweden will lose. That is something I regret, and it is something I intend to do something about by 2018. Until then, I hope that Magdalena Andersson will try to get over on the right side.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-534	Mr President, I would like to Now I don't think reduced taxes are the answer to everything. For eight years we have tried the moderate and bourgeois tax bench policy. We saw what it led to: increased gaps and reduced trust. M an it didn't create the jobs you were hoping for. On the contrary, unemployment, long-term unemployment and youth unemployment increased. The Swedish people felt that something is breaking and that something else is needed. This government stands for something else, namely that we invest in what we build together. We invest in our community rather than privatize, cut and lower taxes. Perhaps Emil Källström would borrow the Swedish National Audit Office's report from Ulf Kristersson – Ulf Kristersson has obviously read it. It shows that the answer for the future is not continued tax reductions. On the contrary, we will need to set aside resources to continue to strengthen welfare in the future and to safeguard and safeguard welfare. The answer to that, of course, will never be further tax cuts. It will only create increased divides and increased cuts and lower trust in society. This is not the way for the future.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-537	Mr President, I would like to Just a week ago, an investigation ordered by the government was completed. It is a study aimed at increasing the taxation of the country's small businesses. The so-called entrepreneurial tax aims to increase the taxation of hard-working small businesses by about SEK 5 billion by, among other things, limiting their ability to collect dividends from their own companies. I have a number of objections to the conclusions of this investigation. On the one hand, it does not seem to understand that it is small businesses that are creating new jobs. On the other hand, it does not seem to be understood that the deterioration of opportunities and conditions for small businesses is reducing incentives and the tendency to set up a business. Furthermore, it does not seem to be understood that it is fairly ordinary people who are affected by such a proposal. It is hard working electricians, plumbers, carpenters, straighteners, freight forwarders and so on. The only ones that could possibly be excluded by such a proposal are really expensive and really high-paid lawyers at agencies in Stockholm. We all know, of course, the reason, namely that the government is desperately in need of funding its refugee billions. Whoever says something else is wrong. I have a very simple question for the Minister for Finance: does the government intend to proceed with the investigation, or does it not intend to proceed with the investigation?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-540	Mr President, I would like to We have just received the investigation to the Government Office, and now, of course, we will send it for a referral. It will be a customary referral, and then we will have to take a position on it. It is of course important for the government that there are good conditions for companies and small businesses in the country. We have also taken many measures to strengthen the opportunities of small businesses with a new knowledge boost, with more housing, better infrastructure, a new export strategy and a better use of state venture capital. Of course, taxation provides good incentives to real entrepreneurs. Today, the 3:12 rules are used for some tax-planning high income earners in Stockholm via artificial companies. That's not good. I want tax rules that avoid and reduce opportunities for tax evasion and tax evasion. This is something that this government has been working hard on from the day we entered the Government Office. Here it is sad that we have not received the support of the Swedish Democrats. A key part of getting rid of tax evasion and evasion is working internationally and in the EU against the activities. Much of tax evasion and evasion takes place through international transactions. Then we have to work internationally. When we vote on proposals in Parliament to do more via the EU, the Swedish Democrats vote against. They do not want us to fight tax evasion and tax evasion through joint international work. This makes the Swedish Democrats unique in the Swedish parliament. It's a party for those who like international tax evasion. This at the same time as the Swedish Democrats cut into the welfare. The Swedish Democrats' budget motion proposes 10 billion less for school and health care. That's 20,000 less nurses. My question to Oscar Sjöstedt is: Where in Sweden are fewer nurses needed? Is it in Sveg? Is it in Vilhelmina? Is it in Härnösand? Is it in Hultsfred? Where are there currently too many nurses?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-546	Mrs. Old President! My recommendation is that this investigation be relegated to the round archive. Of course, we are not cutting Swedish democrats into the welfare of our budget. We invest considerably more in welfare than the government does in its budget bill. But let me return to the investigation. We have seen an increase in income tax for ordinary wage earners, which of course hits jobs, and an increase in petrol tax that hits the countryside. Now there is a chemical tax that moves many jobs abroad, mileage tax that hits the haulage industry, increased sick pay costs for companies that hit everyone who hires and last in the line of entrepreneurial taxes that of course hit entrepreneurs and small businesses. This government has shown almost unlimited imagination and frenzy in taxing everyone who works, everything that creates jobs, everything that moves and, in some cases, things that stand still. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: is it the assessment by the Minister of Finance that these tax increases will lead us closer or further away from the government's so-called job case?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-550	Mrs. Old President! This is the case, Oscar Sjöstedt: It is not the countries in the world that have the lowest taxes that have the highest level of employment, although the Swedish Democrats seem to think so. It is those countries that have good general welfare, tax smartly and use the money smartly that manage to achieve not only good equal opportunities but also high employment and high growth. That is exactly how this government works. That is how the Swedish model is designed, and that is how we intend to continue working to strengthen jobs, growth and employment in Sweden. It is about the need to finance the common welfare. Here I am very concerned that the Swedish Democrats want to cut so much in municipalities and county councils already next year. You cut 33 billion in the budget for municipalities and county councils. Then you hope that tax revenue will increase by about 23 billion. But it leaves 10 billion that will no longer be with municipalities and county councils. Twenty thousand nurses are to be removed. Who are they? Where are they? In which municipalities? What older ones should no longer have someone from home care when they need food, need to be showered, or need to shop? It remains for the Swedish Democrats to answer.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-554	Mrs. Old President! I see that Sweden has a good chance of many good, high-paid jobs in the tech sector. We have a number of successful start-up companies in Sweden, so-called unicorns – unicorns in Swedish, but that doesn't sound as cool. It is billion dollar companies and brands that are well known for many Swedes: Spotify, Klarna, Skype, Minecraft and a few others. These companies and many who come under there have the chance to become our new Skanska, ABB, Erics's on and so on – if we reform. A reform that companies are screaming for is employee options, i.e. being able to make their employees a partner in the companies. I visited a small start-up company in Linköping on Friday. They make 3D printers. They find it difficult to recruit the staff they need – highly specialised, skilled people – because the large companies in Linköping and elsewhere can pay much higher wages and have better conditions in all possible ways. This company's chance to make these people dare to move to a risky small start-up company and go down in wages is that they can become partners. If it's going well for the company, they can make good money from it. But today it is practically impossible to use employee options because it is so expensive, both for the company and for the person who should have the option, that almost no one uses this. The proposal that comes out of the investigation is very narrow. Minister for Industry Mikael Damberg spoke positively about this before the investigation came, but afterwards the comments have been much more palatable. It's not in the budget. Will this happen soon, and will there be a broader reform than the one proposed in the investigation?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-558	Mrs. Old President! This is an investigation that was set up under the alliance government and came to this government's table. The investigation has received a lot of criticism from both sides. Some feel that it is far too far-reaching a proposal to destroy the inherent beauty of the tax system. It has been criticised by the Swedish Tax Agency, among other things, that it destroys the logic of the tax system. On the other side, there are those who claim that this is far too little. It is clear that when such serious criticism comes from both sides, it is important that the government properly considers how to proceed with the proposal. It is in this process that the government is currently in the process. So we are preparing the proposal. It is important that we listen to both opinions that have emerged in the referral report before deciding to move forward, because it is important that we take the right step forward so that we improve opportunities for all entrepreneurs in Sweden and do not make it more complicated and therefore worse. Something that is amazing in Sweden is all the innovation power and all the ideas that exist here, all the new young companies that have been started and all the young people who start companies. This is something we should be very happy and proud of, and it bodes well for the future growth of the Swedish economy.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-562	Mrs. Old President! Yes, they're amazing, many of these entrepreneurs. Many are young, but they are of all ages. What is common to them is that they have abolished the Jante Act. They believe and dare to say that they will build huge billion-dollar companies, and it feels very liberating. It's nice to meet them. This investigation has indeed received a great deal of criticism. Of course, you had the opportunity to change if you thought there was something wrong with the investigation. You extended the time for it, didn't you? However, we do not need to spend too much time on it, but rather spend it on what to do. The Tax Agency receives poetic texts about the tax system and its inner beauty. But one problem that has existed for a long time in Sweden, and which has not only to do with the Social Democrats but is broad and cheered on by the Swedish Tax Agency, is that you are too focused on preventing people from using a system to the maximum, as we know some do. It makes you twist too hard for the entrepreneurs, for all these people with ideas. It is, of course, possible to use options incorrectly. But we need to see the advantage of this, and I think the advantage is much greater. We should not ignore the second, of course not, but the advantage here is very great. I think you should try to get away from the idea that it is some industries that are allowed to have these options. How the hell will I or you or anyone else be able to decide in which industry we will have start-up companies that challenge and change the current system? I think we need to make a broad system – we Liberals put forward some ideas about this this spring – so that we do not get into this narrow thinking in Sweden. It is good that it is in the back of the head, but I think we have gone too far in that direction.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-567	Mrs. Old President! That is exactly the balance we are working on in the Government Office. Of course, we want a system that makes it good for entrepreneurs so that there are more people who want to take the risk of going from a permanent job to starting work at a start-up company. At the same time, we do not want to create holes in the tax system that risk leading to tax evasion and tax evasion, because we need resources to fund our common welfare. We also want there to be a level playing field between companies that are doing the right thing and companies that are not doing the right thing. It is therefore important to find the right balance. I would like to end by correcting Mathias Sundin, who said in a previous line that the government is saving on assistance. I would like to point out that every year during this parliamentary term we increase the resources for assistance. During the entire term of office, we increase these resources by SEK 3 billion. It's a major reform– I just want right to be right.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-571	Mrs. Old President! Then perhaps the government can finally abolish the free-entry reform and instead send out a picture of the inherent beauty of the tax system to the Swedish people. I think that would provoke, just as I suppose the government thinks good art should. I note that the Minister for Finance was upset that people have low pensions and that single people do not get enough pay. Then I would like to inform the Minister for Finance that her party can vote for an alternative that gives the single mother 500 SEK more each month, if she has a job. Those with low pension and BTP receive 500 SEK more each month. In addition, the difference between pay and tax on pensions, up to just over 14 000, is reduced. This is achieved with the Christian Democrats' budget options. I also noted that the Minister of Finance wanted to play Jeopardy. We can take Swedish politics for 1 000 SEK. The answer is the red-green budget for 2017. The question is: what is a budget that seems to have given up on jobs and the framework, which does not make important structural reforms for healthcare and which is leaning back into the economic sun? Like the Minister for Finance, I am concerned about this with distribution – ensuring that prosperity gains are shared by everyone. I believe that the biggest gap in Sweden is between those who have a job and those who do not. That is why I am really concerned that this budget contains so few job reforms to lower the thresholds which seriously prevent large groups of people from entering the labour market. The Public Employment Service will repeatedly point out that the division on the Swedish labour market is increasing. When are you going to develop the tools needed to break this development?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-576	Mrs. Old President! If Jakob Forssmed's answer to the question of lower thresholds is reduced wages, we have different views. I do not believe that lower wages and higher rents and lower taxes for the richest solve Sweden's problems, create more jobs, reduce gaps or increase trust in society, which is the overall response of the bourgeoisie to the challenges facing Sweden. As far as the pensioner tax is concerned, it is good that Jakob Forssmed wants to reduce it, but I would remind him that it was when the Christian Democrats were in government that the tax was introduced. It is a good thing to back down on this issue. In order to create more jobs, we need to invest. That's exactly what the government does. There will be 50,000 more jobs and matching opportunities next year. We historically invest a lot in infrastructure, we build housing, we have a new export strategy, we ensure that state venture capital is better used and we have a series of measures to strengthen the Swedish business community so that more people are hired. We also want to invest in welfare. There, 10 billion to our municipalities and county councils is a way to secure well-being now that the population is growing. This is something that Jakob Forssmed's party usually thinks is important, and so I'm a little surprised that the Christian Democrats want to save in welfare next year. Why is this the right way forward?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-580	Mrs. Old President! I did not hear anything about the job reforms that will be required to break the division into the labour market. It is clear that the Minister for Finance can talk about the fact that under no circumstances can they envisage any tax relief for people who work and that they can take a number of such positions and build up an ideological framework that limits what they themselves are prepared to do. The thresholds are too high, and we see this picture that Arbetsförmedlingen gives time and time again. It should worry every politician. You should watch it when you wake up in the morning, when you have lunch and when you go to bed in the evening. How are we going to make sure that we get more people to work? We say: greatly simplify labour market policy, remove the long range of forms of aid, which is a jungle for an employer who wants to use existing subsidies, and make sure that you concentrate on a few proposals! We say: Introduce introductions with the same job security as others! However, those with a lack of educational background and perhaps limited language skills should be able to have a slightly lower starting salary and receive training at work, and then – at the latest after five years – receive 100 percent of their salary. At the same time, we say: Lower income tax so that it pays better for these groups to take the jobs! Faced with double job tax deductions for people who are newly arrived, young or come from long unemployment and sick leave! Make it extra profitable for parents to take part - time jobs so that they can go from no job to no job! It is not tax relief for high-income earners that we are talking about, but for people with low incomes, for them to have a safer economy, for them to pay better to work and for us to be able to break the division. As far as welfare is concerned, it is true that we invest less resources than the government in municipalities and county councils overall. We invest more resources than the government aimed at healthcare and care – 14 billion more over four years. I would like to remind the Minister of Finance of what she said in Agenda herself, namely that it is employment and jobs that determine how well-being develops in our municipalities.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-587	Mrs. Old President! It is good that municipalities and county councils have real resources so that they can make important balances of what is needed in individual municipalities and county councils. I therefore find it sad that the Christian Democrats are cutting back on municipalities and county councils. Jakob Forssmed said he didn't hear anything about the job reforms required. No, of course, if you have to hear a reduction in wages, in order for it to be the right reforms, you will not hear it from my mouth. On the other hand, it is obvious that the costs of those who are far removed from the labour market should be reduced. But it is important to realise that the people who need to enter the labour market look different, just like all of us who are already there. We see that the gap is widening between those with upper secondary education or more and those with only nine years of education or less. There is the big gap in the labour market today. This is precisely why the government invests a great deal in people later in life having the opportunity to study both komvux – the theoretical part – and vocational adult – upper secondary school's vocational programme. Here the government is making a big effort so that the young people who have opted out of the professional programmes so that the status of the programmes has been reduced will be able to read them later. These are areas where there is not only a shortage of labour, but where it is also easy to get a job, if you have completed these training courses. We are closing this gap through 50 000 more places in terms of both matching and training and jobs. There are also additional welfare services, which are precisely a way of lowering the thresholds so that people who are a little further away from the labour market can enter. The government is taking the full cost to be able to go next door in home care and perform important tasks so that the quality of our elderly can be increased. This is another way to lower the thresholds, just as we do when we increase wage subsidies and face modern preparedness jobs. We are doing a lot to ensure that the people who are far from the labour market also get to work. But lowering wages is not our melody.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-593	Mrs. Old President! Sweden has unique opportunities. We – the Center Party and the Alliance – have shown that growth and entrepreneurship can go hand in hand with reductions in emissions and a balanced fiscal policy. International competitiveness is possible in combination with high welfare ambitions and more resources for school, health and long-term care. We have good conditions, but it requires hard work. The government's tax policy has brought Sweden back to the top of an unmerciful international ranking: We are now the country in the world with the highest marginal tax. It's sending a signal. Sweden, as a small, open economy with significant exports, must be internationally competitive. Then we cannot move back towards the world's highest tax burden. The main benefits and risks of tax policy lie in the long-term perspective. In essence, Swedish competitiveness is about long-term prerequisites for running and changing up companies. Without companies that employ, we cannot get the tax resources that we need to strengthen welfare. Taxes are instruments that influence behaviour. Signals about where tax policy is going mean at least as much as the taxes that are being raised here and now. The government has already increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by nearly 30 billion and has given directives on tax increases to investigations. This applies to a wide range of areas such as small businesses, air transport, etc. The government also investigates a mileage tax – a tax from a distance – which according to the investigator can land in tax increases of 8 – 10 billion. Mrs. Old President! Sweden is a country with long distances. Tax from a distance makes living and working in rural areas even more costly. It affects not only rural businesses but also households. The combined tax burden risks damaging the Swedish economy through a loss of competitiveness. Our small and open economy is extremely dependent on our exports. Increased charges reduce the competitiveness of Swedish companies. We are now in a boom. More jobs are emerging and employment is rising. Despite this, not everyone is doing well. We see contractions that hit entire towns hard, and there is a risk that a new social sub-class will emerge. We want to stop that. A key task of fiscal policy is to help reduce social and regional fragmentation. More jobs need to be created through more employees in small and growing companies. Tax policy is absolutely crucial in this area. The Swedish job creation potential is found in small and growing companies. Setting up and running businesses must be made easier and cheaper. The labour market must also be opened up to more people. Only in this way can polarisation and division be reduced. New arrivals and those with short education are unemployed to a greater extent than natives and those with a high level of education. Sweden has the EU's minimum proportion of jobs requiring short-term training. These two phenomena – the difficulties for marginal groups in getting a job and the lack of jobs – are interrelated. In order to combat division and exclusion, the Swedish labour market needs to be reformed to stimulate the growth of more jobs. The Center Party has therefore proposed a broad reform package, abolishing the employer's contribution for the first employee, abolishing the employer's contribution for new entrants to the labour market and reducing and standardising taxation for the small company. We also restore the ROT deduction and triple the RUT deduction with more included services. Mrs. Old President! Green tax exchange is one of the most powerful tools we have to strengthen climate change. It is about increasing taxes on what is bad for the environment and reducing taxes on what we want more of, namely jobs. Unfortunately, the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the current government are not investing in a green tax exchange. They raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship six times more than they raise taxes on environmental pollution. We need a fresh start for the green tax shift. The Center Party has a detailed programme for how we want to increase tax revenue by 8 1⁄2 billion a year for four years, i.e. a total of 34 billion. These include taxes on waste incineration, plastics and environmental taxes on company cars. The Center Party puts a price tag on environmental degradation while returning revenues to lower the tax burden on things that have great socio-economic benefits, such as job creation in growing companies. This should be a guiding principle of fiscal policy, not least in times of small margins in public finances. Tax policy will lay the foundations for growth throughout the country. This depends on facilitating transport and digital communication and enabling green industries – agriculture and forestry – to be the hub for entrepreneurship and growth in rural areas. For this reason, the Center Party has put forward proposals on, among other things, a substantial reduction in the social security contributions for dairy farmers, investments in biofuels and an environmental truck premium. We do not think that distance should be taxed, but that renewables should be rewarded. Mrs. Old President! These are some examples of the Centre Party's alternatives to a new tax policy. That is our alternative to the policy put forward by the government. We want to make it cheaper to hire, not more expensive. We want citizens to retain more of their wages, not less. We want to lower the thresholds into the labour market, not raise them. We want a green tax change for real. The challenges we see before us are great, but they also offer great opportunities. Ultimately, the path lies with ourselves. Sweden can be a country filled with opportunities for anyone who wants to contribute to a better country and a better world. That is why we need a new tax policy. I commend the Center Party's reservations 3 and 8.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-612	Mrs. Old President! Today we are debating the state budget for next year. I would like to start by referring to what my party colleague Ulf Kristersson has said earlier in the debate. In my speech, of course, I will focus on tax matters. I, too, would like to begin by expressing my support for the reservations of the Moderates 1 and 6. Mrs. Old President! The world is changing. What we have previously believed to be unthinkable becomes a reality over and over again. As the world changes, demands are made that we, up here in a small country in the cold Nordic countries, constantly adapt if we are to be able to participate and compete. The fact that we are in international competition is crucial for whether mothers and fathers and young people and a little older people should have a job to go to. Taxes play an important role in this context. Taxes play a role when people choose to take risks and invest in running businesses. Many start in the garage or in the basement, and for those who succeed there are opportunities to grow and eventually expand and perhaps hire. But it only happens if they dare to bet and if they think it is worth taking the risk. It is only then that they can grow, and that is when jobs can become more. It is people at work who build Sweden strong. It is thanks to them that we can have a high quality in school. It is thanks to them that we can get smaller groups in preschool. And it is because of them that we can feel that security is there when we most need it. Since it is people in work who build Sweden strongly, it is our duty as politicians to clear every road that can lead to jobs. We do this with our budget for a stronger Sweden. It is central to it that it should pay better to work. We want lower thresholds into the labour market. We want to see that it pays better to move from grants to work and that it pays better to start and run a business. We want to see Sweden at the forefront of the growing collaborative economy, and we want to see more opportunities for those who come here from war and oppression to get their first job. Sweden is challenged by a new and growing exclusion that soon includes 1 million people. We are challenged by falling school scores. And we are challenged by insecurity. Many people live a good life in Sweden with jobs, family and leisure activities, but many others live in a completely different reality. It is a reality where you find it difficult to get your first job and where children's schooling may not work. That must not be the case. Our society should not fail anyone. If we're gonna break the alienation, we need more people who can get their first job faster. Mrs. Old President! In our budget, we put forward proposals that benefit more industries with simple jobs. We're improving apprenticeships. We invest 9 billion next year and then 12 billion to reduce the tax on the lowest incomes, which gives 500 SEK extra a month to a family with children where the mother may be a bus driver and the father works as a shop assistant. We also present a whole new opportunity for people to learn the job at work, and those who do so also pay $10 in tax up to $15,000 a month. It should pay to take responsibility for your future. We are investing in new and growing companies that have the best ideas, so that they can attract the best people and create the sharpest products and services. It is such companies that in the future will ensure that Sweden can stand strong in a tougher international competition. We are also developing ideas on how to keep the tax system in line with the new collaborative economy so that we do not fall behind. On the contrary, we will be at the forefront. Mrs. Old President! In our budget for a stronger Sweden, we take responsibility for the economy. We are reducing the cost of grants, and we are making proposals to ensure that it is always profitable to work, to make an effort and to take responsibility. We want to promote entrepreneurship and better conditions for all heroes to job creators in the industry, in the service industry and in the welfare sector. However, when you read the government's budget, Madam President, you are struck by the fact that the government cannot see the heroism of everyone who gets up in the morning and goes to work, of everyone who hires others and of everyone who invests heavily in their own ideas. Where we try to simplify and understand, the government chooses to make things more difficult. Where we make it cheaper, the government chooses to cost. Where we try to create driving forces and willingness to take risks, the government puts brake blocks in the way – or does nothing at all. They choose to cut back on the RUT sector. RUT is a completely new industry where women in particular often start businesses, and often women born abroad. Half of all women who run companies in the RUT sector were born outside Sweden. This compares with all entrepreneurs, where the figure is 16%. This reform, which has undoubtedly created jobs and opportunities for entrepreneurship, chooses the government to roll back. It is a very damaging strategy, and it is a remarkable priority. The list can be made long. You raise the gas tax. You want to tax distance. You want to tax flights. It wants to make it less profitable to run a business. One-sidedly, the aim is to increase the tax burden on the 85 000 employees in banking and insurance. You raise the income tax for teachers, midwives, police and other ordinary people – the people you promised before the elections not to raise the tax for. I don't know what the government's plan is, but I wish I understood. Government parties normally justify all their tax increases by using them for investment. But what would be a better investment than that in future jobs? Then I mean real jobs and not trainee services, extra services and everything. This reminds me of one point when I was on a company visit to Örkelljunga last week. Then I heard one person say: a person doesn't really care what the answer is, but someone from the government has to explain where people are going to work in the future. I think it's a very relevant question, because it doesn't seem like more people should work with simple jobs. It doesn't seem like people are going to run businesses, and it certainly doesn't seem like people are going to run businesses in welfare. Can't it be that one imagines that jobs will emerge only with us politicians, in the public sector? In that case, I must remind the government parties that it is the companies and the jobs they create that finance the public sector. We're gonna have a safe school. We're going to have a safe preschool. We're going to have safe care, and we're going to have a safe old age. But all this, Madam President, requires safe businesses. What I hear and see now are insecure and anxious companies. Dare you invest for the future? Are you going to wind up now instead of working for a few more years, as you had first thought? Should you start here, or should you move abroad? These are some of the questions I have been asked since the government acknowledged the color of the enterprise issue. Mrs. Old President! We will never support a policy that affects households. We'll never risk our jobs. We will always give priority to security. We present a budget for a stronger Sweden where everyone, according to their ability, is doing the right thing – and where it pays in return to make an effort, where we see that the whole of Sweden can grow and where in the future we stand stronger in an increasingly tough competition.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-631	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 2 and 7 in the report. Tax policy is an area bordering on many other policies. It has an impact on a country's ability to create more opportunities and counter problems, and it has an impact on whether the use of our common resources is optimally designed – or at least as optimal as possible. As a first step, tax resources need to be redistributed as far as possible to increase the funding of welfare, security, entrepreneurship and industry, financed by reduced expenditure in other areas, such as migration, integration, misdirected aid and more. The Swedish democrats want to invest considerable tax money in the rehabilitation of the defence, an increase in the number of police officers and a more child-friendly policy, with care for our country's best interests. The whole country will have the opportunity to live, and we will have a business and industrial policy for more jobs. The Swedish Democrats have also repeatedly tried to reach out to all the other parties in order to achieve as many of these goals as possible. Sweden is one of the European countries with the highest indebtedness in private households. In a situation with both expected increased public debt and increasing private debt in Sweden, all warning bells should ring. In the near future, Sweden risks being thrown into uncertainty with unmanageable interest costs on the mountain of debt that has been allowed to grow to very large proportions. Sweden has been there before. It is time to start acting preventively, and we are also opening up there for broad cooperation in the financial field with, among other things, fiscal policy as a tool for reaching a more stable and secure Sweden. Swedish industry in general and Swedish industry in particular need to develop continuously. The development of industry depends on many factors where a key component is fiscal policy. While tax is to be used for welfare purposes, it will be crucial not to put excessive brake blocks on business development potential through fiscal policy. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose a number of measures to strengthen Swedish industry and industry. Both the government and large parts of the opposition now admit that the policy of refugees and immigration actually costs money. Less than an hour ago, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson stood in the speaker's chair and said that we have exceptionally high expenditure on the refugees' policy and that it naturally has implications for fiscal policy. It is, of course, one of the main reasons why the government feels obliged to raise taxes. While I still have Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson in mind, I would like to take this opportunity to respond to criticism of the Swedish Democrats which she threw out. She claimed that the Swedish Democrats have voted against proposals to combat tax evasion. The fact is rather the opposite: we have always supported all proposals aimed at combating tax evasion. The only example she has to the contrary is that we voted against a proposal to EU-adapt planned OECD cooperation in this area. There it was precisely the European adaptation that we opposed, nothing else. To say that we are therefore opposed to combating tax evasion is kind of like saying that we do not want a state budget for Sweden, because we will vote against the government's government budget. The reason we are doing this is because we are voting on our own proposal. The money now spent on refugee and immigration policy could be used differently – for example to stimulate businesses, make it easier for households and invest in welfare. The Swedish Democrats put forward a series of tax proposals in this year's budget. It shows, among other things, a reduction in the costs of small businesses, a reduction in pensioner's tax, a further increase in investor deductions and reliefs for agriculture and forestry. We are critical of the relatively high taxes levied on labour, and it will be charged even more with the government's budget. It has been repeated many times in this speaker's chair that about four out of five new jobs are created in growing small businesses. The Swedish Democrats are proposing a series of clear improvements for small businesses, as part of stimulating employment. For small businesses, the Swedish Democrats want to give tax incentives specifically on work. We want to completely abolish the general payroll tax for all companies up to nine employees. With this, we want to create incentives and opportunities for small businesses, which create the new jobs, to have the conditions for new jobs. We need more jobs in Sweden, and we need a higher employment rate in the economy. We prefer low taxes for low incomes rather than even lower wages. As a rule, when investors intend to invest in industrial activities in Sweden, real estate is a very significant part of tangible assets. Our view is that taxation of industrial properties can help to discourage the establishment of industrial production in Sweden. Conversely, favourable taxation of real estate in industry can contribute to more industrial investment. Sweden, as you know, has built its wealth on the basis of industry. That is why the Swedish Democrats believe that fiscal policy needs to be adapted to continue to support it in the future. We propose a further development of investor credit, which aims to increase the availability of venture capital in smaller companies. Today, this is addressed only to natural persons, which means that those who buy shares in smaller companies – in accordance with certain conditions at the time of formation or in the event of a new issue – may deduct half of the amount invested, up to SEK 1.3 million. We believe that the investor credit is a good tool for directing venture capital towards smaller companies, which would probably have been less interesting to invest in without this deduction. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to further develop this, taking into account the level of the deduction, the possibility for legal persons to use the deduction and the possibility of allowing the public to make use of it for investments in venture capital funds investing in small businesses. The policy should also focus on underestimating agriculture and forestry, i.e. because these sectors are important for Swedish employment and economics, and to make it easier for the whole of Sweden to live. In addition, Sweden's self-sufficiency rate has fallen. We live in a troubled world, and we must strive to cope with a situation even when cross-border trade does not function optimally. One of our proposals to change this is to reduce the tax on fuels for precisely agricultural and forestry purposes. In conclusion, the Swedish Democrats want to see a balanced, realistic fiscal policy in the middle field, with responsibility for social risks and with investments in welfare and business.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-651	Mrs. Old President! Job tax deduction is a tax relief for anyone who gets up in the morning and goes to work. It gives a nurse an extra month's salary in his wallet every year. It has played a role in the Swedish economy, as it has played a role in the jobs. More people have wanted to work, and more have also got a job to go to. I do not think that everyone knows about this, but this is what the Swedish Democrats want to change. If the Swedish democrats' budget were passed, the job tax deduction would be abolished. I am convinced that this is not a policy that gets more people to work. This is not a policy for jobs. I am also convinced that the jobs are needed if we are to fix our future security – if we are to continue to build Sweden strongly. Why, then, do the Swedish Democrats not believe this? Why do we want to abolish the job tax credit? Why should working pay less? I cannot help but ask a question about what David Lång said in his speech that we are living in a troubled world. I would like to know what the Swedish Democrats are doing to make it less worried.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-655	Mrs. Old President! Our entire fiscal policy is aimed at making work pay, as is clear. The fact that we should abolish the job tax credit is simply not true. Even when it comes to entrepreneurship, it should pay off. Our policy and budget are aimed at strengthening the household economy, and their economy is strengthened by the draft budget that we have tabled. The tax cuts we are proposing have also been directed primarily at those with lower incomes. It should not only pay to work – there should also be jobs to go to. It is precisely for this reason that we want to stimulate smaller, growing companies, for example, with the abolition of the general wage levy. We also propose a reduction in sickness pay, which is particularly beneficial for small businesses. Every study that has been carried out on our overall budget shows that, overall, it will benefit households. This applies not least to our abolished pensioner's tax – an issue that we have, incidentally, been the party that has pushed the hardest and most consistently since we entered the Parliament in 2010. As far as the rest of the world is concerned, it is clear that one can try to do one's part. But the main thing that we need to do to secure ourselves, in the event of the world becoming even more worried, is to take control of our borders and strengthen our defence. When it comes to strengthening the defence, the Swedish Democrats have for quite some time been quite alone among the parties to want to do this, which I would say is one of the most important measures in such a situation.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-658	Mrs. Old President! Now David Lång says that it is not true that the Swedish democrats want to abolish the job tax deduction. Then I have to put a counter-question: Is it the case that the Swedish Democrats want us to retain the job tax deduction imposed by the Alliance Government? It is people at work who build Sweden strong. Those who work pay for the care, for the school and for the safety. The fact that many people are working is also what lays the foundation for a stable pension system and for pensions to grow. We have seen that the job tax deductions, with our construction, worked – 120 000 new jobs are the result of that reform. That is why we are continuing along this path and are introducing further relief for those with the lowest income. This in turn is estimated to create 15 000 new full-time jobs, of which six out of ten are believed to go to people who come from exclusion. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to abolish this tax credit. Instead, they want to increase housing allowance, sickness benefit, maintenance allowance, child care allowance and parental allowance, and abolish certain days. When it is people in work who build Sweden strong, it is our duty to make it more profitable to go to work. The economic policy of the Swedish democrats does not do this, and I wish that more people could see it in the seams.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-663	Mrs. Old President! If Maria Malmer Stenergard looks up p. 101 in the Swedish Democrats' budget, she sees the main heading Lowered Income Tax. This is one of the main elements of our tax policy. We have tried to reach out one hand to the other parties to reform the tax system, but if this does not go in the direction we have in mind, the job tax deductions will be happy to remain for me. I do not see any major problems with this. I am aware that job tax deductions have benefited both households and the Swedish economy. However, this could be done even better, and that is the kind of proposal that we would like to see if we could set up a parliamentary inquiry to work on a new tax system. So far, however, no one has taken the outstretched hand.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-665	Mrs. Old President! We Christian Democrats believe that there are other values that a tax policy must take into account in addition to the crowns and the crowns: values such as trust, security, feeling connected in the little as a family but also in the big as a municipality, region or state. We want to create a society where we trust the families and their choices. The choices that the family makes are believed to be the best in their situation, for they feel their situation. Strengthening family self-determination and the position of civil society provide a basis for working interpersonal relations. The family's self-determination is increased through financial space and the possibility to choose preschool, school or, for that matter, health centre or retirement home. We want to create the conditions for good growth and a business environment that stands well in global competition. Through a well-functioning economic policy, we can also invest resources on public welfare, lower taxes on working parents, lower taxes on working seniors and lower taxes on pension income. With thought-out reforms on the labour market and in fiscal policy, we can improve people's chances of leaving unemployment and exclusion, and provide opportunities for community and jobs. New jobs are not created by political solutions from above. D e is created in growing and profitable companies. The Red-Green Government believes that it can reach Europe's lowest unemployment rate and cope with the integration challenge of massive tax increases on labour and entrepreneurship. The direction of the Christian Democrats is the opposite. We want to lower the thresholds into the labour market and improve the conditions for entrepreneurship. The Christian Democrats reject the government's proposed change in the stratum limits for government tax in 2017 and 2018 to make it profitable to for example continue to train as a specialist nurse or to become head of elderly care. The government's change in the stratum limits means that much more ordinary wage earners pay government tax and risk leading to significantly lower, or even non-existent, income gains compared to what is budgeted. If we produce all the taxes that the government has raised, there will be a number of papers. I find it difficult to see how new taxes can now be found, but with the help of the Left Party you will probably succeed. Many of the taxes that are now being implemented are hitting small businesses directly and their ability to dare to take the step of hiring another person. It is in small businesses that the new jobs must come, and making their situation more difficult will not help. I'd like us to go the other way. Let us consider what tax incentives can be made for small businesses and which provide a greater opportunity for another new employee. Unfortunately, I do not think that this government will think about it because they want to go the other way. Prohibiting welfare gains seems to be the way forward. The most ironic thing about banning profits in welfare is that those in welfare companies that generate these profits are female entrepreneurs. They feel a strong drive to start new businesses. You heard correctly that the feminist government has not thought about this that it is women who run these companies. Increased taxes affect the motivation to work and raise the thresholds into the labour market. Increased taxes affect the motivation to start, run and develop businesses. Therefore, we should have a government that looks further into the future and not only creates enough tax revenue to make it through to the 2018 elections. Long-term fiscal policy and predictability benefit both families and businesses. Some of the proposals included in the Christian Democrats' budget are the gift tax deduction, which the government has removed at a time when we have seen how useful civil society can do. It is a hard blow, not only economically but also in signals to civil society. We want to give the opposite signal: you are important. You are a cog in society as a whole, and the gift tax deduction is a small part for people in general to be able to show gratitude for the work you do. Double job tax deductions are introduced for groups that find it difficult to enter the labour market. The proposal provides a tax relief for young people under the age of 25 and for those who take an academic degree and start working before they turn 25, even for new arrivals during the first five years in Sweden and for people who come from long-term unemployment or sick leave. There will be more people working, which Sweden needs, and in this way we are trying to stimulate it even more. We are taking a step that the government cannot take, and that is reducing the gap between pensioner tax and payroll tax. On pensions up to SEK 14 000, the gap will be closed with the Christian Democrats' budget. We want to continue this effort and close the gap completely. We must realise once and for all that pension is not a benefit but a deferred salary. Consequently, there is no justification for having tax differences in this way. We are also taking a step in order for families to have a better financial situation, when we want to introduce a job tax deduction for families, of SEK 500 per guardian. We see that families have a more pressured financial situation, and we must take those signals seriously. It is very much to the detriment of children, and we must do as much as possible in order for society to remedy this. I started the speech with confidence and security and believe that that is where it has to end too. Trust and security are lacking in today's society. Car fires we see, net hat we see. Trust between people is lacking in many cases. I believe that we as politicians have a great responsibility. We must try to solve these tasks together and show that we can actually respect each other. We should have open dialogues and be solution-oriented, so that we can regain trust in society. Otherwise, I am in favour of reservations 5 and 10.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-678	Mrs. Old President! Before I go into tax policy, I want to take a look back. A year ago the bourgeois parties strongly criticized the government's employment policy. These were allegations that politics would not lead to more jobs and that we would not be able to cope with the economy. The rhetoric was built around a sentence, that there was no qualified judge or external analyst who believed in the government's employment policy. You can think about how things have turned out. Since the government took over power, the number of jobs has increased by 120 000. Youth unemployment has fallen dramatically and is now at its lowest level since 2003. Long-term unemployment for adults has fallen sharply, and the employment rate in Sweden is now the highest ever recorded in an EU country. However, it is not only employment policy that has paid off. Bnp grows above expectation. Our growth is stronger than in most other countries. In the autumn, the Swedish industry's mood increased to the highest level in three years, according to the purchasing manager's index. Foreign direct investment is increasing. Boverket now reports that the pace of housing construction has increased and is the highest since the million-dollar program days. 64 000 new homes have started to be built this year. The large budget deficit left by the bourgeois parties is almost wiped out, according to the latest forecast by the Swedish Financial Control Agency. And we are all pleased in this House that the share of public debt in GDP is decreasing. But, as several speakers have mentioned, there are many questions about developments in Europe and the United States, due to Brexit and the victory of Trump in the American presidential elections. It is then important to have strong public finances and order and order in public finances. The Swedish model is based on a general, tax-funded welfare. The government's efforts on welfare are historic. Let me give you some examples of what we have done halfway through our term of office. We have made an investment of 10 billion a year in welfare. We have strengthened the security systems, including the removal of more parentheses in health insurance. We have made special efforts for children through, among other things, free medicines, contributions to glasses and free dental care up to 23 years. We have improved the housing allowance for old-age pensioners and reduced the pensioner's tax by up to SEK 250 per month. In addition, we have removed health care contributions for people over 85 years of age. By investing heavily in welfare, we create a more equal, fair and successful society. It is a well-proven way of achieving long-term growth in the economy. Mrs. Old President! In order to balance the budget and to be able to afford all the reforms, the tax has to be changed. It is 25 years since the tax settlement was made. Since then, there have been over 500 amendments, and there are hundreds of exceptions and special rules. It is of the utmost importance that we have an efficient, fair, predictable, transparent and simple tax system to administer. We must therefore review the tax system in the future so that it becomes both modern and continues to provide us with the tax revenues we need to finance welfare and social investment. Some of the committee's proposals involve changes in the tax area from 1 January 2017. The cut-off line is changing. The RUT deduction is extended to the repair and maintenance of household appliances. The travel allowance's amount limit is increased from SEK 10 000 to SEK 11 000. The income interest on the tax account changes. The energy tax on electricity for larger data centres is lowered. An excise duty on chemicals in certain white goods is introduced. The excise duty on beer and wine is increased by 4% and on spirits by 1%. We redo the rules so that employers report monthly income for each employee. Right should be right. Moreover, it strengthens the serious companies so that they do not become out-competitors by rogue companies. This is also something that the Big Industry Group, an association of employers' and trade unions and trade unions, has long been calling for. Mrs. Old President! In the past, tax law had in many respects a much stronger connection with economics and financial science than it has today. If you read Tax News, you get a clear picture of the issues that dominate research: tax agreements between countries, standards for transparency and exchange of information, and tax evasion. The trend is that the issues of tax evasion and tax evasion are increasing in the academic debate. That is also the case in politics. That is what we are doing in the Tax Committee right now. Work on implementing the government's ten-point anti-tax evasion programme continues. In the budget, we propose increased resources for the Swedish Tax Agency's work against cheating and tax evasion. International cooperation against tax evasion and tax planning has been going on for a long time but has increased, partly because the so-called Panama documents became known. We Social Democrats welcome these new rules and procedures. Cooperation within the EU and decisions in this House on tax agreements between countries are very important. It is also a way of supporting and helping developing countries. The government and the opposition do not agree on tax policy, but I believe and hope that we agree to give priority to the fight against tax evasion and unfair competition. However, it is not possible to believe that we can solve this by reducing taxes. Mrs. Old President! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-700	Mrs. Old President! As far as fiscal policy is concerned, the government parties are becoming clear: everyone should be involved in paying more. Although the government promised not to raise taxes for ordinary people, the tax on nurses, police officers and teachers is now rising. We are reducing the RUT sector, we are increasing the tax on petrol, we are taxing distances and we want to tax flights. It wants to make it less profitable to own a company – I will come back to that – and it wants to raise the tax unilaterally for the 85 000 people who work in banking and insurance. Now the government is taking the next step and is proposing breathtaking tax increases of 5 billion for Swedish small entrepreneurs. It is a huge blow to Sweden's job creators, the small and medium-sized enterprises. They are the ones who create four out of five jobs, as we in this House now know. The government is talking about more resources for welfare, but it is only through more people in work that we ensure the security of those who need it best. Through a tax policy that knocks out jobs, the government is endangering schools, preschools and security. Why does the government go after Sweden's job engine? Why is it prepared to risk financing our common security?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-706	Mrs. Old President! During the debate, there have been numerous discussions on new taxes. The government has set up a number of investigations that have come up with proposals that are now being referred to and which are then likely to become government proposals once the proposals have been reviewed. Then we can discuss whether these tax increases are unfair and so on. Today, the main issue is two different budgetary options. One of the budget options includes a traditional moderate budgetary policy with reduced taxes. It stands in clear contrast to the government's policy, which invests in welfare. You should have learned after eight years in the majority that your only medicine, reduced taxes, does not create more employment. Why don't you change your tax-mercy policy? It didn't work during your eight years.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-709	Mrs. Old President! 120,000 new jobs matter. It has been a winning concept, and we want to continue with that. That is why we continue to reduce taxes on those with the lowest income. I asked about the taxes on entrepreneurs. It was an investigation we set up, not the government. We added it because we wanted to make it easier to make generational shifts in companies, for example within the family. But as soon as the government took office, it chose to give the investigation new directives, and these directives were clear: Increase the tax! Raise the treasure! Raise the treasure! I am pleased that Jörgen Hellman is now expressing some doubts as to what proposals the government will actually make. Well-managed public finances we have been into the debate. It was a Swedish parade for a long time, but it is now in danger of being eroded. Jörgen Hellman and I have just taken care of the fact that we should have a surplus target in public finances, and that is based on good times that now save a little that can be used in tougher times. Overall, however, you should go plus. Now we have a boom, which is not the result of the eleven months that the government has run with its budget. That means we should put aside some for worse times. But you don't, you have an underfunded budget. Not least, the Swedish National Audit Office is concerned about this. They are deeply concerned that a budget has been presented which borrows to get the plus and minus to go together. Back to work. What does Jörgen Hellman think is a better investment than the one in the job creators? After all, they are the ones who contribute to our future security, which I was talking about in a previous speech.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-715	Mrs. Old President! Let me start with the 3:12 rules. There's been an investigation, and it's going for a referral. Then a preparation takes place in the Government Office before the proposals come to Parliament and we will see who these proposals are. I can see that one thing that I get a lot of argument for is that one could, for example, simplify for generational change and that sort of thing. There are a great many issues concerning company rules that need to be highlighted and looked at before there is a proposal to this House. In terms of how to create jobs, investing in labour market and education policies is an important part. Today we can see that there is an imbalance in labour market matching. There are 100,000 jobs that are not filled due to the fact that drivers, organisations and the public sector do not get the person who is suitable for that job. It is clear that a responsible government will then have to add these funds to education and labour market policy, and this government will. Now budgetary options stand against budgetary options. If we look at your budget option, we do not see those efforts to improve matching. You only have one medicine, and it's reduced taxes.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-719	Mrs. Old President! We live in a troubled time. Since last autumn when we had a budget debate in this House, there are a number of worrying things that have happened in our surrounding world. We had just this summer's Brexit. Many of us are concerned about how European cooperation will work in the future. We have just had a presidential election in the United States that is described by many as the dirtiest ever. We also have here in Sweden a discussion about the debate and the dialogue between each other. We have a Syria that is still burning and growing refugee camps in Turkey and Greece. A few months ago, the Tax Committee was on a trip to Oslo. We listened to an economist from Swedbank, Harald Magnus Andreassen, who gave a lecture. He described the world as unusually stable, which contrasts very much with what I just said. Among other things, he referred to inflation, unemployment and public finances. Developments often go several ways at the same time. There are many things that are new, many that are chaotic, but much is also as it has been. Youth unemployment in Sweden is lower than it has been in 13 years. Despite the fact that we previously had lower youth employers' contributions, which are now removed, we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. It was not chaos when the reduction was abolished, but the other way around. Nor is it now one of the bourgeois parties that stands by what was described as so important in the electoral movement. One of the major challenges facing us is the establishment of new arrivals who have come to Sweden. Politically, we must resort to many different measures to face it. We know that the single most important explanation for whether someone gets a job or not is about upper secondary school qualifications. It is more important if you have it than where you were born, if you ignore those who have come so recently that they have not had time to learn the language. Further training in addition to upper secondary school qualifications is of course even better and strengthens opportunities even more. However, many others also require other types of labour market policy measures for them to enter the labour market. The budget presented by the government includes reforms on the job side and also on jobs that do not require too high qualifications. There is a tax reduction for repairs and maintenance of white goods. There is a reduced VAT rate for easier repairs of bicycles and clothing. It can also be an important part of a circular economy where we recycle things. We're putting in place a single-man VG support. Hopefully this is something that we can extend to include limited liability companies in the future. Another important reform, perhaps not primarily for newcomers but to attract companies to Sweden, is that we lower the electricity tax for computer halls. Last spring I visited Norrbotten and heard about the potential that exists. I know this is an important proposal. The fact that we now also regard it as a new basic industry that is given a level playing field as what we have previously considered as a basic industry is very good. This is something that allows a large part of Sweden that supplies us with electricity to a large extent to get it back in a reasonable way. We will also have more jobs if we have more start-ups. One of the most positive political events of the last year was the climate agreement agreed by the countries of the world in Paris. The climate issue is the issue of destiny that it is most important for us to be able to deal with quickly. It is important to break the trend with increased emissions. When I have read the various draft budgets available, I have noticed that several parties are also proposing on the opposition side that the polluter should also pay for it to a greater extent. Perhaps this is the beginning of a discussion on a new tax reform that can be seen between the lines of the various proposals. The government announced yesterday that the tax on solar electricity will in principle be abolished. There will also be future investigations to be presented. The environmental budget in Category 20 is 73 per cent higher than it was in the year of the alliance government. There are still two parties, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, whose budgets are clinically clean, or perhaps unclean, when it comes to the environment and climate. There are two parties that have completely missed the potential of the transition that is taking place. Worth noting is also that the Moderates budget in a way that should not be done with dynamic effects. They have budgeted for reducing fraud in the travel allowance to give 300 million next year and 1 billion in the long term without making changes to the system. It is not a way we should budget. The Moderates also want to abolish the possibility of group registration of VAT that exists, which would affect not least Länsförsäkringar and smaller local savings banks around the country. Combating tax evasion is important. The budget proposal proposes that monthly data at individual level should be reported in the declaration. It's an important way to get away from undeclared work. We also allocate funds to the Swedish Tax Agency to tackle tax evasion. The black economy that exists and is widespread in some places must be combated through targeted missions through collaboration between authorities and by focusing on this both politically and from the authorities. The government is taking action in this area. For example, we have seen how increased cooperation between authorities has enabled the enforcement officer to strike quickly against, for example, motorcycle gangs that have debts when the police, another authority, have made other checks. I would also like to point out that with the draft budget presented, advertising tax will be reduced. It is important for the survival of the media around the country, which is an important issue for democracy. Of course, it does not solve the whole problem, but it is a step along the way. It is a step that has taken a long time to take. It is basically based on an announcement from the beginning of the 21st century that we should have decided long ago. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-734	Mrs. Old President! I regard the Green Party as a party that is in favour of freedom of choice. This applies in any case to the Green Party in Halland, where we have had quite a lot of cooperation between the Alliance and the Green Party. One is too free enterprise, and I would say that one has the focus that depending on how one bakes a dough, the bread will be different in size. What I see the Green Party doing in a government position to prove itself capable of government is abandoning this picture. It's gonna be weird in my head. There is a discussion about the limitation of profits. They want an entrepreneurial tax that is harmful to small businesses. The aim is to remove the reduction in employers' contributions for young people. You want more people to pay government taxes. I would like to ask how Rasmus Ling sees this in some way creating more jobs. Have you abandoned the very idea that depending on how to bake the dough from the beginning, the bread becomes different in size? It seems that the Green Party has now bought the views of the Social Democrats and the Left Party: The bread is just as big no matter what you do. It's just a matter of eating as much as possible. I do not believe that the Green Party has dealt with this issue in the past, so it would be interesting to know what the Green Party thinks.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-738	Mrs. Old President! Now bread baking is not my strongest qualification. I think it is an example of how we can make good use of the market and buy services where it is they who are better at something that can deliver what you need. Freedom of choice is something that is extremely important, Larry Söder. The possibility of making a profit will remain with the investigation proposal put forward by Ilmar Reepalu. Freedom of choice is not something we are discussing restricting. On the contrary, we have had discussions in Malmö, where I come from, about perhaps extending freedom of choice and making it mandatory to choose a school, among other things to get a better mix of student composition. You're taking up youth unemployment costs. I want to send that ball back. After all, you have withdrawn the proposals that you pushed through when you have seen that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years and that this did not have the effect that you wanted to achieve. Youth unemployment has fallen just during the period that has passed since we removed it, and we have seen that other things are of greater importance. As far as the income tax increases are concerned, we are making a change. We are cutting taxes, but we are doing so by 1% instead of raising the threshold by 2%. I find it hard to believe that it is something that would cause someone to quit their job or something like that, because it has quite small effects – a maximum of SEK 100 per month if you earn the most. I therefore do not think that this is a major issue in this context. The money is needed for several other things.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-742	Mrs. Old President! It can be noted that the number of young people has decreased in Sweden. Therefore, it is perhaps not the government's policy that makes it a smaller number of young people who are unemployed. The metaphore of bread and baking is actually quite striking. Like Rasmus Ling, I am not the world's best at baking bread, but with government policy we may have to take a course and learn it. No one will want to start a company that bakes our bread if we keep increasing taxes in this way. In fact, this means that in one way or another you are trying to ensure that small businesses do not come into existence. That's what you do when you constantly create new treasures and hunt everyone. I get a little tired when you take this all the time as a fight against tax evasion. You make it a portal clause so you can do anything. I am convinced that all parties in Parliament want to fight tax evasion. But make sure that those who are ordinary entrepreneurs are not affected in the way that is happening! I would like to know: where is the limit for the Green Party to increase taxes in this way without your reaction? Is it so important to always sit at the meat pots and decide instead of going after your ideals? I believe that limit has been reached a long time ago. I understand that the Social Democrats and the Left Party do not think so. But I had more faith in the Green Party, if I'm to be honest.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-746	Mrs. Old President! I am pleased with the great trust Larry Söder has in the Green Party in this area, and I do not think he has any reason to be disappointed. It is important to combat tax evasion and tax evasion, not least for reasons of competition. It should not be the case that those who cheat, have black labour or do not pay their VAT can exploit it and sell buns at a lower price than those who behave. That is not how we want the market, and that is not how we want society. We want the justice system to work. We are strengthening this by, for example, submitting the declaration monthly, and that is what we need in order to achieve healthy competition in the business sector at both local and national level for larger companies. That's something that's important.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-749	Mrs. Old President! We need a policy for the whole of Sweden. It should be possible to live and grow in cities but also in rural areas. Outside metropolitan areas, it is a challenge to make jobs grow, and it is a challenge that we must face up to. But we must also make it possible for people to spend time and make ends meet. The Green Party has traditionally said it stands for a policy that enables small-scaleness and a life outside the big cities. But in a government position, the Green Party presents a policy that strikes on a point-by-point basis precisely at those of us who live outside the big cities. For those of us who live in a small town outside Södermalm, life has not become easier with the Environmental Party in government position. Not least on the tax side. The increase in petrol and diesel taxes, which will continue to be raised quite properly annually, is already a reality. When you have no alternative to the car, you have no alternative: There will be higher taxes. A flight tax is also being investigated, and the government has initiated a kilometre tax on transport. It's not a tax on emissions, it's a tax from a distance. It hits the countryside hardest and the city centre the least. It is about the transport of milk and bread, which we have already debated a lot here today. And it is always ordinary people who are affected; the price is put on consumers. How does the Green Party's tax policy benefit us outside the big cities?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-754	Mrs. Old President! The fact that we have a policy for the whole country is absolutely crucial for us as a whole to be able to strengthen ourselves economically, environmentally and socially. Something that separates the Moderates' proposals from what we put forward, which strengthens the conditions for the whole country, is the 10 welfare billions that the Moderates have said no to. One detail that I have read in the Moderates' draft budget is that you, for example, want social services to make regular home visits to check people who are unemployed. It shows that the Moderates do not know what it looks like for social services around the country. You give a new, extra task from here without adding any money, which makes the conditions even worse. Furthermore, the Moderates have not understood the potential of the transition that is taking place and that we must continue with. We are investigating a road wear tax because it is something that is needed for more efficient transport and for more transport to go by rail instead of road, but it is also something that improves the situation for Swedish hauliers who today have a tough time in competition with foreign hauliers who have significantly lower wages. It is so typical that the Moderates say no to this instead of seeing the potential of Swedish companies and riders driving around our country.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-758	Mrs. Old President! As far as welfare efforts are concerned, I think there is some misunderstanding, because we are investing more in welfare than the government does. It is easy to deliver beautiful words and visions, but it is much more difficult to make them a reality in government positions. We absolutely believe that environmentally dangerous activities should be punished in different ways. Technology, innovation and environmental friendliness must be promoted. So do we in our budget, and we invest in cost-effective and smart solutions to benefit the climate. But that is not at all the approach of the Green Party when it is part of the government. Then the proposals are repeatedly blunted and directed in the wrong direction. Instead of hitting the environmental villains, we are being beaten with rather sharp precision at those of us who live outside the big cities. It hits companies, and it creates regulatory problems. That's one thing you say and another thing what you actually deliver. I noted that in his main speech Rasmus Ling expressed some concern about how Länsförsäkringar and others in the financial sector who have a large presence in rural areas would suffer from some of our draft budgets. I find it interesting that Rasmus Ling brings it up, because it brings me into the planned financial tax. It is therefore intended to be put on those who work in the financial sector with banking and insurance. It is therefore particularly hard for those who have a business model with a large presence in rural areas. How do the Green Party and Rasmus Ling view that tax?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-762	Mrs. Old President! The fact that the banking sector, which in a round roll made 100 billion in profit after tax last year, can pay a little more when you are totally VAT-free, I do not think is a strange thing. It does not have to hit the local savings banks that are important for business and businesses around the country. What I wonder about is the abolition of group registration of VAT which you are removing in your draft budget. It is specifically the banks with local offices around the country that are affected by it. This is a very bad policy if you have the ambition that Sweden will also live outside Södermalm, as it is so often referred to. Maria Stenergard points out that we want to target environmental taxes on those who really destroy. However, it cannot be seen in the budget what it would be. On the contrary, it is the slaughter of all the environmental and climate investments contained in the appropriations, and the economic instruments with which the government is moving are basically rejected across the board. I think you can do better than this, and I hope you will do so by next year, because there is a potential in the transition that you should also see and be able to seize.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-766	Madam President, audience in the gallery and all of you who listen and watch this debate on radio and television! I wanted to start my speech by telling you something about my parents. Both my troops are from former Yugoslavia. They came here as labor in the '60s and '70s. My mother started working as a cleaner and then continued as a factory worker. My dad used to work as a fitter, spray polisher, and a factory. We have been a poor family with low incomes, but my parents have worked and worked hard in Sweden to contribute to Swedish prosperity and to give their children an opportunity to grow up in this country. Like many other migrants and Swedish workers, they have meant a great deal to the Swedish welfare society. Today, both my parents are worn out. They have backs that do not hold and kr oops that have been noticed by the working life, because their job has been the heaviest and most toiling but also the lowest paid. Today, Dad is a pensioner with an extremely low pension. My breast-feeding is pre-retired because of wear and tear injuries to the shoulders and back. Both have always paid their taxes. They have never had any luxury deductions, simply because the deductions are not for the most important ones in our society. It is not the poorest who deduct interest. It is not the poorest who use ROT and RUT deductions. It is not the poorest who receive the travel allowance. Nor are it those with the lowest incomes – who have worked in industry, as cleaning women and in health care – who have benefited from the abolition of wealth taxes, that property taxes have in principle been abolished or that inheritance and gift taxes have been removed. It is the richest people in our society who have benefited. On the contrary, they have had to pay more tax than many of the people who are currently in work because of the unfair and disparate job tax credit. But my family has had a good time in Sweden. There has been a social safety net that has been crucial. My brother and I had to stay with a summer mom in the summer so that we wouldn't just grow up in the concrete in town. My mother has received housing allowance, we have received multiple child allowances and we received support when our parents divorced. There has been a working preschool where my brother and I could be left early in the morning, because when you work at the factory you go up at 15:15 to leave your children early to get to work and stamp on time. You cannot take time off to help your children at any time or visit the doctor and so on. The functioning preschool and the functioning healthcare system have been crucial. My family has simply had it as d e the vast majority of the working class. They are people who have done the right thing but who have been affected by the rigged tax system that benefits the very richest in our society and disadvantage those who need society the most. Today, my parents and many in the working class are experiencing a deteriorating social safety net. They are experiencing a deterioration in care and greater insecurity, and they are simply doing so because welfare is structurally underfunded and cannot deliver what welfare needs to deliver to take care of all of us in our common society. They are concerned about their children, their own future, their pension and how to survive. They are just like many of their neighbours nervous and afraid of the development in Sweden. How are they gonna get the money to do it? Such as my family, ordinary working-class families, sometimes single, with low incomes and laborious jobs, are those who have lost in eight years of bourgeois tax-benchmark policy. But they benefit from the left-wing reforms that have been implemented in recent years' budgets. They understand what it means to have a society that is connected and that also takes responsibility for them. They think it is entirely reasonable to raise unemployment funds, improve social security and invest in municipalities. That is why they can never imagine worsening the welfare society. They see that they benefit from a welfare society with reduced gaps. But that is also why they can never imagine voting on the proposals of bourgeois parties, which repeatedly dots wrong. The only answer that the bourgeois parties have is reduced taxes, in most cases for the richest. When it comes to the continued division of our society and the RUT contribution that the bourgeois speak hot for, it is such as my mother who will clean in the homes of the rich. Then the rich should be able to make deductions for it, while her welfare deteriorates. All these tax reductions, all these deductions for which the bourgeois turn are financed by savings and deteriorations of the unemployment fund, health insurance and labour market policy. All that is my mother, my father, my family and their neighbors and friends dependent on. The policy of the bourgeois is clear class politics, and it strikes the working class. The joint budgets and previous budgets presented by the Left together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party contain many important things. 10 billions of wealth are vitally important for expanding well-being and permanent reinforcements in the local government sector. In this year's budget, there are clear wordings on economic equality, stricter wordings on tax evasion and tax evasion. Not least, the targeted effort that we in the Left has made in terms of the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority getting more money to combat tax evasion is important. I am grateful and happy that the bourgeois parties also accept this initiative. This has not always been the case. I miss a tax evasion commission. But we can come back to that and implement it in the future, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Some have also been done on the tax side over the years. But that's not enough. It is gratifying that the investigation of the Left Party's proposal on bank tax has now arrived. I assume that the government plans to introduce it shortly. We need an increase in taxation from those who can bear it and who have the highest incomes. We need to invest in our society and make it stick together, make the gaps narrow. Everyone should be able to trust that they receive care and support when they need it. Everyone should be able to trust that preschool and school work. Everyone should be able to trust that society is there when they need the help of society in order to have a better life. It is worrying that the economy is going well but that not everyone is allowed to take part in it. The gaps have increased for a long time. Unfortunately, when the government manages the inherited tax policy, the Social Democrats preserve a system which the bourgeois parties have rigged for the rich. According to many economists – including Stefan de Vylder, Kenneth Hermele and Agneta Stark – Sweden is today one of the best tax havens. There is no property tax, hardly any property tax and no inheritance and gift tax. The interest rebates benefit the richest. There are ROT and RUT deductions for those with good income. There are also no sanctions for those who have hidden money abroad. That is what three prominent economists say about Sweden. All corporate tax deductions mean that Volvo and Electrolux pay less corporate tax in SEK compared to many small traders and small businesses. This is something you realize Social Democrats. If nothing else, your grass roots and voters will. The big question is: why do you do nothing about the rigged tax system that you have inherited from the bourgeois parties? You know, like us, that it is difficult to cope with equality and prosperity with a rigged tax system. You know that there is a need for substantial investment in our common welfare. Why are you, together with the Green Party, on the right side of these questions? Why are you extending the RUT deduction? Why do you maintain tax incentives such as interest and ROT deductions? We have to do something about this. Although much in this year's budget is good, I would like more in the area of taxation. I wish the budget would be as offensive as previous budgets that we have presented together. But the government has unfortunately rejected many of the Left Party's offensive proposals in the negotiations. We have proposed lower interest rebates, reinstated property tax and progressive property tax. There are only three of our proposals to create a fair, solidarity-based and redistributive tax system that increases equality, challenges the economic divides seriously and creates an economic policy for all, not just for the very richest. I hope that together we can tackle these problems seriously in future budgets. I know you Social Democrats feel the same way. It's time to take up the fight against the right. I'd like to conclude with a message from my mother. She's a mother of four who's been working and working all her life. Her name is Paca Sestrajcic. In almost all elections, she has voted for what she calls Olof Palme's party. She says:"Tell Stefan Löfven that he and the Social Democrats will lose many more votes if they do not do better for the workers. The rich also have to pay and not just slip away. They should pay more taxes. " Now I hope that you Social Democrats, including Mr Jörgen, will tell your Prime Minister that it is time to roll up his sleeves and deal with this. Together, let us ensure that even the richest pay more in taxes and that they cannot evade their responsibilities!
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-789	Mrs. Old President! We are now going to deal with the Justice Committee's report 7 Extended possibilities for migration courts to hand over cases. As a representative of the Liberals, who are the only party with a reservation in the report, I would like to clarify briefly our position on the matter. We're basically not making any other assessment than the government. We do not say no to the proposals put forward. On the other hand, we believe that we should be able to go much further. A lot of people have come to Sweden in recent years. This places a heavy strain on the reception apparatus and asylum process of the Migration Agency, but also on what is dealt with specifically in this report, namely the Migration Courts. We have four immigration courts, administrative courts, and a migration court. It is the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. All experience shows that long waiting times in the asylum system pose problems for people's integration later on. The Swedish parliament, including the government and our authorities, has an extremely important task in ensuring that the processing times are shortened, so that people can be told more quickly. You are either told that you can stay or that you have to leave Sweden. It is important that people can get faster information. We believe that the proposals contained in the proposal and the proposals of the majority of committees in the report are inadequate. The proposal shows that various consultation bodies point to the importance of considering further measures, in addition to the legislative changes now proposed. We share the opinion of the consultative bodies. We really want two things. The possibility of redress must be reduced when it is known with certainty that there will be rejection. In order to obtain an appeal, there must have been some specific error in the assessment of the Finnish Immigration Service. And when it comes to cases where virtually everyone receives approval, such as asylum seekers from Syria, the process must be speeded up. When the person has clear identity documents and there are no security objections, Sweden should be able to grant temporary residence permits much faster, even through written procedure. It is our view that we should be able to reject and approve more quickly in cases where the decision is clear. I would like to emphasise that this does not mean that we want in any way to restrict the right to seek redress. The effect of the change that we are proposing is that clear rejections should not be granted leave to appeal and therefore not examined in substance a second time. We also make it easier for people from Syria who can prove their identity and that they have fled from there or from any other war area. If there are no security objections against these people, they will be notified more quickly and more quickly to be integrated into Sweden. With this, Madam President-in-Office, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1 from the Liberals.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-798	Mrs. Old President! This report deals with increased opportunities for migration courts to surrender cases. Which court has jurisdiction to hear a case is governed by forum rules. The court which today has jurisdiction to hear a case under the forum rules has limited opportunity to refer the case to another court. In the preparatory work, it has been stated that the general possibility that exists today to refer cases between the courts if there are special reasons for this is intended for individual cases. The rule cannot be applied systematically. Since the establishment of the Migration Courts, it has proved difficult to bring about an even and predictable flow of cases, both over time and between the courts. Furthermore, the migration targets are many in number and can also be expected to increase significantly in the coming years due to the sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers who came to Sweden in 2015. A large influx of cases, combined with an uneven division of cases, can lead to temporary large balances and thus long time-limits in a court, while at the same time there may be unused capacity in another court. The report proposes that the possibility of handing over migration targets be extended. The Law on General Administrative Courts introduces provisions allowing an Migration Court to transfer one or more cases to another Migration Court dealing with such cases, if this can be done without significant inconvenience to any party. The Government considers that the more generous provisions on surrender cover all cases dealt with by the Court as a migration court. Handing over should be allowed where it can be assumed that the case or cases cannot be decided by the competent migration court within a reasonable period of time and another migration court is in a position to settle the case in question more quickly. The forecasts suggest that all migration courts will have a large influx of migration cases in the coming years. There is thus a risk that the scope for a single migration court to receive migration cases from another court is limited. It is likely that the enhanced possibility of handing over cases between the migration courts proposed does not constitute a sufficient measure to keep the length of proceedings in migration cases at a continued reasonable level in the event of the current high level of litigation expected. Further action is therefore needed. A less interventional option is that the administrative courts that are migration courts may also hand over cases other than migration cases to a greater extent than is possible today. The Government points out that several of the major types of cases, such as social security cases and cases under the Social Services Act, are dealt with by all administrative courts, which means that such a scheme can have a significant impact. The Government therefore proposes that an administrative law which is a migration court may refer one or more cases to another court dealing with such cases, if necessary in the light of the length of proceedings of the court. It is also proposed that the Administrative Court of Appeal, which is the Migration Court, be allowed to transfer cases to other Administrative Courts. This is a good order that is being introduced, and a united committee says yes to the government proposal. As far as the reservation is concerned, since the reserveer is no longer here, I would like to say on the record that I understand, of course, the desire for shorter processing times in migration cases. The committee believes that the conditions for successful integration are improved by the fact that residence permit issues are being examined as quickly as possible. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of the objectives being dealt with in a legally secure manner while maintaining quality. It is also important that everyone who applies for asylum in Sweden has their protection needs tested on the basis of the individual conditions in the individual case. As far as asylum seekers from Syria are concerned, it can be noted that the absolute majority are granted a residence permit already at the Finnish Immigration Service's examination. It is therefore at the Migration Agency that these cases have generated large balances. The committee notes that the government is following the issue and that a number of measures have been taken to ensure that the time allowed for processing is as rapid as possible. As can be seen, the Minister for Justice and Migration closely follows the measures taken by the Finnish Immigration Service and that they have a positive impact on the duration of proceedings. I assume that the government continues to act proactively and is continuously considering measures to reduce the processing times at the Migration Agency. Against this background, I believe that there is no reason for Parliament to take any action on this matter today. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-817	Mrs. Old President! One might think that today's report, Extended opportunities for migration courts to surrender cases, is pure bureaucracy. Then you're right and wrong. It is about administrative laws and the four administrative courts that are migration courts to have a more even handling of cases while shortening the processing times. But basically this is part of improving the integration of asylum seekers who are granted a residence permit in Sweden. It is also important for mental illness. Last year, the National Board of Health and Welfare produced a report showing that 20 to 30 percent of the country's asylum seekers suffer from some form of mental illness. It is not unreasonable to assume that some of the reasons for this are the long processing times that unfortunately appear to be increasing. Research has recently studied what is called post-migration stress. It is about how the first time in the country affects the individual. In this context, researchers have expressed their opinion that there is likely to be a link between long processing times and asylum seekers' mental well-being, and that vulnerability increases the longer the waiting periods become. The mental condition in turn plays a major role in the ability to learn Swedish, educate or get a job and eventually establish itself in Swedish society. Moreover, it naturally leads to human suffering in itself. The fact that processing times have increased, including at the Migration Agency, is a consequence of Sweden having received a large number of asylum seekers not least in autumn 2015. Although the Migration Agency is now managing to become more effective, the average processing times may, unfortunately, continue to increase before they fall again. That is why, Madam President, I welcome the efforts of the government. This applies to the Migration Agency – for which it has been presented today and for which this matter is not really a matter – and the next stage, the Migration Courts. In fact, the Government's proposal gives the four migration courts the permanent opportunity to even out the amount of cases between them. For a period of three years, the four courts shall be able to transfer cases, such as social security or tax cases, to other administrative courts in the country. In this way, unused capacity, which may temporarily exist in some courts, will be able to be used at the same time as the workload of the migration courts becomes more reasonable. Of course, sending targets back and forth is not always a good idea. The reason we do not have this system today is that it is basically good that the cases are handled by a court that can be predicted and that is close, not least if oral hearing is needed. I therefore welcome the fact that the Government has clearly included in the proposal that surrender may take place only if it does not cause considerable inconvenience to any party. Mrs. Old President! We are arguing and bickering about a lot in this House, but if there is anything that most of us agree on, it is that we need to improve the establishment of new arrivals. We must ensure that those who flee to Sweden and receive a sanctuary are welcomed into society and given the best possible conditions to become part of society. Although it sounds bureaucratic, increased opportunities for migration courts to hand over cases are one step and one step in this important work. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report and the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let me conclude with a few words on the Liberals' motion request, Madam President-in-Office. Liberals no longer want government decisions from the Finnish Immigration Service to be able to get a new review, except in some cases. My view is that this risks being contrary to Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is also the subject of the committee. The Convention assures any person that, when examining his civil rights and obligations, he is entitled to fair public hearing before an independent and impartial court. Then, in my opinion, it is also necessary to appeal against decisions of the Migration Agency. It is also important in cases where it is not clearly unnecessary that oral hearings can be held and that there is transparency in the judgment in the form of referees. For this reason, I propose rejecting the motion and the reservation.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-829	Mrs. Old President! Today's debate on increased opportunities for migration courts to surrender cases is ultimately the result of major international changes in Europe's southern neighbourhood. Crisises, conflicts and tensions over there affect us here at home and create a pressure for change. This has led to record refugee flows at international level and also to 163 000 people applying for asylum in Sweden last year. All forecasts now indicate that pressure on the migration courts will increase. It is estimated that approximately 25 000 cases will have to be decided by the Migration Courts in 2017. It's tripled since 2015. Today's debate, however, is not only about global world changes, but also about a government investigation that the previous government set up. It presented its final report in November 2014. The investigation aims to modernise and streamline the Swedish administrative process by opening up the possibility for different courts to transfer cases between each other. There are strong reasons for calling for approval of the bill: it is well founded because it reflects our increased migratory pressure, and it has a government investigation in its back that gives it credibility. Ultimately, of course, it is a question of reducing the processing times for cases to reasonable levels. If we do not succeed in this, it will lead to increased suffering and greater insecurity for those people who are not told. As previous speakers have said, it also creates challenges for future integration. It is positive that the proposal contributes to a more efficient use of the overall capacity of the Swedish courts as the work becomes more flexible. The burden can be evened out between the different courts and a better balance in the length of proceedings can be achieved. In substance and form, this means that an immigration court should be able to hand over migration or other cases to the administrative court. This also means that the Migration Court of Appeal may transfer cases other than migration cases to other courts of appeal. The proposal is limited in time to three years, which is important to take on board. The proposal provides an opportunity for the Migration Courts – however, no Migration Court is obliged to do so, but it determines each Migration Court itself based on the priority given to handing over different cases. Legal certainty must be central to these issues. It is therefore established that handing over can only take place on condition that it can be done without – as it is said – causing considerable inconvenience to any party. It is up to the Migration Court to decide this. For example, in the case of oral proceedings, there may be reason not to transfer a case. At the same time, we know that the issue of where people live is not as central in migration cases because the people in question are not permanently resident. Finally, I would like to say that the forecasts, which I started with, on the global challenge of increasing migratory pressure, the efficiency and flexibility of our administrative courts and, above all, the objective of reducing the length of proceedings in migration cases are in favour of our calling for approval of the bill. Mrs. Old President! I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-837	Mrs. Old President! Today, the Committee on Economic Affairs is debating the state-owned companies in Sweden and their role. In some cases, there may be reasons why the state is the owner of a company when this has a societal function and social responsibility, such as LKAB. But the main task of the state is to set up rules and frameworks for companies. When the state owns companies, this should be done with great long-termness, transparency, accountability and high demands for clear principles that must be continuously respected and followed up. It is therefore important to regularly review the state portfolio of companies, as is done in a report once a year. This will assess whether there are other actors who can better develop the companies. The State must not compete with private companies in functioning markets. The Alliance government reduced government ownership over eight years and used the proceeds to pay off the public debt so that future generations will not be burdened by an unnecessary debt burden. The efficiency and profitability of companies have also often improved following a decline in government influence, while investments have increased. The foundation of Moderates' industrial policy remains to create the conditions for more new companies and more employers who can and dare to hire. Today, there are 50 wholly and partly owned companies which are state-owned and subject to the ownership policy which sets out the international guidelines to be followed by all state-owned companies. In 2007, the Alliance Government imposed a requirement for state-owned companies to report sustainability reports annually in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. The guidelines have since been extended, and three years ago the Alliance Government took the initiative to enable all these state-owned companies to develop sustainability efforts, strategies to achieve them, and an objective to increase value and reduce risks within state-owned companies. In 2014, work started to follow up the companies' respective sustainability goals. We want to continue to strive for sustainable and long-term management of state-owned companies. There is no reason for the State to be the owner or shareholder of one of the companies that has other ownership skills and can do this much better than the State. These companies should then be phased out gradually. Mrs. Old President! We live in a challenging world to say the least, and there is a great deal of work to be done. That is why I regard it as strange but also worrying that the government sees government companies as a primary source of revenue. In one year, between 2014 and 2015, the government took out SEK 1.7 billion from SJ. In spring 2015, a dividend of SEK 230 million was paid from the company. The government took twice as much in a year as the alliance government did in its eight years. In other words, it was 15 times the average over the alliance years. At the same time, when Sweden suffers from an acute housing shortage, the government collects more than SEK 7 billion from the State Academy House, whose mission is to manage universities and colleges and contribute to the construction of new student apartments. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. If the government has the opportunity to withdraw SEK 7 billion from Akademiska Hus, this suggests that the rents that are taken out may be wrong. There's also one thing you have to think about. The rents taken out by Akademiska Hus can be too high. The universities themselves testify to an unreasonable renting. At the same time, the money collected should reasonably be reinvested in university buildings and in the core business supporting new research. The consequence of what happens to Akademiska Hus is that they in turn have to raise rents to meet their mission from the owner state. As a result, a municipality that rents from Akademiska Hus suddenly leaves money for rent in order for the state to make a profit. Let me come back to social responsibility and state-owned companies. Postnord doesn't work the way it's supposed to. It's as simple as that. One market is being replaced by another. Then I mean that we will less often use the paper form to send letters. Today it is becoming increasingly digital. This undoubtedly has consequences for a company whose purpose is to deliver mail in paper form and packages to customers. Postnord is a state-owned company that bears a social responsibility: to reach out to customers every day with packages, logistics and letters. But after the stinging criticism that has been levelled at Postnord's actions in the autumn – it's about letters that don't arrive and bills that disappear so that people get caught – it's necessary to overcome Postnord's social responsibility. Ultimately, this is a state responsibility for the future and ownership. The government must ensure that the company complies with its commitments. The number of complaints received from private individuals and companies against Postnord has risen in just five months from 5 600 to 7 500. It's going the wrong way. At the same time, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) has reported a remarkable deterioration in Swedish postal handling, which is also confirmed by the European Commission's postal services investigation. A well-functioning postal management is a fundamental function of our society's infrastructure. When it does not work, it can have devastating consequences for individuals. We know this too. The little man suffers when bills are not paid. The government must now seriously as the owner of Postnord ensure that the business is to be trusted. Mrs. Old President! We welcome the fact that the government has initiated the sale and disposal of the State participation in SAS. In October, 19 million ordinary shares were sold, reducing State ownership in SAS. That's good! An airline operating in a free and open market should not be kept under the arms of Swedish taxpayers, whether SAS succeeds or fails to keep its costs down or attract enough passengers. The story tells of an airline that could not be sold because it went too well or went too bad. Time has never been the right one, which is wrong. It is good that the government divests ownership of SAS. The invitation to the government is to sell the state's share of the company. It would also be desirable to clarify the government's long-term plan for the company beyond the 180 days that are now locked before further steps can be taken. Mrs. Old President! The task of the State is, and must be, to set out the framework and rules that apply to business and businesses, not to own and operate businesses. With the continued existence of State ownership, the State would continue to act double. In the end, it will be as if the referee in a football game were to play in the game that he judges at the same time. With the bill put forward by the alliance government in 2007, the distinction between the private and public spheres has become clearer. We believe that a reduction in state ownership is a prerequisite for a vital business life where competition takes place on equal terms. The proportion of state-owned companies in Sweden has been at risk among the largest in the OECD and in Europe. State ownership where there is cause for State interference shall be continuously evaluated. It should be permeated by openness, good ethics and responsibility. In those areas where there may be grounds for reconsideration of state ownership, this should be extremely serious and well worked out. For those state enterprises that are subject to a specific social mission, these principles must be clearly stated and accounted for. Finally, the Government has the task of safeguarding the ownership policy of state enterprises, implementing the decisions taken in this House and being prepared to listen and reconsider its view of state ownership where it may be desirable. I support the Alliance's reservation No 1.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-854	Mrs. Old President! For the Swedish Democrats, the overall objective of state ownership is primarily to ensure citizens' security, investment and long-term general interests. The aim is to increase freedom of choice and provide everyone with good goods and good, affordable and accessible services without abusing our natural resources. Basic functions must be ensured throughout the country, whether in the case of infrastructure or other services. The state will manage our joint properties with great values in the best way and provide employees with good working environment, good conditions and good development opportunities. We should be an example of responsibility for both the environment and health. We see that our state-owned companies remain at the forefront in terms of value creation, ethics and responsibility, but also that state ownership has a balance and regulatory responsibility to enter healthy competitive conditions in markets that are unsoundly regulated. Although we believe that private enterprise is the cornerstone of the Swedish economy, state ownership is important for the overall social mission. The synergies of private and state ownership are therefore of the utmost importance. However, we see the value of these synergies not being disrupted by unhealthy competitive relations between the private and public sectors. We do not see the sale of state property as an ideological end in itself. Nor do we stand for the opposite – that, as a matter of principle, certain activities should be carried out in state-owned companies, although they could have been carried on privately. However, there are state holdings which, under certain circumstances, could be reduced and where state ownership cannot be justified for the benefit of citizens. We have a pragmatic approach to the holding of companies in the state portfolio and are prepared to have a dialogue about which companies the state should own and what the state should own. On the other hand, we are strongly critical of the divestment of state holdings and ownership on the grounds that financial gaps in the state budget need to be filled. We see state ownership as a long-term investment for the next generations. If the government cannot set up a real budget, and the result is large costs in different areas of expenditure, the funding should not, of course, take the easy way in the form of divestments or looting of companies. Mrs. Old President! During the election campaign, the Green Party was one of the parties with a high tone of voice regarding Vattenfall's German lignite activities. They had a de facto attitude about leaving the coal lying, as if it had been up to Swedish politicians to decide this. Instead, after the elections, the challenges of reality were met in government. Then the tone was completely changed. After the government received a request for ownership coordination of the German lignite business, it agreed to sell lignite at the beginning of the summer. I think it is a good thing that in this report the committee and also the Green Party, which is in agreement with the decision of the committee, note that the sale of lignite was strategically correct. But the question is where the Green Party is today. It is sad that you are not here now defending your sobering and turnaround on the issue. The Swedish Democrats are positive about the sale of Vattenfall's German lignite plants. It is fully in line with our idea that Vattenfall's role and focus should be shifted from expansion abroad to protecting the Swedish electricity supply from a long-term perspective. In the report we also have a reservation against Sveaskog's decision to use nearly 2 000 hectares of forest around Tiveden's National Park in an alternative way, which has been chosen to call adapted felling. In our opinion, this should be seen as the company's setting up a buffer zone around the national park. This is because German tourists complained about a bare house a few hundred metres from the border to Tiveden National Park, which led to the tourist companies appealing to Sveaskog to change their forestry so that they could get more satisfied tourists. As a result, Sveaskog now expects to lose about half of the revenue from the forest to create these buffer zones, which makes it difficult for the company to achieve the economic objectives set by the State as owner. We believe that the issue is, in the long run, bigger than that and that other forest owners also risk being affected in many places if this type of buffer zone becomes widespread. It is highly conceivable that such a signal can become a norm-making one, with buffer forests, for example, around communities that are to be felled and around other parks, nature reserves and areas that are considered to have a social value. It raises questions about how individual forest owners will be affected in the future, which would be most unfortunate. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats want Sveaskog to reconsider its decision but also that it should not in the future decide on additional buffer zones. With this, I would like to support reservation 2 in the report. Of course, we support all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for it to be approved.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-867	Mrs. Old President! I've been a little worried I'd forget about the titula, but now I've told you. I would like to begin by calling for the Alliance's Committee motion 2016/ 17:3123, concerning the management of state-owned companies. I would also like to support the Center Party's motion 2016/ 17:2976, which states that in Vattenfall's ownership directive there should be an addition to the company's social responsibility. I do not need to say to those of you sitting in this Chamber that the state has a very large shareholding. But for those who watch or listen to this, it may be interesting to know that the state wholly or partly owns 50 companies. Within these companies there are 163,000 employees, and the companies represent enormous values: approximately SEK 460 billion. Moreover, the majority of state-owned companies operate in competitive markets in a wide variety of areas. Both the Center Party and the other alliance parties consider that the role of the state is normally to set out the framework and rules for business and business, not to own and operate business. There is basically a built-in problem in state ownership, and that is that the state has two roles, i.e. sitting on two seats at the same time: both as a legislator and as a company owner. However, since the state is such a large shareholder and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future, it is important that the companies are run in a long-term professional, value-creating and not least sustainable way. Several of these companies also have important social assignments, where the focus is not only economics but also other benefits for society. However, it is also important to point out that when state-owned companies operate in a competitive market, they should also operate on market terms to ensure effective competition. There are also, as we all know, very high expectations of how state-owned companies should behave. I think that's good. In all respects, state-owned companies must set an example, not least in terms of remuneration to senior executives, gender equality work, environmental commitment and social responsibility. I find it very interesting to say that during the time of the alliance government, the focus on gender equality in the state companies increased. As many as 49 per cent of the board members of the wholly-owned state-owned companies are women, while the share of the listed companies is 29 per cent. As regards the chairmen's positions on the state boards – i.e. in the wholly-owned state-owned companies – the proportion of women has also increased, from 23% in 2006 to 46% in 2015. This compares with the share of listed companies in 2015, which was modest 5 per cent. Mrs. Old President! Unfortunately, for a long time, we have seen the dismantling of services and jobs in rural areas, and here the state bears a great responsibility. I find it strange that the current government, which at the same time has high tails and says that the whole of Sweden should live, does not use the state companies to complement weaker markets. In fact, the state has a great opportunity, through its companies, to carry out a regional policy that is unfortunately missed by weak governance. For example, SBAB Bank, a wholly-owned public limited liability company that competes with other banks. Not long ago, SBAB decided to leave corporate customers north of Dalälven to their fate. In other words, SBAB no longer wants business customers in rural and small towns. Now it is Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö as well as major growth or higher education locations that apply. Minister of Industry Mikael Damberg has no objection to this; at least he says so himself. Is it not strange that we own a state bank that is so uninterested in large parts of the country? One might ask why the state should own SBAB. Is there a need for a state bank when it exists only in functioning markets? The Social Democrats will be happy to answer that question. Another example is Inland innovation. It is an example of how the government avoids using a state company to create a regional policy worthy of the name. The government completed this special initiative earlier this year. Inlandsinnovation was a company that with its 2 billion in the portfolio had the task of providing venture capital to companies in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna. The effort came about because these areas have a weak supply of venture capital. Nevertheless, the government felt that the money should be transferred to a national company without special consideration for weaker venture capital markets. This is likely to lead to additional venture capital being put in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö at the expense of rural areas. Mrs. Old President! Another example of a company that could be a tool for the government to create a sustainable regional policy is Vattenfall AB. A large part of the renewable energy in Sweden comes from hydroelectric power in the north. It is produced locally but is one of the most important prerequisites for Sweden's common prosperity. Only in Jokkmokk's municipality are eleven hydroelectric plants, one of which is Harspånget, which is Sweden's largest. Although this small municipality contributes such great values to Sweden, it is one of the poorest municipalities in the country. Therefore, it is very provocative that Vattenfall is now flagging to outsource more than 40 jobs at Vattenfall Accounting in Jokkmokk. This would be a severe blow to the com munication and correspond to approximately 7 000 jobs in the Stockholm municipality. When you make this comparison you get perspective on the impact of the decision that the company Vattenfall may take. Most people who work at Vattenfall Accounting in Jokkmokk are women, and many of their respective weekly commutes to work in a mine. If Vattenfall closes its administrative activities in Jokkmokk, it is very likely that entire families will choose to leave the area. This would mean an even greater blow to the municipality and its economy. It is not acceptable that a state-owned company, which also has such large assets in the area, should not hesitate to move jobs away from there – this without any social responsibility whatsoever. The issue of social responsibility also applies to the town of Vuollerim, which is located in the same municipality. This is Europe's longest dried water channel, 17 kilometres long. This has been the case since the 1960s, when the Royal Swedish Waterfalls Board, today Vattenfall AB, built an underground tunnel to lead all water from Lilla Luleälven to Stora Luleälven. This resulted in an increased height of fall and greater efficiency. This replaced the natural waterway, and since then no water is released along the 17 - kilometer [17 km] dry furrow down to Vuollerim and Porsi power plants. The local population along the Lule river valley has since the expansion struggled to regain a small amount of water, so-called environmental drainage, in the dry furrow in Lilla Luleälven, but Vattenfall has refused despite the possibility and despite the fact that it once actually promised to take into account the district, industries, natural values and population, boating sites and fishing rights. In this case, Vattenfall refuses to keep what it previously promised and does not accept its social responsibility. It puts the economy of the countryside at a disadvantage, with the full potential of fishing tourism and biodiversity. The Center Party believes that Vattenfall should take greater responsibility for society and proposes that this be included in the company's ownership directive. The government can decide that, i.e. if you want to.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-885	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by stating that, as we now go through the report NU4, State-owned companies, the differences in the perception of how the state should manage and manage its companies become apparent. There are everything from individual moderate-labelled movements that want, for example, the entire Sveaskog to be sold out to sports that indicate that the state should not normally own and run companies, as well as a little softer interpretations that indicate that the state should be an active owner, whose task can be interpreted to only give maximum dividends without disturbing the market. The Left Party, however, believes that the state should use its ownership of state companies to serve societal purposes. The requirement for profitability in state-owned companies should not take precedence over social benefits. We believe that the social benefit should always be the focus of the ownership strategy, while the companies should of course be economically efficient. In cases where important social interests conflict with the profit requirements of state-owned companies, the objectives of the ownership strategy shall be reviewed. Furthermore, we point out that the potential for further processing in Swedish industry is generally large, which would increase the number of jobs, reduce transport and increase export revenues. State-owned companies should promote increased processing with the aim of creating jobs and increasing export revenues. Both the forest industry and the mining and steel industry have the potential to increase their processing rate. It is something that can be promoted through active government governance of state enterprises, increased research and collaboration with the rest of the business community. A good example of how cooperation between state-owned companies and private business can work is the business cooperation between LKAB and SSAB. Cooperation generates thousands of jobs in the country and contributes to regional development. If Sweden is to be able to stay together and create conditions for development throughout the country, there must be equal basic conditions regardless of where you live. The state-owned companies are jointly owned by the citizens and therefore, in my opinion, have a special responsibility for people throughout the country to have equal access to services, healthcare and other essential functions of society. I therefore believe that the ownership directives for several of the state-owned companies need to be developed on the basis that the societal benefit should always be the focus of the ownership strategy, while the companies should be economically efficient. However, it has been shown that, for example, several executive directors of state-owned companies, including Vattenfall, SJ and Apoteket, are on the boards of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and its organisations, including Almega and Svensk Handel. I think that this is very strange, as these organisations have campaigned extensively against government policies, for example, with regard to the abolition of youth discounts on employment and the limitation of RUT and ROT deductions. Especially paradoxical is this relationship when the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has expressed its active resistance to state enterprises themselves. According to a report from the trade union ST, the state companies spend huge amounts of money on fees to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. According to ST's calculations, this is about as much as between 30 and 50 million SEK per year. I also believe that it is directly inappropriate for business associations to receive a direct sour cream for state companies in this way. Our view is that socially-owned companies should behave neutrally and should therefore not be members of such associations. Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning infrastructure is crucial for industry, exports, regional development and people's travel. In our view, well-functioning and well-developed rail traffic that puts the traveller at the centre is of central importance for achieving a sustainable transport system for the whole country. For such a focus, SJ AB, which is a state-owned company, is required to be given the opportunity to prioritise social benefits before short-term profit interests. Mr President, I would like to Now I come to an area or industry where I have been making a living for 30 years before the parliamentary mission, namely the forest. The state ownership of forest is spread. One of the companies, Sveaskog AB, is Sweden's largest forest owner and manages 4.1 million hectares of land. I believe that the state ownership of forest areas should instead be brought together in a company. The new forestry company should have a sustainable use of forest resources and not just yield as its main objective. Sveaskog could well take on the task of being the company that collects the state's holdings of forest land. Furthermore, I would like to point out that this company could set an example in the artefact of combining forestry with other social interests without, for that matter, jeopardising future levels of felling or the quality of the forest stock. Then I would like to state with determination that an industry that has the task of managing natural resources whose circulation time may be up to 100 years should not be governed by quarterly reports. This complicates the long-term planning that is essential for sustainable ownership and use. Instead, the return requirements for such companies should follow a longer period, such as five-year periods. Therefore, I believe that the ownership directives for the state companies responsible for natural resources with longer circulation times should be revised in order to ensure that the yield requirements follow a longer period of time. When it comes to Sveaskog's operations, I have seen clear signals from places where the company seems to choose to harvest significantly younger forest stocks than previously. I would like to point out here that the yield to the state has increased despite the fact that the price of timber has fallen during the same period. This is another sign that the company has changed its view of sustainable use. I therefore believe that Sveaskog should return to the government and explain its actions on this issue. There is one more thing that I think the owner has neglected when it comes to corporate governance or follow-up. Sveaskog has, through its Ownership Directive, a mandate to sell land until 10 per cent of the area it owned when it was formed in 2002 has been divested. The intention was that sales would lead to increased development in sparsely populated areas. The Swedish National Audit Office's report Sveaskog AB and its mission, RiR 2010:8, state that the government has until now been too passive in its follow-up of the company's various assignments. Nor has the government followed up on the consequences of Sveaskog's land sales programme. I find it remarkable that such a large-scale sale of government property has not yet been examined. It is a strange act regardless of the color of governments. Mr President, I would like to Now to our flagship Vattenfall. That company has a lot of good in it, but it also has a dark and less fun history behind it. I am thinking of a few motions from the Alliance that I have read through and how they claim that they have constantly improved the governance of state-owned companies. All I have to do is say Nuon... and you'll probably stop stretching. Regarding lignite sales, our vision remains. This should be withdrawn in view of many aspects: the classification of materials, the risks of climate change, the highly inappropriate buyers, etc. The list could be long. The same is true of Vattenfall's lawsuit by the German state. Here remains our view: the rule of law should not deal with such things. Large multinational companies should not be able to override the nation's political decisions in terms of health, the environment, labour law or anything else that a nation considers important to its welfare and woe. With regard to the rule of law such as Sweden and Germany, there is no need for dispute settlement mechanisms, but the legal processes of the countries should be able to resolve these disputes. I'm gonna talk to you about Vattenfall at home. Jokkmokk – what kind of thoughts does that raise in you? For me, Vattenfall is highly associated with Jokkmokk. The company has the nerve to try to sniff the resort at additional jobs. I am, of course, talking about the 40 jobs in invoice handling that are currently there. Outsourcing is threatened, even abroad. It is another example where active control of the owner would not harm. The same is true of the 17 - kilometer - long, dry river at Letsi and Vuollerim, mentioned just now. A little taping of water in the fairway would have major positive effects on the area. With regard to these towns, which contribute to our welfare, if we wanted to, relatively small measures could be of great benefit to local people in Jokkmokk and Vuollerim. Curiosity: I can mention that I met Vattenfall's former workers who said that something was about to happen. It was a bridge construction and a little bit of this bottling. But after the Nuon deal, it got quiet. It is a little curiosity that I mention because I am supported in this matter by a party. It feels good. Mr President, I would like to In most cases, I am obedient to the rules. This means that I intend to highlight only two reservations, although I think all our reservations are important in this case. I request the approval of Amendments Nos 4 and 9.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-908	Mr President, I would like to As in the case of Birger Lahti, there has been an improvement in the governance of state-owned companies. You can look at the journey historically. There was no record of how it was to be done. The Prime Minister could pick up the phone and call to have company discussions. No papers were found in the house when you went through it at the time. The sustainability objectives were introduced in 2007. But it's not said that everything in the world is perfect. But if we're going to be honest and talk about what's real, let's say they were introduced in 2007. New additions came in 2013. This measurement was then introduced in 2014. It has then continued with the objectives of the current government and the UN. It's a trip where we're going. We're getting somewhere. That's right, isn't it? Or does Birger Lahti mean I'm lying when I say it? I would like an answer to that. Then I would like to ask Birger Lahti about the dispute settlement. It's a legal process. Now we're talking about Vattenfall in Germany. Vattenfall asks whether the German state has the right to do as it does or whether Vattenfall has the right to receive money when a state rescheduls its energy programme. It's nothing weird. It has also happened in Sweden when Barsebäck was closed. That was when an economic solution was found. Eon got a bigger share in Ringhals, and Vattenfall got its share. It is no wonder that financial agreements are made. I'd like to know how Birger Lahti sees it. Those who are the final owners of state-owned companies are our people. Are they simply to be left behind without examining whether they are entitled to financial compensation?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-911	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte, for requesting a line! Actually, I was expecting it. Then I'll get a line change with someone anyway. First of all, there is the question of government governance. Yeah, I'm sure something happened after 2009. But if the government had been intertwined, someone would have come to the KU and answered questions. The Prime Minister avoided the questions. I think the management of Vattenfall's Nuon deal was bad, and I think you agree. You might say that something has happened, but you took over power already in 2006. Would not a party defending corporate governance have seen something from 2006 to 2009? I don't think you were the best in the class anyway. Then there is the dispute settlement mechanism. If you had listened to my speech, you would have heard what I said about the rule of law such as Germany and Sweden. I agree that we should look at this. What effect did it have? And what would a legal process, so to speak, land in? That there would be some mechanism for countries whose governments are uncertain or something else I could somehow understand. However, I do not agree with the fact that Germany and Sweden would need a dispute settlement mechanism to sort this out. I agree that we should look at this. But I think that the ordinary processes in the rule of law Germany and Sweden should be able to handle this. We do not need a dispute settlement mechanism for that.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-915	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we can enjoy things a lot, even if we have similar or different opinions. But we must take the reality in which we live. There is a well-designed system for resolving matters. There is a legal mechanism, a dispute settlement mechanism, which countries should use in cases where economic conditions need to be clarified. Then I think you can use it. The alternative is to go home and not ask at all. I do not know if those sitting in the gallery want to get rid of Swedish tax money because we have not asked whether we have the right to bring them home. That is what this is all about. Vattenfall manages this itself as a company. I don't understand why you shouldn't ask the question. I don't think it's anything strange at all. We have a legal system in Sweden. We may feel that we do not need it either, but some good does. It will always be needed at different times. It is good to have these agreements in place so that you can resolve matters the times you need to do so. I guess it's good that there's a system for that. Then I have to correct Birger Lahti again. It wasn't 2009. A job was started when it came to the government building. It'll take some time. In 2007 the sustainability work started, and the rules that would apply to companies were developed. I agree that the Nuon deal was not a good deal at all. It was a bad deal. The difference in what Birger Lahti mentions about the legal mechanism is that there was a market, and it was not seen to change. All of a sudden they shut down nuclear power in Germany. They're getting shale gas from the United States. The whole market is affected. Then you make an investment that becomes wrong and expensive. Here we know that we have opportunities to get money. Then we say: No, thank you, we won't even try it. I don't understand that way of reasoning.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-920	Mr President, I would like to It is not news what I think about the dispute settlement mechanism. I have said this in previous debates. I'll say it again. It is about the rule of law such as Sweden and Germany. Maybe there'll be some kind of process like this. However, a dispute settlement mechanism that we do not fully understand is not needed in the rule of law. That is my opinion. And then it's a good thing that you, AnnAnn-Charlotte, talk about getting rid of tax money-- maybe there's listeners here and radio listeners. You mentioned in your speech that you sold parts of state-owned companies. Yes, you did. You said you cut public debt that way. But you forgot to mention what the taxpayers thought about it. You sold what the state jointly owns, companies or parts of companies. You sold assets from the state. Then you lowered the taxes for the most wealthy people in the country. You forgot to mention it and then you left government position with a deficit in the state budget. It was a deficit even though you had sold assets. There was a deficit at the end of the year. The tax cuts went to the wealthiest in the country. You forgot to mention it when you wondered what taxpayers think about selling our common assets.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-923	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are the Social Liberal Party of Sweden. Our party is based on an idea of keeping two thoughts in mind at the same time: a social perspective to protect the weakest in society and a liberal perspective, because we love to see independent individuals grow, develop and start businesses. The combination of these two perspectives into a well-balanced whole is the foundation of social liberalism. In the balance between the social and the liberal, we have unfailing optimism and confidence in man and the society that we have created together to uphold citizens' rights and freedoms. We believe in man, and we believe that the market economy is one of the main forms of individual self-realisation, a market economy strengthened by certain means of control and a public framework if confidence between individual and market is at risk. We see the value of a strong public sector. But in our perspective, it can never be the role of the state to own and run businesses. We in the Alliance believe that the role of the state should normally be to set out the framework and rules that apply to business and businesses, not to set up and own companies. Companies should be owned and run by people, people who dare to take their own risks and realize their dreams. The state should be there as a safety net if the entrepreneur's dreams don't come true. The state will help the one who has stumbled on his journey. What the state should not do is lay the hook for entrepreneurs or use its extensive resources to run businesses and compete with the private business community. Nor should the State use the state enterprises as a dairy cow when the Minister of Finance emptied the barns to finance an industrial chancellor or set up another discussion club for taxpayers' money. Mr President, I would like to I have been an entrepreneur, and I feel the conditions for entrepreneurship. I feel these joys, but at the same time I remember the times when it was hard to create jobs and growth – the times when one not only had to push against a heavy regulatory burden but also had to witness unfair competition from public companies in a private market. Mr President, I would like to The state-owned company Akademiska Hus, which has been mentioned here a number of times, is a major property owner in many smaller communities at home in my West Sweden as well as in the country as a whole. The long-term and predictable nature of state ownership generally praised does not fit in with this case. I cannot say that the company acts as a necessary and complementary player in an arena that must be supported by state ownership. What I can say, however, is that the company acts as a dairy cow when the government decides on another aggressive dividend to hide the holes in its own budget. Colleagues! It's fun and it's rewarding to run a business. The problem is when politicians choose to run businesses with taxpayers' money for their own pleasure. One example is Tolkförmedling Väst in Västra Götaland. It is a frightening example of how public actors can beat away the bones of an entire industry. We must be constantly vigilant, from the point of view of the public, about the consequences of our actions. When we debate in this House how our state-owned companies should be run, it cannot simply be from the perspective of creating long-term values and being an active, professional and responsible owner of these companies. The perspective must be broadened to those companies in the market affected by State ownership. For example, does the state have to own an airline that flies to holiday destinations, sometimes with a State Secretary who wants a few days' vacation? Does the state have to own its own train operator who sometimes engages in noisy lobbying against its own owners? Does the government have to own real estate companies and, at the same time, do its utmost to make as much of their surplus as possible before the government's own investigators prohibit profits in welfare? Having said that, I and the Liberals can say that the state will remain a major shareholder for a long time to come. Where this is done, ownership shall take place in an exemplary manner. The state-owned companies should focus on creating long-term values, and the public should be an active and responsible owner. In cases where the companies have a social mission, this shall be performed well. At the same time, state-owned companies will lead by the good example and take the lead in terms of sustainability, transparency and inclusive entrepreneurship. The reforms of the Alliance government in the Global Reporting Initiative, for example, will continue, as will the work on a more even recruitment of the board in terms of experience, background, age and gender. Mr President, I would like to State corporate ownership is not desirable for a liberal who believes in man and in the capacity of the market. If a more efficient public service can be achieved through a reduction in state ownership, the state should do just that. In our alliance motion, we mention a few examples, but more may be relevant in the future. The common denominator here is that any sale should be made on a commercial basis and that the proceeds should be used to pay off the public debt. This is a more responsible management of public resources than thinking, as politicians, that free wills can be ruled in a free market. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Alliance's motion 3123. At the same time, I regret that the Green Party is not taking part in the debate. I look forward to our business debate on 12 December.
i-SWHDTLtWFSUwBVVUTrfUXp	Mr President, I would like to According to the guidelines adopted by the Riksdag as early as spring 1996, i.e. 20 years ago, the following main principles apply to the management of state-owned companies. Work must be carried out under conditions of efficiency, return on the capital represented by the company and structural adjustment. The management of a State-owned company shall be carried out on the basis of its business objectives, shall actively monitor the development of the company and shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the company complies with the requirements of efficiency, return and structural adjustment. Applying the state's ownership policy in dialogue with the other owners if you own something together with others goes without saying, as does applying the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. We in the alliance parties would like to emphasise in particular the importance of complying with these policies and principles. Mr President, I would like to We can well note that it has become particularly interesting to look at these instructions, policies and guidelines during the last six months, when the debate on Postnord has sailed up a lot – one with very few statements by the responsible ministers Mikael Damberg and Peter Eriksson about the problems that Postnord faces and how it is supposed that Postnord will fulfill its basic mission: to deliver packages and letters to the inhabitants. In a presentation to the committee a few weeks ago, Damberg stated that PTS, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, as the supervisory authority responsible, will carry out an evaluation at the beginning of next year and that it will then take the necessary measures if it turns out that the quality is not up to date. Nevertheless, I have to ask a question, and I would have liked to have done so with Mrs Damberg present in this House. We're on our way into December. December is a month when it takes an extra amount of those who will deliver mail in both letter and package form. There are many of us who want to send Christmas cards and other greetings. The question is, do we dare do it? Is there any point in buying Christmas stamps and hoping that the consignments will actually arrive? Should we hire couriers and encourage competing postal companies to show off by delivering all consignments for Christmas? Or are there deliveries all the way to Easter? There is reason to believe that the management of Postnord did not have sufficient control over the organisational culture created, either before the merger with the Danish post or through it, which meant that individual employees proved to be handling postal items completely without respect. The storm that rages on social media, with countless stories of things that have never reached the recipients, is real experiences that are expressed. Whether they are incomplete sorting systems with run-in problems or individual employees with poor judgment in how to perform their task, the management needs to take a strong stance to regain the public's confidence. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have made a request in their business movement that a review should be carried out of the development of all state-owned companies and public authorities in terms of external participation in procurements and the creation of new business activities. Obviously, the public has an important task in promoting innovations that emerge in Swedish companies. The large volumes that can be procured do a lot for the country's economy by providing Sweden with taxes and charges from trade. The Government has launched a national procurement strategy that, as I understand it, will contribute to and be a natural part of the business development of the contracting authorities in the state, municipalities and county councils. But is it only the authorities who should be responsible for this renewal? Is it not equally important that state-owned companies contribute to the purchase of new, innovative products and services? Mr President, I would like to During the past year, Saminvest has been created. It is a fund-in-fund solution for state venture capital financed by the liquidation of two companies, Inland Innovation and Fouriertransform. The report of the study proposed a green fund that would focus in particular on environmentally friendly and sustainable companies. But it was not decided to do so. It is therefore interesting that Almi has now been given extra capital to invest in this area. It is, of course, good for new business ideas that can be created and get capital from there. But the question that arises for me is whether there were more proposals from the investigation that were not decided by Parliament but that were put in a little here and there somewhere else. It has turned out to be a trend with the current government that if you do not get your proposals through directly to the Riksdag, you redo them and ensure that they are implemented anyway. We were last able to see this in the spring with regard to support for the works councils. The fact that there is also an ongoing not only surreptitious socialisation but a resocialisation of the country through many of the measures taken by the government in the corporate context is quite clear. I cannot help thinking about some of the companies the state owns, because of what I have just mentioned. On the list of companies accompanying today's report, the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry is responsible for only one with the title. It is AB Bostadsförsäkringar, owned by the state and Sweden's Byggindustrier. According to the website it has no active activity for several years. Then Fouriertransform and Inland Innovation should also be in liquidation, if their capital was needed to start Saminvest? Or maybe it didn't matter – perhaps they wanted to phase them out anyway? It could be a question that gets to hang in the air. We can also note that in the column, there are 12 out of 41 companies under the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry that do not have economic targets. Maybe there's a reason for that. Maybe there are more owners or special arrangements. But most are actually owned only and to 100% by the state. It is also possible to question the ownership of certain companies. Especially the Swedish house in St Petersburg is an exciting construction of ownership with a company involved that cannot be obtained any public information about. I've tried; I've searched all sorts of sites to find out something about that company. I can't. How is it that Akademiska Hus, with many public tenants, or Vasallen, with a lettable area of about 227 000 square metres in five locations, is not redirected to prioritising, for example, residential building? Managers of office properties and business premises are numerous in other companies, which in that case could very well take over the business. Mr President, I would like to I will conclude by saying that we Christian Democrats want to see our common resources managed and developed in the most sustainable way possible. There is no intrinsic value in the fact that the state owns companies that other actors in society could run as well or even better. However, the companies that are still owned should be relevant to the state and its inhabitants and managed in the best way. I am no stranger that the Christian Democrats are proposing changes in the company stock in the future.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-961	Mr President, I would like to Swedish people's companies should be well-managed and act as good role models. What happens in these companies affects in a way all of us more than 9 million inhabitants. A guiding concept is sustainable development. This applies both socially and economically and ecologically. Companies should also be at the forefront of innovation and gender equality. All of this requires a great deal of responsibility, a forward-looking approach and a regular open follow-up. In the report, the committee examines the government's letter on the 2016 state-owned enterprise statement and 34 motion requests for state-owned companies from the general exercise period. During the preparation of the matter, Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, specifically on 25 October, provided information to the committee on the state's sale of shares in SAS AB, in accordance with the authorisation given by the Riksdag in spring 2010. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's draft report as a whole and reject the motion for a resolution on the matter. I would also like to add that the system of annual reports by the Government is based on a decision by the Riksdag of the spring of 1981. It is thus the 35th year in succession that the Riksdag is dealing with a letter of this kind. The aim is the same now as then: to describe to the Riksdag the state's corporate ownership and the values that exist in state enterprises. However, in the digitised everyday life that we now see as self-evident, it is also excellent to get a good picture of the companies on the Government's website, where business reports and interim reports are available. As Members of Parliament, we also have the opportunity to attend the annual general meetings, as some do. Nevertheless, let me highlight the following elements of a solid and comprehensive report: the state-owned companies, as mentioned here, have 50 wholly owned companies, of which 2 are listed. The state has a great responsibility for being an active and professional owner, and the overall goal of the government is for the companies to create value and, where appropriate, ensure that the specifically decided social assignments are performed well. The majority of state-owned companies operate on a commercial basis and operate on fully competitive markets. Often they play an important role in society, and most have once been set up as businesses, government businesses or state monopolies. Since then, the business has been incorporated with the aim of operating effectively and increasing the conditions for competition neutrality, and new private operators have usually sought this. It is sometimes said, as has happened from this pulpit and in motions from the Moderates, Liberals, Center Partyists and Christian Democrats, that the state should not really deal with corporate ownership. For my part, I would like to stress the importance of the state being an active, professional owner that can focus on long-term value creation. Mr President, I would like to There are a number of companies, namely around 25, which have an explicit social mission regarding effects other than purely economic returns. These include Systembolaget, Svenska Spel, Sveaskog, Samhall, Rise, SOS Alarm and Almi Företagspartner. I note that in the overall motion from the Moderates, Liberals, Christian Democrats and the Centers, only four companies are to be excluded from being considered as potential sales items, albeit they are the big ones: LKAB, Apoteket, Vattenfall in the Nordic region and Systembolaget. The rest, if I understand the intentions of the motion correctly, could risk selling out. There are many jobs and great values for which the state would release responsibility. I believe that this would be the wrong way to go for those who want a continued focus on sustainable enterprise, common value creation and gender equality – areas where the state as the owner is and can continue to be a forerunner. The matter is that the Government Office is constantly carrying out analysis work on companies with state ownership, and this can of course lead to changes or clarifications of assignments or orientations or, for that matter, to restructurings and discussions on continued ownership. State-owned enterprises shall operate under conditions of efficiency, return on capital represented by the company and structural adjustment. The goals that are set for the companies are tools to convey Swedish people's expectations of the state as owner. These are economic, mission and sustainability objectives. The mission objectives are set for those companies that have specifically decided on community assignments. For my part, I have visited a number of government companies during the year. J ag can mention a visit to a forest clearing on the border between Skåne and Blekinge, where in late summer I met a group of committed people. Some of them were born and raised in the area, while others were newly arrived young refugees from Syria. They worked together in a project launched by Sveaskog – all to highlight the forest industry as a future industry. It was integration, diversity and a way to try working life in the hope of attracting curiosity and interest in a career in the industry. Not everyone may be a forest worker or a ranger, but through the practice at Sveaskog they got a good insight into Sweden's green gold: the forest, which is an important nutrition. This is an example of a good initiative by Sveaskog in the integration work. Other companies that I have visited include Swedfund and Swedavia, and together with the committee we have also visited Postnord. What is emphasised in all contexts is sustainability and gender equality. To name another well-known example, Apoteket, it was named Sweden's most sustainable company. Samhall has received the European Business Award for the most sustainable companies. This is exactly how it should be: The state's companies should be forerunners in this type of work. In the light of motions 3123, 3128, 121 and 1199 on gender equality, recruitment to the boards of the companies and the goal that the gender balance should be my 40 percent of each gender, it can be pointed out that the letter states that it is important for the owner that the company boards are characterised by diversity and breadth in terms of age, gender, ethnicity, industry experience, academic background and profession. I note that in their motion, the Swedish Democrats are taking several steps backwards by resisting continued offensive work for more gender equality. In view of what is being said in the motion from the Left Party on the membership of state companies in ntresse organisations, it can be mentioned that the companies with state ownership are an important and obvious part of Swedish business and can be involved in influencing it in the right direction. In this House, the Minister for Economic Affairs has answered a question about this and has referred, among other things, to the rules of the government on freedom of association. The government places high demands on the companies with state ownership, not least on sustainable entrepreneurship, and the companies must otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-980	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Håkansson for the government's view on this. I would like to ask you a few questions, PerPer-Arne, about how you view this with being associated with the interests of Almega and the Swedish Trade Unions, which I mentioned in my speech. You mentioned it last time in your speech. The answer I received from Mikael Damberg when I had a debate with him on this was that this is an important part of how to act as owner of companies. However, one thing that still bothers me about this is that their annual accounts still do not know how much they pay to associations. You yourself mention that openness and transparency should be included. Do you not think, PerPer-Arne, that it is disturbing that the Swedish people cannot read themselves in an annual report how much they pay to interest organisations? I lean against the figures that the organisation ST has produced. I think Mrs Damberg even mentioned himself that this may not be good. You mentioned transparency and transparency. That's a question. You mentioned that Postnord is an important part. We have heard in some speeches how badly Postnord has been handled. There has been a lot of criticism. Do you, Per-Per-Arne, think it's okay for a state-owned company to use cabotage when it comes to transport? You think that's okay?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-985	Mr President, I would like to I thank Birger Lahti for the question. In terms of the annual accounts and what should be in them, state-owned companies comply with the rules applicable to annual reports. It is important, on the other hand, that they say in different contexts that they are a member of an organisation and are open with it. I understand that this is the case. We have, as I have said, the rules of the form of government on freedom of association. But of course you can have comments on it. It is perhaps appropriate for companies to be able to inform about this in some context, even if it may not be in the annual report. Postnord is a company that we own together with Denmark in a highly competitive market. We've discussed Postnord here before. As far as cabotage rules are concerned, there is a debate and discussion at EU level in which the government, through the Minister for Infrastructure, intends to take the initiative to tighten up the rules and ensure that we get a better order in the future. If so, Postnord will follow.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-988	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answers, PerPer-Arne Håkansson. I was going to press the cabotage issue a little bit. When you discuss the road wear charge, you want to get away from the driving that is illegal. We own 60% of Postnord. But you're just as big on the system when you use it, whether you don't have answers on whether they have the right conditions, how long they've been in the country and so on. I'm sure someone would react if I said the powerful words I'm thinking about. But I think this is a little awkward. I have time for one more question. Vattenfall has an billing part in Jokkmokk. Vattenfall is a state-owned company. D Invoice management in Jokkmokk with 40 jobs has been posted for outsourcing with bidding. But it has a symbolic value. The people of Jokkmokk and the Norrbottens have sacrificed a great deal for Vattenfall. It's also about 40 jobs. Does Per-Per-Arne not find it a bit disturbing that a board chooses to point this out? This has a great symbolic value. Even if it would be a few bucks cheaper to take this business to Poland, doesn't Per-Per-Arne Håkansson think it's a bit disturbing that Vattenfall – the largest company we have in government ownership – acts like this? Wouldn't it be good to have a dialogue with the board about not doing this? Does Per-Per-Arne Håkansson not find it disturbing that 40 jobs in Jokkmokk are threatened, while the owner is watching?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-992	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that, Birger Lahti! When it comes to this with Jokkmokk and Norrbotten, Vattenfall is now part of a cooperation project, as I understand it, where the County Administrative Board and the municipality are also involved in working on the issues and improving dialogue. I think it would be quite destructive to stand here and discuss whether or not it would be the spirit. I believe that the most important thing in this situation is to support the ongoing dialogue and ensure that it is as good as possible for the local population and for future development.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-994	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start at the end that Per-Per-Arne Håkansson raised about ownership of state-owned companies and when they do not own them but sell them. There is a word in the debate that I am allergic to: sales. Selling out is for me when you sell something cheap. I wonder if that is how you have done, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, now that you have sold shares in SAS. Are you selling them out, or are you selling them? For me, it is a sale to get the best value for what you want to sell, if you want to. It sounds at Per-Per-Arne Håkansson that we would sell companies every day. Anyone who listened to my speech heard me say that it is an owner who is long-term, but we must also constantly measure the companies against the market in which they operate so that they do not disturb the market or otherwise bear social benefits. That's important, too. Unless these parts exist, there may be someone else who can do this in a different way. You don't have to be unemployed because you work on the private side. Then this country would be in trouble. There are lots of people who are employed in the private sector. We belong to the Committee on Economic Affairs, and there is a great deal about entrepreneurship. I thought perhaps that in his speech Birger Lahti would highlight the dispute resolution mechanism in Germany. My question is how the Government Party sees the partner here taking a different view of the issue and pursuing a completely different line. At the same time, as Penilla Gunther says, I find it embarrassing that the other government party, the Green Party, is not in place when we debate the state companies. In my speech, I also mentioned Akademiska Hus and that the government has taken money from the company to use in other ways. In Uppsala, the municipality has properties.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1000	Mr President, I would like to There were many claims about commercialism. I think perhaps that for Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson it would be nice to have a certain humility in dealing with the affairs of the state. The deal with SAS has been handled in full compliance with the regulations, i.e. according to the new procedures and regulations that have been established since, for example, the Nuon deal became a discussion issue during the time of the alliance government and cost taxpayers big money. As far as commercialism is concerned, we can also look in the rear-view mirror and perhaps have views that Postnord has joined forces with the post office in Denmark, as was also the case under the bourgeois government. So, of course, you can have views on business afterwards in different ways. However, with regard to the latest deal, where we have divested some shares in SAS, it has been done in full compliance with the regulatory framework. It has also been reported to the Industry Committee quite recently by the Minister for Economic Affairs.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1003	Mr President, I would like to Dressy or not– I had a question about a concept used. Is it a sale? Or is it a sale? I do not mean that any government would deliberately sell out companies. Perhaps that is what Per-Per-Arne Håkansson means that someone has done, but I would never have that idea. Instead, I think it is important to talk about selling – if you want to sell companies. It's not certain you want to. We have a large number of companies, and we have a long-term perspective in it. Having said that, I will return to Akademiska Hus, which the municipality has as its landlord in Uppsala. The rent has increased quite substantially, and that suddenly means that a municipality pays money to a company that makes profits and that the state collects the profits. It will be a little interesting in the debate whether we are talking about welfare companies and whether or not they are allowed to make a profit. I would like to know how Per-Per-Arne Håkansson views that relationship now, in the situation in which Sweden is in. They make big profits and pick off the companies money to use elsewhere, and then the companies get to increase the rent for their own properties – which means that a municipality has to pay to the state. I also did not get an answer to my question how Per-Per-Arne Håkansson views the dispute settlement mechanism and that the Left Party has a completely different opinion and goes another way. And what's the Green Party?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1007	Mr President, I would like to In this post, I can continue the discussion on commercialism. It goes without saying that the business done by state-owned companies is conducted in a commercial, transparent and wise manner. I do not want to stand here and have views on exactly what has been agreed with Uppsala Municipality on the individual issue raised by Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. It is certainly an issue that will be presented in contexts where there is reasonable knowledge about the deal as such. As far as the dispute settlement mechanism is concerned, I can answer for the Socialist Party and the government as a whole. We stand for free trade, we stand for sustainable development and we stand for human rights. Human rights in particular have been the subject of one of the discussions in order to improve and strengthen the dispute settlement mechanism we have to work on in the forthcoming and ongoing negotiations on trade agreements.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1009	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your speech, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson! I would like to continue a little bit on the issue that our colleague Birger Lahti, among others, had, namely the issue of Vattenfall and the 40 jobs in Jokkmokk. When this became known, I went up to Jokkmokk– it was in August – and met the employees at Vattenfall Accounting, i.e. the administrative unit. The employees are doing an amazing job. They were very sorry that they were informed that their job might be outsourced. In my world outsourcing means finding cheaper alternatives, and where in Sweden do you do that? I do not think that there are very much cheaper local rents anywhere else or that the wages are lower in Skåne than in Norrbotten, for example, but to me it is obvious that Vattenfall is eager to move jobs to low-wage countries. We are talking about Vattenfall and state-owned companies acting sustainably, and I do not think this is sustainable. My question to Per-Per-Arne Håkansson and the Social Democrats is therefore: Are you prepared to add to Vattenfall's ownership directive that the company should take increased social responsibility?
i-5Vv3kvHCE8wvZrGyVkviu2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Helena Lindahl! Helena Lindahl pulls out and acts, and that is obviously good – we will be where the discussions and debates take place. However, with regard to what has happened and the information and reports we have received, I would also like to say that there is a dialogue between the parties concerned. Vattenfall, together with the County Administrative Board and the municipality, are handling this, and it is probably a sign that you have an open position on the question of how you want to work forward. Then we can have critical views based on various considerations that have been made, but the continuation of history is that there is now a dialogue and an investigation of it all, that is because we have a company that just takes responsibility in the general interest. It is good that Helena Lindahl is one of those who participates in the forthcoming discussions – I assume she will – but of course there are also representatives of interested parties.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1014	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the answer, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, but it is still the case that neither the county administrative board nor the municipality in Jokkmokk can decide whether or not the owner directives should be amended. You, me and this legislature together. In fact, it was not really an answer to my question, so I want to ask it again: Are the Social Democrats and Per-Per-Arne Håkansson prepared to make an addition to Vattenfall's owner directive that the company should take increased social responsibility? I would like an answer to that question. In fact, I think this is provocative, because Jokkmokk's municipality is in the ironing class – just like many other hydropower producing municipalities. You contribute so much to the state of Sweden's welfare, but you get small crumbs back. I do not think this is acceptable. First, go with the cap in hand and ask the state for extra money to manage day-to-day operations, and then the state company – which is also involved in taking large resources in these areas – will also say that jobs will be outsourced. I think it's very strong. It is also unacceptable to me that the Social Democrats, who claim to be protecting the whole of Sweden, do not like ownership. Instead, it is said that it is the municipality, the county administrative board and Vattenfall that will solve this together. If a state-owned company goes out and says things like this even though it should work on sustainability, maybe it's time to make an addition to the owner's directives. I would like an answer to the question whether Per-Per-Arne Håkansson and the Social Democrats will support it.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1017	Mr President, I would like to In terms of ownership directives, and so on, there is a continuous review of whether they need to be tightened up or whether they should be proposed. On this issue, however, it is perhaps better, as Vattenfall, to be quick and to act in order to get the dialogue that is now taking place under way. That is a constructive way of dealing with this. It is quite easy to play a scenario with David and Goliat in this kind of debate and get sympathy in that way, but we probably need to see it in a context where the various actors in society interact. Then it is the municipality, the county administrative board and Vattenfall – as a responsible company – that are involved. The representatives who take part in these discussions are hardly tone-done for the debate and discussion that has been held so far.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1019	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I asked a number of questions about how the state and thus the government sees different questions about its companies and how to handle them. I also had a number of examples, which Per-Per-Arne Håkansson probably heard. One of the examples was in the case of companies in liquidation. I know that the Social Democrats are happy to talk about selling out and use such words, but here we can see that the Social Democratic Government, supported by the Green Party, has actually contributed to the fact that at least three companies are being wound up – we believe in any case. What would be the backbone of Saminvest, the long-awaited fund-in-fund solution for state venture capital, is not on the list under the word Of course it's one of the questions I'm thinking about. Saminvest's website does not contain a word about how it is intended with these companies. It seems that they are fresh and free and are just going to continue, just as if nothing has happened. I also wonder about what was in the same report, the State and capital, about the Green Fund. We did not decide on this, but Almi has received exactly the money that would be required to make that effort. I am not saying that this is wrong, but I wonder about the management of it all. We haven't decided this, but the government does it anyway, a little sneaky. If you happen to read a press release, you'll find out.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1022	Mr President, I would like to With regard to Inland Innovation and Fouriertransform, mentioned here, they are perhaps being phased out in the sense that they will eventually be phased out. But at this point, they're subsidiaries of Saminvest. The reason for this is precisely because we are concerned about the investments and commitments that have been made. Part of the basis for this change was that the result was not what was expected. If I remember correctly, the Swedish National Audit Office criticised this activity for that very reason. Based on this, we will see the creation of Saminvest as a way of supporting development throughout the country and as a way of ensuring that investments are made. This will create more jobs and growth.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1024	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that this was one of the strangest answers I could get from Per-Per-Arne Håkansson. I would like to hear from him where the decision was made to create the subsidiaries of Saminvest by the very companies from which capital should be taken as a starting point and distributed to others. The government has previously been very clear that Inland innovation would not continue to exist. My colleague Helena Lindahl has debated this a number of times here. The government also made a move last year to turn Fouriertransform's activities from the car industry into life science issues, which people opposed, for natural reasons. It's not just for a company to change the industry – in that case you have to form a new company. I would very much like to know where Per-Per-Arne Håkansson has got the idea that it would ultimately be a subsidiary that will support Saminvest. While we are standing here, I would also like to take the opportunity to ask Håkansson about what you have going on with the airline tax: How could this benefit the state-owned company Swedavia? The regional airports around the country – such as the one in Skellefteå – which are not state-owned do not have the same conditions as the airports owned by Swedavia. However, it is not for nothing that a flight tax would not benefit those passengers who wish to fly home when it is already expensive today. This would also affect Swedavia and its yield. What is this supposed to do?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1028	Mr President, I would like to Well, I guess that's jumping to conclusions about this flight tax thing. It is not something that has been put forward in any proposal yet, but it is one of the thoughts and ideas that have been present in a discussion about various things to finance welfare. I do not know how the debate on this particular issue goes. There is definitely reason to follow that discussion, see where it ends and not jump to conclusions, as I think Gunther has done here. With regard to the second question, about Saminvest, this publication – which we have had on our table for some time – states that Inlandsinnovation and Fouriertransform become subsidiaries of a new national development company. As far as I can see, this information has been provided in a good and clear way.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1030	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson said that the Swedish Democrats' proposal to scrap the figures about how many women or men should be on the state boards would be to take several steps backwards in terms of gender equality. The Swedish democrats absolutely do not agree with this. We are critical of all forms of quotas and positive discrimination on the basis of gender. We believe that practices of this kind in the framework of public activities should be that this should be phased out, because we basically think it is legal and morally problematic. This does not mean, however, that we would not think it a good thing that there is a certain dynamic in terms of different characteristics or competences in, for example, a company board. But here it is the other way around – in that case you select some pieces and do the selection only on the basis of an innate property. As far as the state-owned companies are concerned, there are a handful of them with more than 60% women on their boards of directors. In that case, some women would have to be phased out from company boards because they are not in line with the objective set for the recruitment of the board. The Swedish Democrats have no worries that it looks like that, but according to the government's objective, these women should be phased out. My question to Per-Per-Arne is why he and the Social Democracy think that women – with this objective – should be phased out from boards simply because they are women.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1034	Mr President, I would like to Why spend two minutes on this if the Swedish Democrats now do not think that there are problems with more than 60% women? I'm inclined to believe that you might think it's a problem. If so, this is a description of how you view politics. I think it is of great importance to stress that the state's companies, like the Swedish state in general, take the lead in encouraging and putting pressure on actors to be equal and to see the skills and people, regardless of gender or ethnicity and background. It is of great importance that we are driving this work. We have the world's most equal government. We have been at the forefront of this work in a number of areas, and I think it would be strange if this were not to permeate the activities of state enterprises as well.
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1036	Mr President, I would like to Dedicating to this type of numerical exercise as to how many women or men there should be and how the distribution should look – not linked to competence or whether the person is good – leads to one getting very wrong. The primary thing should be that a person is on a board of directors because it has the right skills, or because it can supplement with what is needed to get, for example, the dynamism that is desirable in the individual company. It is clear to the Swedish Democrats that the principle should be the right man, or woman, in the right place and that you are chosen on the basis of what competence you have, not because a certain number has been set up in the whole. However, the basic question was not answered. For example, Swedavia, the car test and several other companies where the proportion of women is over 60% have missed the target; there are too many women on these boards. My question to Per-Per-Arne Håkansson is: Why is it problematic to have too many women on these boards?
i-6651954e8c1b5e1a-1039	Mr President, I would like to I have not seen in any other context that it would be problematic. The important thing in this context is that the competence and the person's qualities as leader and board member decide the matter. This is the basis, but in order for us to make sure that more competent women sometimes go ahead and get confidence to work on these posts, we need to put pressure and make demands for one to be more gender equality. This has been achieved by state-owned companies for a number of years. Private listed companies still have a lot left before they reach the same level. I think it is important that we continue to have this focus. Gender equality is important for the development of companies.
