i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Johan Hultberg has asked me how the Government and the Government take a position on the work and conclusions presented by the Strandskyddsdelegation, whether the Government intends to return to Parliament with a proposal aimed at reforming and making beach protection more effective throughout the country, and whether the Government and the Government intend to review the rules for the establishment of municipal nature reserves in order to ensure that the current regulations are not used on incorrect grounds. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish beach protection is unique in an international perspective together with the right of public access. Strand protection rules aim to create the conditions for public access to nature experiences and for the conservation of biodiversity in coastal areas. Let me point out that the beach zone is particularly important for biodiversity. At the same time, there is flexibility in beach protection rules that promotes rural development and local decision-making. The proper functioning of beach protection requires an appropriate regulatory framework and good application. This means, among other things, that the rules allow the development of Sweden's rural areas while not jeopardising the objectives of beach protection. The Guiding Authorities have an important role to play in ensuring that the implementation is carried out in accordance with the intentions underlying the regulatory framework. The Strand Protection Delegation's efforts to carry out and coordinate, in accordance with its mission, an information and knowledge effort on the application of the beach protection rules have played an important role, and the report of the delegation will now be dealt with further in the Government Office. I and the government are closely following the issue of the application and importance of beach protection rules for both the development of society and the preservation of the values the rules aim to protect. Municipal nature reserves are an important tool for developing nature conservation at the local level. Setting up nature reserves is one of several important planning tools for municipalities. My view and that of the government is that the municipalities use the possibility of establishing municipal nature reserves in a responsible way to protect areas of value for nature conservation and outdoor life. It is therefore not appropriate to review the rules for the establishment of municipal nature reserves.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-6	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. As the Minister mentioned in his speech, beach protection has two objectives: firstly, to ensure public access to beach areas and, secondly, to preserve good living conditions for terrestrial and aquatic animals and plants. The aim is good, and beach protection is obviously needed to achieve these objectives. However, we cannot have a regulatory framework that also does not provide people with good living conditions and opportunities for housing, agriculture and other economic activities. We simply need adequate beach protection that meets these objectives, but also takes into account the need for development throughout our country and, not least, allows for increased housing construction. It was, among other things, against this background and in order to address shortcomings and ambiguities in implementation that the Alliance Government reviewed and reformed shore protection in 2009 and 2010. The aim of the reform was to make the rules more flexible and to create greater differentiation in how the rules can be applied across our country. Unfortunately, the effects of the reform did not really become what we hoped and intended. For example, we have not seen any great relief in the protection of areas with good access to unexploited beach areas. Instead, the testimony of many municipalities is that they feel that in recent years many county boards have rather tightened up the application of beach protection rules. Among other things, they have often extended the beach protection rules from 100 meters, which should be the main rule of the beach protection rules, to 300 meters. The current legislation allows this to be done on a case-by-case basis, but it is only to be noted that the individual case has become an enormous number of individual cases. The consequence is that the main rule in practice, contrary to the intention of the legislation, has been that the beach protection is more 300 meters than the 100 meters that the law actually says. Sweden has a very long coastline. Our mainland coast from Strömstad in the west to Haparanda in the north amounts to over 11,000 kilometres. In addition, we have over 314 000 kilometres of beach along our larger lakes and streams. In addition, we have over 50,000 kilometres of beach around our islands. On average, we have about 860 meters [860 m] of beach per square kilometre. So we do not have a lack of beaches, nor, thankfully, do we have a lack of unexploited or untouched beaches. On the other hand, we have a huge housing shortage and problems with urbanisation, and rural areas find it difficult to attract. That is why there is a need for reform of beach protection. Mr President, I would like to In his speech, the Minister said that well-functioning beach protection requires an appropriate regulatory framework and good application. I fully share that view. Given this wording, I have to ask the Minister: does the government believe that today we have an effective regulatory framework with good application? If not, will the government make proposals on how to make the regulatory framework more effective and with better application?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-15	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Hultberg for the discussion on a matter of concern for the whole of Sweden. As both Johan Hultberg and I have emphasised, we need an appropriate regulatory framework for the purposes of beach protection to make available the most attractive soil for public recreation and to protect the zone between water and land, which often has the highest biological values. In this way, our environmental policy will make the most of it. Beach protection rules have a long history in Sweden. The regulatory framework has also changed continuously according to society's needs, the view of protection values and other social interests. In particular, it concerns the reform that was made for rural development, which, as far as I remember the entire Parliament, supported and thought was an important reform in the area of beach protection to ensure that this works throughout the country. We are aware that the beach shelter is at its most loaded with the most different stakeholders and the highest pressure on the ground in the metropolitan areas and in some of the archipelago environments. However, we have a very varied situation across the country. We have made a number of analyses of the changes that have been made in the past and that Johan Hultberg described. The reports from the county administrative boards on how to use the instrument with increased beach protection to 300 meters or a limit to 100 meters shows that the beach protection area has overall decreased in Sweden. However, I am aware that it looks very different. But differences must exist in a country that has such a varied landscape character and so varied conditions, not least between city and country. So it makes perfect sense. Of course, it is also a question of justice between landowners and public interests. These are always sensitive cases. We know that there will be many appeals, which are sometimes handled by the government. You need to look at and follow up on this continuously, and the government does. We have received the Strandskyddsdelegation's assessment, analysis and report on the work they have carried out. I'm glad they've done their job. We will look at their proposals and the discussion on this in the future. The MP can feel confident that the government is doing this. The government is doing a strong job for housing construction. It is a very high priority challenge in Sweden that more housing needs to be built. However, there are more obstacles to this than beach protection. It can be a bit difficult to see that the big problem with Swedish housing construction today is not the beach protection rules. I know that such discussions can take place locally.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-23	Mr President, I would like to I did not get a direct answer to whether the Minister believes that the current regulatory framework is working properly or whether it intends to reform it. That was a rather evasive answer. The Minister says that you follow the issue closely and look at evaluations and the work of the Strandskyddsdelegation and so on. However, in previous answers to questions and interpellations, Mr President, the government has referred, among other things, to the county administrative board's review of the extended beach protection. The Minister did so in this response as well. But that review is done. Then reference has been made to the work of the Strandskyddsdelegation, but the work is now finished and the final report has been submitted. I don't think the government can duck anymore. Now the government must not only follow the issue and its application but also follow the wishes of the Riksdag. Because we have an announcement from the Riksdag. A majority in the Riksdag has clearly asked the Government to come back with a proposal on how to make the beach protection rules more effective in order to both achieve the purpose of the beach protection rules and enable increased housing construction, more business, agriculture and so on. It is true that the beach shelter is not the only or even the biggest problem when it comes to the housing shortage, but it is a piece of the puzzle. In the area where we are now, Stockholm County, there are more than 30 land restrictions that together end up on buildable land in the county. In Stockholm County, more than 120,000 homes are missing. In fact, if we want to tackle this problem, we have to recognise that the protection of shores and other land restrictions are an obstacle. You have to be prepared not only to talk about monitoring developments but also to take action. A majority here in the Swedish Parliament has sent a clear announcement to the government asking to return with reformed beach protection rules. I expect the government to follow Parliament's will. After all, that is the order we have here in our democracy. I repeat my question: does the government intend to come back with changed rules, or does the government and the Minister think that the current rules are appropriate and that application works well?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-30	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little surprised when I listen to the discussion. In the Strandskyddsdelegation's answer, they talk about collaboration and so on, and that's great. They also say, however, that a number of problem areas cannot be fully addressed simply by efforts aimed at strengthening the application of existing rules, or by reviewing these problem areas or proposing changes to the rules, have not been included in the delegation's mandate. I have to agree with Johan Hultberg. There's an announcement. There are examples out in the country where you increase access to, for example, an inland beach but where the county administrative board says no anyway. There are very strange decisions, and I would ask the Minister to review this. Should I interpret the answer to Johan Hultberg as not being prepared to review the beach protection rules, but thinking that they are good as they are today and that the authorities are using them effectively? At least I don't agree with that. There is an announcement that the government will come back on this. So I repeat the question that Johan Hultberg has already asked.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-33	Mr President, I would like to I thank Members for their contributions to the debate. The government has not taken a position on changed beach protection rules. The government, as I have explained in this House, has received a number of elements in which we follow the development and application of the beach protection rules. I think we can agree that the country is large, that there are many cases and that the conditions are very different. It is a rather delicate task to say on an overall level and across the country that there is a conclusion on how beach protection rules work. I think there are about as many views as there are meters of beachfront plot in this country. The beach protection delegation presented its final report just recently, and it is on the government table for preparation. The simple fact is that we prepare it. I want to ensure properly what we have received – what they say and why and what there may be to go ahead with or continue with. I can imagine that some of the coordination and information efforts must be secured, because this is not something that can be done as a one-off effort. However, I have not yet got deeper into the report, and therefore the government has not taken a position on the way in which the rules will be dealt with in the future. But we follow the question. We believe that this is an important issue in order both to safeguard the interests protected by beach protection and to follow the social debate we have. The challenges are great in terms of Swedish housing construction, and they are mainly concentrated on the fact that we have poor competition in the construction market, that we do not build for those who demand housing, that is, households with lower incomes, and that we have a number of problems in getting construction started. Right now we have an incredible shortage of construction workers, machine contractors and crane workers – simply people needed to build. We have a huge need for housing. This is a big and complex issue. Of course, just as Johan Hultberg was on the subject, there is extra pressure in the metropolitan regions, where demand for housing is high because the population is larger there. It goes without saying that the struggle for the buildable land is strong. I know that the discussion is going on in the country, in our larger and smaller cities, on how to make land use more efficient. There we see a number of challenges such as ensuring that we can rebuild land that has previously been used, for example, for industries that have been closed down, and that land that is designed for other purposes is not used in the same way now, in modern times. Large parking spaces at previous workplaces have, for example, been made more efficient by drawing public transport. A lot of construction can be started on previously exploited land, which is often closer to communications. There you can get to buildable land. Getting public transport and infrastructure is really what opens up the most buildable land in Sweden. We should drill more on infrastructure issues. I note that there are some other infrastructure issues, not least in the city we are in right now, which imposes restrictions on housing construction. One is that we have two airports instead of coordinating them into one. It takes quite a lot of land. But the discussion about how we can increase the available buildable land in Sweden is incredibly important, and the relationship to infrastructure planning and urban development issues is important. I can mention the government's plan for the urban environment agreements, which conclude cooperation agreements with municipalities precisely to get to buildable land in public transport near locations. It's an incredibly important effort.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-44	Mr President, I would like to The Minister repeatedly points out that it looks different in Sweden. That is precisely why we need to re-examine the beach protection rules, because the reforms made by the Alliance Government in 2009 and 2010 have not had the effects that we wanted. We can take a municipality, Arjeplog, which has 8 700 lakes. There are 3 kilometres of beach per inhabitant in that municipality. Of course, we must open up the possibility of allowing Arjeplog to take advantage of the opportunities to build in beachfront, attractive locations to develop its municipality. There are concrete proposals from the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. It is, for example, exempting watercourses and lakes with low protection value, increasing the influence of municipalities on exemption cases and removing the requirement for new houses to be built in connection with existing settlements in sparsely populated municipalities. There are three concrete proposals that I think the Minister and the Government should take on board and include in a bill to Parliament. Mr President, I would like to To summarise the Minister's response, the Government has no plans to change the beach protection rules and create better conditions for construction and development in coastal areas. Nor does the government have any concrete plans on how to improve the application of the current regulations, but it simply says that it is following the issue and that it is now going to prepare the Strandskyddsdelegation's proposals. But, Mr President, we have a majority here in Parliament who have called on the government to come back with a proposal for a change of regulatory framework. It's necessary. Now the government must act – and quickly. Thank you for a good debate!
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-50	Mr President, I would like to The minister talks a lot about building in the cities. I am fully aware of that aspect. Even in smaller municipalities, from which I come, you try to find old parking spaces and other things. But it's still like this when you want to build a little outside: the Swedish Transport Administration says you don't have any money, so it's like no infrastructure. We can't all live right at the station. That's a problem. I have also just learned that in my municipality a case has been referred back and I want 300 meters along a river, where it is sometimes 2 meters of reed. There you want to expand to 300 meters, which turns on a lot of construction projects in my municipality, which I just received notice of. We have to look to the whole of Sweden, which Johan was into. I would like to interpret the Minister's reply so that there is a proposal for a revised beach protection. Or should I interpret the answer so that it is not so? I understand that you are preparing the question and looking at this, in addition to information and cooperation, which is important, also other things that are to be looked at. Should I interpret the answer so that there will eventually be changes from the government?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-54	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, the debaters. I repeat that the government has not taken a position on changing rules. I do not rule out the fact that, after the reviews that have been carried out, we are making some proposals for amendments – it seems foolish to exclude wise proposals, not least from Parliament. It will of course be developed, because it needs Sweden, not only to make land available for construction, but also to develop Sweden – the whole of Sweden. I understand that the alliance parties regret that the reform they carried out two mandates ago has not fallen out as desired. I think in it we can see that it may not be that simple when you change these rules, to have a certain outcome. Maybe there are other tools to work with as well. This could be about culture in the administrations. It can be about how we find a clear, broader political line, which we also bring out so that it becomes applicable throughout the country. But thank you for a good and important debate!
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his Rickard Nordin has asked me how I estimate that the sale of fossil-independent cars is affected in the short term as a result of government policy. Rickard Nordin addresses in particular the increase in the tax burden on biofuels, the reduction in the benefit value and the super-environmental car premium. Mr President, I would like to The CO2 tax is Sweden's main policy instrument to achieve climate targets in sectors outside the EU emissions trading scheme. According to the EU Commission's interpretation of EU law, the exemption of biofuels is a state aid measure. The approval of the aid by the Commission therefore requires compliance with certain requirements. Among other things, the tax relief of biofuels must not exceed the additional cost of producing fossil fuels. If this happens, the biofuel is said to be overcompensated. The first time that Sweden imposed energy tax on biofuels due to the overcompensation that the EU sees was on 1 January 2013. The changes in the taxation of ethanol, which entered into force on 1 December, were implemented in order to address past overcompensation and were a prerequisite for Sweden to have the EU Commission's approval of the continued tax exemption for liquid biofuels. We now have this up to 2018 and for biogas up to 2020, which creates a certain respite for those producers and consumers. This is therefore an issue with which this government, as well as the previous government, has been struggling. The restrictions imposed by EU law hamper the continued development of the market for sustainable biofuels. That is why the government is working with the Commission to find a solution to the problems. The Government's objective is to have new rules in place by the beginning of 2018 that give biofuels more favourable, stable and long-term conditions, so that a transition to a fossil-free vehicle fleet can take off. Mr President, I would like to In order to stimulate the introduction of more environmentally friendly cars, the Government has announced that it will extend the temporary reduction in the benefit value of electric cars, charging hybrids and gas cars from 2017 to 2019. However, the maximum reduction should be limited from 16 000 to 10 000 SEK per year. The government thus limits the subsidies of the most expensive cars. In addition, the 2016 super-environmental car premium continues with changed rules so that clean electric cars are most favoured. The grant is increased to a total of SEK 347 million for 2015 and a total of SEK 309 million for 2016, when the sales of electric cars and charging hybrids have been higher than expected, which is very gratifying. Through the Government's Climate Action initiative, investment aid for charging infrastructure for electric vehicles is now also provided. Already at the turn of the year 2015/ 16, climate action had enabled investments in 1,115 charging stations throughout the country. In addition, the government has strengthened the investments in biogas production through more money for the so-called methane reduction compensation for farms. It also has a positive impact on the development of electric cars. In 2015, a total of 8 587 charging hybrids and electric cars were sold. This is just over 80 per cent more than in the previous year. For 2016, Bil Sweden estimates that the sales will increase further to up to 14,000 charging hybrids and electric cars, including thanks to the Government's support system.
i-RcYBPUV9BXRvU5hK1TQxaV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, my question was not so much about the EU's state aid rules, because we have debated this quite a number of times in the past, and we are rather agreed that they do not work as we would like, although we in the Center Party are opposed to the increase in renewable taxes that the government has carried out which has actually overcompensated petrol and made it relatively significantly cheaper than ethanol. Here the government's calculation methods are exacerbating an already rather difficult situation. But let us put it aside for this debate. The Minister himself – in a debate article in the DN – has said that her party has considered that it had been de facto. Let me then give the Minister a chance to relate to the reality that exists. We have the EU rules that we have. They're bad– that's something we agree on – but they're there and they won't be changed overnight. Then the government must adapt its policies to reality. New statistics from SCB show that there were a record number of passenger cars sold in 2015. But the categories electric car, electric hybrid, charging hybrid, ethanol car and gas car account for only 6.6 percent of newly registered passenger cars together. The rest are petrol cars and diesel cars. This is a very serious situation, because those passenger cars will be rolling on our roads for quite some time. What the government did in its budget was not, as the Minister points out and wants it to sound like, to benefit electric cars. The government halved the super-environmental car premium for charging hybrids – that's what they did. You didn't lift it in any way for the electric cars. At the same time, the conditions for the purchaser of a company car to receive a reduced benefit value also deteriorated by almost 40 per cent. The Minister also forgets in his reply ethanol cars and gas cars. They weren't there at all. Maybe it was deliberate. What do I know? Let me return to my question, as it was actually put. How does the Minister think that the government's changes and even deteriorations for those who want to buy an environmental car will affect environmental car sales until we have other instruments in place? It is not about what it will be in the future, but how this affects in relation to the rules that we had before. Is there any improvement or deterioration in government budget policy?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-71	Mr President, I would like to I share Mr Nordin's view that the share of new car sales consisting of charging hybrids, electric cars, biogas cars and ethanol cars, simply cars that can go on renewable fuels or electricity to 100%, is worryingly low – 6.6% in 2015. But I am somewhat more hopeful and think that you have a wrong picture when you think that this is the great concern, as to where you come from. In 2013, this figure was 3.4 per cent. So it's doubled in two years. Why has the proportion doubled in two years, and what has led to it? It is a question of instruments. The Alliance government introduced a super-environmental car premium. For example, there has been a reduction in the value of the benefit. There have also been other things in the surrounding area that have made it easier to have a biogas or electric car in Sweden, as the supply of electricity and biogas has increased. What's the government doing? The government strengthens, extends and broadens these subsidies so that more people can access them. There's gonna be more electric car buyers. Then we have to make room for them. Therefore, we multiply the support in 2015 and 2016 for the super-environmental car premium, so that uncertainty and queues do not arise. What we're doing is environmental differentiation of the premium. When the technology has gone further and we see that the price pattern is so different between the pure electric cars and the charging hybrids and we also see that emissions differ quite significantly – the pure electric cars are much cleaner – it is reasonable to differentiate the premium. Mr President, I would like to The government is thus strengthening, extending and broadening precisely the support that has led us to at least doubling the small share of new car sales that are now made up of cars that run on renewable fuels or are charging hybrids or electric cars. I am therefore confident that this is the way forward. What I am more concerned about is the opposition's response to this. If you read the opposition's budgets, you can see that the Center Party supports the government's proposals regarding the super-environmental car premium and the benefit value, which is gratifying. But the Alliance is extremely divided. Rickard Nordin colleagues in the Liberals abolish the entire super-environmental car premium overnight. We shouldn't have even had it today. It would have been SEK 40,000 more expensive to buy an electric car in January this year than it was in December last year. The Moderates are totally opposed to differentiation in the environmental performance of the super-environmental car premium. In addition, which I am most concerned about, it is not considered that these support efforts to produce more biogas in the country and to get it out to gas stations and filling stations and to build more charging stations throughout the country, so that it will be possible to drive on clean electricity throughout the country, deserve support and coordination by the state. This is what we do. We have coordinated these efforts at the Swedish Energy Agency, we have gone out with support to the municipalities for charging poles and charging infrastructure is now being built throughout Sweden. But the alliance parties, headed by the Center, say no to that. I wonder why you do it.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-77	Mr President, I would like to Now it's the Center Party that I represent. In fact, what the Liberals do in their budget must stand for them. It is good that the Minister shares our view that the number of environmental cars should increase and that it is a worrying situation that they are so few. The Minister says that the number has doubled since 2013. However, we have had an alliance budget that has been in force until 1 January 2016. So it is the Alliance's budget that has applied with the support that the Minister is talking about. The Minister says the electric cars are much better than a lot of the others. Then choose to reward them. What the minister and the government are doing is making things worse for others. It worsens the charging hybrids rather than favouring electric cars extra. That's the big problem. The aid is getting worse for those cars that are at least significantly better than petrol and diesel cars. When it comes to charging poles and so on, the Center Party has set aside money for it in its budget. I think the Minister should read the budget a little better. The Center Party has not at all bought the government's proposal in terms of the value of the benefit. We want a considerably higher deduction than the government for those who buy a company car. We also have other figures for the super-environmental car premium. What other parties have chosen to do in their budgets, the Minister may include these parties. The Center Party has far stronger measures than the government has in its budget. That is what I am responsible for, because I represent the Center Party. It would be a little interesting to hear from the Minister how the government and the Minister view the concept of fossil-independent vehicle fleet. Where are we going with the measures being taken? What does fossil independence mean to the minister? What's the date? Can the Minister concretize that? The Minister said the day before yesterday that we have achieved our environmental objectives by 2020, including for the transport sector. Will the government have any new targets along the way? I think that is urgent. It would be interesting to know where the government really wants to go. I would like a concrete answer with percentages and dates, so that we do not just talk about visions and where to go at some point in the future.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-84	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the tapes. I repeat what I said in my reply about the assessments of the industry. We can stand here and have different horror scenarios and say that the measures in the budget that we are deciding on in this House will have no effect on strengthening what we both actually want, that is, on the benefit of the cars that are the best in the environment. When someone is buying a new car, more and more people are going to choose a car that can go on completely renewable fuels or electricity. The industry, Bil Sweden in this case, estimates that sales will increase – up to 14 000 charging hybrids and electric cars. It is thanks, among other things, to the support that we have decided on here in Parliament. What's the target? The government has a much tougher overall target than Sweden has had in the past. It is because we see that the climate issue is even more pressing. We see that this is an important matter of responsibility in order for us to be able to look our children in the eyes of the future. But we also see that for Sweden it is an incredible opportunity. We can reward solutions that we can spread in Sweden. I am pleased that the Center Party supports, for example, the government's proposal in the budget for an electric bus premium. It is one of the solutions, where by investing climate smart in Sweden, we can also spread solutions. But I also believe that we need to make it easier for more and more people in Sweden to take the fossil-free road when it comes to transport. That is why we have followed up on the report on a fossil-free vehicle fleet that came in the last parliamentary term. All measures are clearly shown on the Government's website. I think it is close to 20 measures. I'm not gonna stand here and list them. However, it is a question, among other things, of actually removing the tax on biofuels imposed by the Alliance Government on low-interference renewable fuels. That's where we remove the tax ceiling. So we are removing a tax on renewables imposed by the Alliance Government. We ensure coordination around a charging infrastructure. We will also ensure that biogas production continues to be started, which was cut back when the previous investment aid from that sector was removed. I welcome the debate on how to define the objective of the fossil-free transport sector. There are ongoing discussions, and this government supports the same visions and ambitions that were adopted here in Parliament during the previous government. You might think they were wobbly. But if so, it is something that must stand for all of us. I also hope that the discussion now taking place in the Environment Agenda on climate targets will help us to see when different sectors can reach the goal of being fossil-free. I think it is important for Sweden. It is important for innovation, for our responsibility on the climate issue, but not least because good ideas can be disseminated. They need to be spread when the climate issue is as serious as it is.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-90	Mr President, I would like to I am curious about the government's assessment of its actions. Has the government carried out an impact assessment of the measures they take and the changes they make to instruments? That's what I want to know. Has the government done any impact assessment, and if so, what does it say? It is much more uninteresting what the industry says will be the result, as they have not made a reference scenario. I want to know what the government has in mind. Has the government carried out any impact assessment of the deterioration in environmental cars that it has done? Is there any kind of impact assessment? I think it would be quite reasonable to do that. I, too, am in the Environmental Objectives Committee. It is great that the Minister hopes and believes that we will come up with good things. I think so, too. But I'm still a little curious about what the government's goal is. We in the Center Party have been clear. We want 80% reduction in emissions from the transport sector by 2030. We believe that a new interim target should be set by 2020. With regard to the 10% interim target that we have, the Minister himself said on Tuesday that we have achieved it a long time ago. Then I think it is quite appropriate to set a new target. Nevertheless, it must be the government's task to do so. We from the Center Party believe that 30% is a reasonable target to start with to also have something to aim for. But what does the government want about it? Does the government have any proposals, or do they just trust that the Environmental Objectives Committee will come and deliver them? Does the government not have any thoughts of its own as to what goals it needs for the transport sector? I would like to hear the Minister say whether the government has objectives for the transport sector. Can the targets be communicated with dates and percentages? Was any impact assessment made of the deterioration that has occurred on the environmental car side before the proposals were submitted to Parliament in the budget?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-95	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate. I'm sure we'll return to the subject. We presented the impact assessment. We can see what has led to the doubling of electric cars and the sale of new cars driven by renewable energy. We can see how incentives can be strengthened, broadened and extended. That's what we do. The assessment is that sales will increase. This is also the assessment of professional organisations. In addition, it is important to add increased production of biogas in the country and increased charging infrastructure. If it is to be done throughout the country, this must be coordinated. This is done through national coordination at the Swedish Energy Agency. There is support for expansion throughout the country. We're gonna follow up and deliver. A lot of proposals were produced under the previous government. It was easy for politicians to say that they think this and this. But to deliver the proposals, the task must be done. I therefore call on the honourable Member to go into the government's website and see how the government is following up on the proposals for a fossil-free vehicle fleet. We tick proposals for proposals and implement things we can be proud of – a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. The project to make Sweden independent of fossil carbon and fossil oil can be achievable. That's the government's goal. Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. I hope we can work together on this.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-101	Mr President, I would like to Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me how I intend to proceed with the regulatory framework for vehicle inspection and whether I see any risks with a possible transition from the 3 – 2 – 1 model to the 4 – 2 – 2 model. In 2014, the EU adopted the so-called inspection package consisting of three directives regulating periodic testing of vehicles and technical roadside inspections. The EU Directives will be transposed in all Member States in May 2017 and will apply from May 2018. The proposal that Jessica Rosencrantz probably refers to comes from the Swedish Transport Agency. The Swedish Transport Agency has proposed in a document to the Government how Sweden could transpose the EU Directive. As regards how Sweden should implement the Directive's provisions on the date and frequency of testing, the Swedish Transport Agency recommends an adaptation to a new range. In support of its proposal, the Swedish Transport Agency has an impact assessment. However, the Government also takes into account other views, and the Swedish Transport Agency's entire investigation is currently being referred to relevant stakeholders. The deadline for the referral is 12 February. The Government intends to take a position on the proposals after the consultation has been completed and interested parties, both public and private, as well as stakeholder organisations, have been given the opportunity to make their views known. The proposals will then be prepared within the Government Office. The Government intends to work for increased safety and safety on the roads. It is also important that vehicles in Sweden undergo control of the emissions generated by exhaust gases. These objectives will be taken into account in the Government's assessment of the design of inspection rules.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-105	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden is internationally known and recognised for its work on road safety. Not least the zero vision, the target of zero killed and seriously injured in traffic, is important in this context. There is a clear political commitment to the goal, and we in the Transport Committee have often met our international counterparts who have come here to learn more about how they can work to achieve the same good results as we in Sweden in terms of road safety. It is against this background that I put the question to the Government about how the Government views the Transport Agency's proposal to narrow out inspection intervals. It is, of course, a complex issue, but there is much to the claim that the issue of inspection is directly crucial for good road safety on our roads. Some of the arguments put forward in a Swedish context are that the climate in the Nordic countries makes our cars run faster than on the continent. That would be an argument for shorter intervals. It is also believed that narrower intervals would be bad for a country that has one of the EU's oldest car parks. Arguments such as the fact that older cars are more often affected by errors are also not insignificant. It is also noted that every year 3.7 million cars are inspected in Sweden. Of them, 1 million receive such serious remarks as to require re-examination. There are many aspects to road safety that need to be taken into account in the proposal from the Swedish Transport Agency. If a 4 – 2 – 2 model is introduced, this means that Sweden goes down to a minimum standard in Europe. It may seem to be a bad rhyme with our strong security work. I note that the Government does not want to give precise information today. I can respect the fact that you want to wait for the consultation round. But perhaps the Government can comment on some of the concerns. Does the government consider that there is a relevance to the concerns raised that narrower intervals would adversely affect road safety? Or let me turn the question around: what benefits does the Government see in actually narrowing out the intervals and going down to the minimum level of the European Union? Last but not least, when does the Government appreciate that we can find out about the matter?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-111	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by stating two facts. One fact is that the EU has decided on an inspection package, and this means that Sweden needs to change its regulatory framework in this area. The rules Sweden has based on the final digit of the car registration number to get a time within which the inspection should be carried out cannot be reconciled with the rules that the EU requires Sweden to introduce. The second fact we can see is that the government has not made any proposals, nor has it taken a position on any proposals from others. The Government has given a mandate to the Swedish Transport Agency to see how Sweden can transpose the legislation into Swedish law. It is a question of changes to regulations. It is not new legislation that is required; it is a matter of redeploying the regulations, probably in several different legislations. It is, of course, extremely important to take into account several different aspects. It is incredibly important that there is a functioning car inspection in Sweden. Ultimately, it is about achieving our transport policy objectives where both road safety and environmental objectives are two important elements. At the same time, car inspection should not unnecessarily cause costs for car owners if it cannot be justified precisely on environmental and road safety grounds. Therefore, it is important to sort out from the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal and from other aspects what is a reasonable interval. At what age should there be more frequent intervals? How old are the cars normally when a certain type of fault starts entering? What are the inspection requirements? We are not there, but we are waiting for referrals to be submitted to the Government by 12 February. On one point, I can be clear. The government will not put forward proposals for changes to the inspection that override road safety and environmental requirements. What will be proposed should be well substantiated and consistent.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-115	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Government highlights the environmental issue. That was my next point. There is broad support for zero vision and road safety, and there is also a strong and broad political commitment to ensure that not least the transport sector takes on its responsibilities and turns to climate challenges. We listened to a debate earlier on the fossil-free vehicle fleet. That question is intimately linked. The environmental issue is also highlighted in these contexts, as an older car park and older cars can be assumed to have a greater negative environmental impact. The longer the intervals are, the harder it will be to detect problems in time, which can have negative environmental impacts. When estimates are made of this, which can be taken with a pinch of salt, it is talked about that one could achieve quite large reductions in environmental impact if one were to move at European level towards the standard that we have in Sweden today, for example in terms of inspection intervals. That is another interesting question. No one could have overlooked the fact that a well-known German car manufacturer has brought up to date the need for accurate assessments of emissions and vehicle inspections of all kinds. As a result, the EU is now taking the initiative to tighten up checks on vehicles in terms of emissions. It also proposes that the EU itself be able to carry out control activities through its Joint Research Centre. Then you might think that this is a bit contrary to each other. Here we discuss at Swedish level how to narrow our intervals to smaller inspections and controls, while at the same time talking about having tougher and not least tighter controls on the environmental side. How does the government view the proposal put forward by the Swedish Transport Agency in relation to the EU's ambition to have more frequent controls? Does the government see any contradiction here, and if so, how has the proposal been put forward?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-121	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answers so far! What I would like to point out on this issue is that the government also includes in its continued work that reducing controls at our inspection stations means probably increasing controls even more on our roads in order to really get to those who do not want to inspect or have substandard cars. The government's current policy of reducing the number of traffic policemen and those who are knowledgeable on vehicles is a little out of proportion. There is then a need to put in place a programme of measures to ensure that we can get more road policemen and more checks that can offset a reduction in the number of inspections at inspection stations. Mr President, I would like to I'm no stranger to reviewing these rules. That's good, and that's what you're supposed to do. You have to reconsider the rules. The cars are getting better, and you can look at different intervals. I think that's good. However, it is important that we do not move the problem from inspection stations to the roads, so that there are cars that should actually be banned and that there are no traffic policemen out there who can take care of this. Please include this point in the further work.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-125	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my first speech, it is the Government's ambition that we should have an inspection activity that ensures that we have both road safety and as little environmental impact cars as possible on our roads. Of course, it is not the intention to move the inspection activities from the inspection stations out to the traffic police. Then we have, as it were, pushed over the target. Today we have requirements for inspections at one year intervals. One might imagine that we forced people to inspect their cars every three months, but we do not. It is not certain that inspections at one year intervals for all cars after a certain age are the ultimate. One might also consider postponing the age of a one-year interval. Nor does the Swedish Transport Agency make just one proposal. You look at several different scenarios. And in the government's eventually final decision, we will take into account a wide range of aspects. There is another aspect that has not been mentioned by the interpellant and Sten Bergheden, and that is geographical accessibility. The liberalisation of the former alliance government in this area has meant that it is quite attractive to carry out car testing in certain parts of the country, i.e. densely populated areas, while it is somewhat less attractive to do so in less populated areas. With an extended time between inspections, there is a risk that there will be very different geographical access to inspection stations. It could also be a problem. Today, quite a few assessors point to the fact that there is some over-establishment in this industry as a result of liberalisation, but of course not evenly spread across the country. As I said, there is a certain over-establishment in the metropolitan areas. At the same time, the price has been pushed up, which was also a concern that the Social Democrats in opposition highlighted in connection with the implementation of liberalisation. One might wonder, in itself, whether this is an appropriate area to market. It also requires the design of the new rules, bearing in mind that the market is likely to respond not to all needs but to demand in the usual order.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-132	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes we stand in this Chamber fighting hard, while the other times we have a more nuanced discussion. This particular one is probably more of the latter. As my colleague Sten Bergheden pointed out, it is clear that there is a point in reviewing the time intervals. So do I. The important thing, as I see it, is to monitor the two goals that we have in Sweden after all, partly the zero vision, partly the new but equally important goal of a fossil-free vehicle fleet and reduced climate impact. No matter what range you end up in, it must be something that is in line with those objectives. The zero vision has been very successful. With regard to the latter, a fossil-free vehicle fleet, we still have one way to go. I note that the Government does not answer when we can expect a response, so we will have reason to come back in different contexts on this issue. But I noticed that 12 February is the last day of referral. Before that, I will not ask again, but soon thereafter we can come back. I also note, as the Government mentions the issue of liberalisation, that, after all, we have had more inspection stations and that many feel that it has become more accessible and less queues. Pricing can be discussed. What has happened, among other things, is that it has become more flexible pricing, for example depending on the time of day. It is also quite good that it costs less to inspect your car the time of day when there are not so long queues. Well, this was not a debate on liberalisation. But I think we agree on the importance of zero vision and the fossil-free fleet. The important thing for me is that we do not jeopardise this and that we take a holistic approach to it, because if we expect more checks on the roads, we also need to get the traffic police in order, as Sten Bergheden also pointed out.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-138	Mr President, I would like to As Mrs Jessica said, liberalisation has led us to have more stations today than before. Then there may be geographical differences here and there. But the focus was to take responsibility for the geographical distribution as well, and I think it is managed fairly well over the country and works. Regardless of this, we are talking about road safety now. What is worrying is that we already have vehicles on our roads that should be banned from driving. At this point, there must be a traffic police officer telling those who drive the vehicles that they are forbidden to drive, that they have to get the cars ready and re-examine them. Making road safety work is not about intervals between inspections; it is about taking those who do not care to fix the brakes, do not look over the tyres and other things and which pose a traffic hazard. The interval is one thing, but the most important thing is that the traffic police get more resources and more educated people. I think we are in agreement on this issue. But what always worries me in this debate is that nothing is done about this. You have to put that act in order to bring about a change on the road. I would like a review of the times of car inspection, but certainly do not move the problems out on the road instead! Do not think that the traffic police that are currently being dismantled will be able to carry out the mission. Instead, make sure we get a traffic police officer out there who can handle the mission and that we get a safe and secure environment.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-142	Mr President, I would like to Now, this interpellation from Jessica Rosencrantz did not apply to the traffic police's work but to the range of inspection activities, and that is what I have responded to. Sten Bergheden will have to put an interpellation about the traffic police to Anders Ygeman, who has this on his table. With regard to what the interpellation is about, I think we are in complete agreement. We agree that the traffic police need the right knowledge, the right powers and the right resources to be able to do their job and to ensure that the cars and drivers on our roads work in a safe way. There's no difference in the thing there either. But to return to the content of the interpellation: We fully agree that whatever range or regulatory framework we land in as regards inspection activities, the aim is to ensure that we have a safe car park that does not pose a greater environmental threat than is necessary. Then there is no direct connection with fossil freedom. It's about the type of cars we put on the market. Similarly, EU testing methods are not directly linked to inspection activities. There are also environmental aspects other than climate issues when it comes to car inspection. It can be about emissions of other types of both health and environmental pollutants. I repeat that we will give a message from the government, but not before 12 February and perhaps not exactly the days after either. But when we have taken note of the referee and investigated the matter further, we will take a stand, and that position will mean that we still put road safety high and ensure that we achieve our environmental and climate objectives.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-148	I would like to welcome the ministers to today's Question Time. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Questions are answered by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister Anna Johansson, Minister Mehmet Kaplan and Minister Aida Hadzialic. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-149	Madam President, I would like The housing shortage is today one of our biggest welfare problems. It creates major problems for people who want to move to work and to educational places or who just want to leave home. We have had two mandates of bourgeois governments that had a strong lack of interest in building new homes for the Swedish population. Boverket now says that there is a need to build 80,000 homes per year. The Left Party and the Government agree on investment aid to provide 15 000 rental rights with reasonable rents. It's very good, but it's not enough. Since housing needs are so high today, venture capital will form a bottleneck, and it will hold back new production. Today it works so that the commons and private investors have to go in with an equity capital that is very large. For rentals it is an equity of 30 per cent, which creates very high thresholds for entering the market and building new rentals.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-153	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Nooshi Dadgostar, for the question. We have just begun talks with the four bourgeois opposition parties and the Left Party. There is this question as one of the recordings. It is important to keep the door open for as many entrances as possible in order to increase building speed in Sweden but also use the existing stock better. I have noted the constructive entry of the Left Party into the talks. And I think it is a good thing that all parties involved in these talks are involved constructively and ensure that we create good conditions for finding more housing in the existing stock but also to ensure that much more is built than today so that we can achieve the 700 000 housing by 2025 that Boverket estimates is needed.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-155	Madam President, I would like As far as the Left Party is concerned, it is very important to get the building act up. However, we note that it is much more difficult today to build rental apartments than tenant-owners, for example, because their own contribution to the construction of rental apartments is much greater, and the thresholds are therefore much higher. I would like to ask the Minister: what do you want to do to bring the thresholds into the market a little lower and to help the builders to actually build rental apartments? What is the Minister's own opinion on this matter? It's very cheap for the government today to borrow.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar, for the follow-up question. We share the problem formulation: that there are far too few rental apartments with reasonable rents. That is why the government and the Left Party have an agreement that has contributed to our having the biggest housing policy investment in 20 years. In it, there is investment aid mentioned earlier by Nooshi Dadgostar. We have entered the talks with open eyes and hope for constructive talks.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-158	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. Our increasingly digital society and an increasing number of cloud services mean that the need and market for data centres has grown and will continue to grow. I recently visited Luleå and Boden with a focus on the new data centres that have grown up there. Sweden has very good conditions for the establishment of more data centres. Of course, there are many other countries that also want some of the cake that is emerging.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is quite correct that the questioner says that Sweden is good at the whole digital economy, but we have also been very successful in terms of digital infrastructure. Luleå broke new ground with the Facebook establishment. But we see that several international large companies are considering where to put their large data centres in the future. We have a mission to Business Sweden, which is working to promote Sweden internationally in terms of more establishment of data centres in Sweden. They also work with local and regional actors to promote and provide good conditions. It is an important work to attract more investments to Sweden. In addition, we have had a study that has looked at the electricity taxes, which is a very important element in the overall attractiveness of Sweden as an investment country for data centres.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-164	Madam President, I would like It is important that Sweden gets a chance to take part of the cookie that is now emerging and that we can attract new data centres. But there is a time factor involved in this too, because there are quite a few of these companies that are about to make decisions about location quite soon. Then my next question is: When can we see concrete proposals on Parliament's table to facilitate data centre establishment in Sweden?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-165	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I share the view that there will be several establishments in the near future and in the coming years and that Sweden is a very attractive country. It also confirms the discussions I have had with international companies – I myself have had dialogue with them. You can see that we have a secure electricity supply in Sweden. We have stable rules of play. We also have a good climate mix in our energy policy that provides the conditions for this. And we have a good digitalization climate. We'll prepare the investigation and hope to return as soon as we can.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-167	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Hadzialic. Many new people are coming to Sweden now. A lot of people have a high level of education. Others almost lack education. Every fifth guy in his 16s in Sweden today is unaccompanied. They come to Sweden in their teens. Often they find it difficult to pass primary school. This means that they find it difficult to pass upper secondary school. This, in turn, means that they find it difficult to enter the labour market. We could then expect the government to put quite a lot of gunpowder into thinking about how to make it easier for those people to get a quick education and to get into the labour market. We see that the government does exactly the opposite. You make it difficult for apprentices. There is a deterioration in the conditions for those who want to hire apprentices. You push for everyone to be forced to enter university qualifications at upper secondary school. And you raise the threshold into the labour market.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-170	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Christer Nylander! In fact, I would argue that the government is doing exactly the opposite. Ever since we took office, we have prioritised Swedish language, vocational training and that high school young people should manage their schooling as quickly as possible. Last spring we introduced what we call Swedish from day one. Since then 50 000 individuals have gone through this kind of Swedish teaching to learn the Swedish language as soon as possible. Let's look at how SFI will become more professional. In the spring we made the form of education more individualized. We have earmarked money to make it more vocational. And we are investing heavily in industry collaboration in high school – we have declared that 2016 will be the year of vocational education – together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and LO.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-172	Madam President, I would like The issues raised by the Government are those prepared under the alliance government. I asked what this government wants to do. In practice, you go the other way. It makes it more difficult for apprentices, it makes it more difficult to pass upper secondary school and it also creates higher thresholds to the labour market. It is good that you are making changes in the SFI that the Alliance Government was preparing, but I would like the Government to give three four examples of reform ideas that this government has to facilitate for new arrivals who come here with a tangled educational background to get through the education system and then get a good job in Sweden.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-175	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Christer Nylander! I must say that I am very surprised by the reasoning that Mrs Nylander is putting forward. You had the government power for eight years and then had great opportunities to implement the reforms that this government implemented during its first year as a government supporter. We introduced Swedish from day one. As I said, we have invested heavily in SFI becoming vocational. We have made it so that language introduction also becomes more vocational, which is good for the entire school and establishment.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-179	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to the Minister for High School and Knowledge. Unlike Christer Nylander, I think it is well known that the government is investing billions in a new knowledge boost, and in it people's colleges are a very important part. It is about giving people the opportunity for what the Minister of Education called a more crooked education journey and a more straight path to working life. It is about giving people many different ways to form themselves and to train themselves into the labour market. Folk high schools are good at meeting people where they are and often turn out to be suitable for those that the regular education system fails to meet. However, those who are far from studying and the labour market must find their way into knowledge-raising institutions such as adult education and folk high schools. They have to be mobilized, and so I wonder what the Government is going to do to make it easier for people who are far from studying and the labour market to start studying.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-183	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Linus Sköld! I fully agree that the education of people, both folk high schools and study associations, is very important to the education of knowledge in many different ways, but above all to reach those people who for various reasons have had a little more difficult to establish in society. I see that folk high schools, with their special pedagogy and dissemination around the country, can be both motivating and recruiting, both to the platforms they own and to the regular education system and the labour market. It is in this direction that I intend to work.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-185	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Folkbildning and folkhögskolan have, as the Government points out, a very important role in the new knowledge boost. But peoples' education also includes the study associations, and I think that the part that the government has set aside for learning within the study associations focuses on language learning and social orientation for newcomers. Then I have a follow-up question: What additional role does the Government think that the study associations can play in the new knowledge boost?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-188	Madam President, I would like Last year, we launched the knowledge boost, which is a first step in ensuring that people get the qualifications that the labour market and society need. I intend to return with Knowledgelift 2.0 during this year, where, among other things, the study associations will have an even more active role and among other things work more motivating and recruiting across the country.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-189	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Enterprise. The Swedish Democrats were the first party to tackle the Roma beggar problem in this country. We have put forward proposals to ban begging and impose visa requirements on the countries concerned. These are problems that were long denied by all parties and the media, and then the Swedish Democrats got right – as usual. The recent final report on vulnerable European citizens, as it is called, reveals something that should have been obvious to the rest of you, and that is that the more resources they give them, the more people come here. The investigator also recently said in the Social Affairs Committee that a beggar earns an average of SEK 400 per day in Sweden, while, for example, a teacher in their home country earns SEK 150 per day. That mathematics clearly shows one thing: the problems will not stop unless Sweden 1) prohibits foreign begging and 2) imposes visa requirements on these countries. The question is: is the government prepared to resort to these measures?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-194	Madam President, I would like It is not the case, as the Swedish Democrats have been saying for a long time, that poverty can be banned, either in Sweden or in Europe. These are people who are very vulnerable, and that is why the issue has been taken very seriously. We have had a coordinator who has worked very closely with municipalities, NGOs, police and other actors to see what the legal situation looks like and also whether there is a need for changes in the legal structure. It is clear that the best help we can give to these vulnerable people is to create more cooperation through the NGOs that are making efforts on the ground in their home countries, and that is also the recommendation that the coordinator makes. Another important thing is to create cooperation at government level. Tomorrow, 5 February, Minister Åsa Regnér visits Bulgaria to sign a new cooperation agreement between Sweden and Bulgaria to work long-term and preventive with these issues. This is how you have to work seriously with the issue of reducing begging in Sweden.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-199	Madam President, I would like It is not a question of banning poverty. It's about banning the begging so we don't have to. It is very simple: you have to look after your own population and our country first. I understand that the Social Democrats have no huge interest in doing so. In exactly the same way as it has failed to address the problem of begging, mass immigration policy is now failing. We saw that the Migration Board today talked about up to 140 000 people this year. These beggars go into stairwells, they beg, they shit into parks and forests, they stand by boats, they attack and steal from our homeless. In the face of all this, the government is watching. It's shameful.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-202	Madam President, I would like Unlike the previous government, this government has addressed this issue and has both drawn up new cooperation agreements with the countries concerned and had a coordinator who has looked at the legal aspects. We have an investigation about how to help private property owners who have been given illegal shantytowns in their areas, and we are very clear that begging is not a good phenomenon in a modern welfare society. You have to fight begging, because that is not a long-term solution to the problems faced by these people.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-205	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. Sweden is the EU's third largest surface country, and efficient transport is crucial for jobs and growth. The Alliance has long demanded that we do as Finland and allow heavier trucks. This would reduce business costs and emissions when fewer trucks are needed to transport the same amount of goods. Heavy trucks are a win-win for Swedish competitiveness and the environment. But no proposal has come from the government, despite the fact that the alliance government did all the preparatory work and despite demands from the Riksdag. There must be an end to the Green Party dictating the conditions for Swedish transport policy. The handling of Bypass Stockholm and Bromma airport are two deterrent examples.
i-XwTV1TrQZcGAVWzqvqHBP2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! Now it was not that this issue was fully prepared. There were still a number of questions, including how much of the road network could be opened up to heavier traffic. It was also about the risk of transfer from train to car, which, of course, we want to avoid. Perhaps it is not so much the Green Party as our common planet that sets the framework for both transport policy and many other policies. The Swedish Transport Administration has now submitted a report showing positive environmental benefits and also identifying a possible road network. The Government intends to present proposals this spring that will make it possible to allow 74-tonne traffic on Swedish roads.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-212	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased, I should say, if the government finally makes a proposal. We are already several years behind Finland when it comes to heavy goods vehicles. Every day our forest industry has less opportunity to compete. I assume, Madam President, that the Government's proposal will be a complete system and not a small number of road bodies where these trucks are allowed. Both companies and the environment need the heavier trucks, and it is not reasonable for the Green Party to put the agenda in Swedish transport policy. I hope this is the last time.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-213	Madam President, I would like Among other things, we look at the example of Finland, where you have actually had a lot of problems. The whole road network was opened to 76 tonnes of traffic, and the whole road network was not adapted for such heavy goods vehicles. We want to do this in a way that makes it possible to have both reasonable costs for road maintenance and to open up the parts for traffic that are appropriate for it. It is now being prepared, and we will come back in the spring with a proposal to allow heavier vehicles on the roads.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-215	Madam President, I would like The Center Party sees the availability of universities of applied sciences as crucial for growth and well-being throughout Sweden. Many industries today find it difficult to find the right skills, and the university of applied sciences is an important piece of the puzzle in providing companies with the required skills and providing people with a high quality and useful education. Nine out of ten have work done after completing their studies. More than half of polytechnic education goes to the three largest cities. Take Dalarna as an example – although the county is the fourth largest visitor county after the three metropolitan areas, it has only received a university of applied sciences education that has carried out the tourism industry. Stockholm has received ten. It doesn't make sense. The Center Party wants to see growth throughout the country. Government Hadzialic, what are you doing in the government to ensure that more people than those living in metropolitan regions can take part in YH education and thus create good conditions for growth throughout the country?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-217	Madam President, I would like I thank Staffan Danielsson for the question. It is also extremely important for the government to conduct a policy for the whole of Sweden. We are pursuing an active employment policy in order for the country to grow and more jobs to be created. We are also pursuing an education policy so that all people out there who may not have a job can be matched to the jobs that are added, and there the university of applied sciences is very important. It is because, as Mr Danielsson says, nine out of ten people get a job after such an education. I know that there are regional problems with not everyone receiving the training they want. It is really gratifying that there is such a great demand. That is why the government is now making historic investments in education. We will expand the university of applied sciences by 20 percent in the coming year, and it will promote Sweden as a whole.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-219	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We in the Center Party welcome the fact that the government has now opened up the possibility of entering professional competence via Komvux so that eligibility is granted to the University of Applied Sciences. However, in addition to expanding and broadening polytechnic education and making it available throughout Sweden, it must be possible for a provider of polytechnic education to apply for permission to pursue education for a longer period than today. It is a matter of great investment and continuity. Is the Government prepared to act on this issue?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary question. I am delighted that we agree so much on the reforms needed for the university of applied sciences. Not only should we ensure that capacity is expanded, which is good for the supply of skills in the labour market and therefore important for the whole of Sweden to live, but we also need to implement reforms to make universities of applied sciences even more sharp. Among other things, I have addressed this issue over the past year. A consultation round on this particular subject is underway.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-222	Madam President, I would like The industries are an invaluable asset for Sweden, and much of the Swedish industry is doing well now. It is increasingly reported about new investments, new sales records and new job vacancies. At the same time, industry faces a number of challenges. We are in the midst of the fourth industrial revolution, where digitalisation and automation radically change the conditions for industrial production. In order for Sweden to be able to assert its industrial development in increasingly fierce competition internationally, the government has now decided on a new industrialisation strategy that will help strengthen the competitiveness of the industry and make investments in Sweden more attractive. That's good. My question to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg is therefore how he views the potential of promoting industrial production in Sweden.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is true that we are seeing a boost for Swedish industry right now. If we look at the recent export figures, we see that the industrial sector is actually hitting the services sector in export, and it has been quite a long time since it did so. We also see greater investment than for a very long time in large parts of the industry. We also see that the industry is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit, which is a challenge. The time it takes to recruit is becoming longer and therefore the government's investment in skills development is so important. However, I see an open window to actually work to increase the importance of industry in Sweden, both in terms of traditional production and in terms of the service content of production. With automation and digitalisation, we can compete with other countries. Business Sweden released a very exciting report last year that showed companies that have de facto moved back production to Sweden when we are sufficiently efficient, able and at the forefront. We need to see more of that in Sweden.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-227	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is very gratifying that we now have a government and a Minister for Economic Affairs who takes these issues very seriously. It is just over three years since Fredrik Reinfeldt, who was then Prime Minister of another government, stood in Davos and said that the industry was That is why this message is very pleasing. My supplementary question will be how it intends to continue working on the strategy to ensure that the concrete measures needed are put in place.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-229	Madam President, I would like That is exactly the case; now the industry must be back in the political fine room as well. It is still the case that 77 per cent of Swedish exports come from either industrial production or service sectors linked to industry. It is thus the backbone of the Swedish economy. On Monday I have new industrial talks, where we will be talking about precisely the implementation of and the action plan linked to the Smart Industry Strategy. It is about how we are now moving forward and what priority efforts we are making to strengthen the industry's conditions in Sweden.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-231	Madam President, I would like Swedish industrial policy needs to be developed in harmony with the environment. We must have fresh thinking in all economic activities, globally, if we are to avoid dangerous climate change. These are nasty scenarios we are moving towards if we do nothing, like a mass extinction of animal and plant species on earth and such harsh weather conditions in the form of storms, torrential rains and droughts that it will be difficult to maintain a civilisation such as the one we see today in terms of, for example, agriculture, a functioning infrastructure and so on. Recently, a climate report was removed from the Swedish Transport Administration's data base to the new infrastructure plan. I have heard that the Ministry of Industry knew about this but did not act. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is, therefore, whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs really wants to review the opportunities for industry to transport more goods by rail and whether it takes responsibility for the climate issue seriously. Indeed, it is a large part of the industry that is actually calling for rail transport.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-233	Madam President, I would like I was the one who received the data from Trafikverket, and the report Emma Wallrup mentions was not considered good enough to form a basis. However, it is not the case that the climate issue is thus forgotten; on the contrary, it is a very important approach in all the work the government does. Job creation, education and climate issues are at the top of the government's agenda. However, we cannot eliminate the climate threat with new infrastructure. That is part of the problem, but it is far from the only thing we need to do in the field of transport. That may even be the smaller part of what needs to be done in the field of transport. According to Trafikverket, this report will come back in a different form, but it was assessed that it was not good enough to be able to follow the data.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-235	Madam President, I would like It has long been said that the Swedish Transport Administration works so to speak against its goals – that it builds more road than rail. The climate issue is actually quite new on our table – it is only for about ten years that we have had it on the agenda so clearly. Somewhere we need to rethink. Now I heard that the Ministry of Enterprise knew about this. I think that much is linked to industrial planning in Sweden, how we plan freight transport and so on to get a sustainable and resilient economy. Somewhere we must dare to admit that we cannot continue to invest in the road, but it is rail that is...
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-239	Madam President, I would like We need to make major investments on both road and rail in order to meet environmental objectives as well as jobs, growth and development. The government does not control the basis on which the authorities present them. But when Trafikverket produces forecasts, they are based on assumptions with existing policies but also with additional policies. Politics is what we should stand for. We will make decisions on political reforms that bring us closer to fossil-independent society, and we will do so in different ways.
i-UMYNWULH5WBTJaku8t46Zx	Madam President, I would like Last spring, I intervened with the Minister for Economic Affairs in a case concerning new Natura 2000 sites in northern Gotland because those areas were in danger of hindering economic activity in connection with lime mining. In August, the government announced 15 new areas and ten enlargements to the EU. One complex case was closed and two breaking companies had their potential for enlargement severely limited. In connection with the decision, the Government gave the following information through the Minister for the Environment: On behalf of Gotland, we make the assessment that further measures involving larger areas will not be needed to comply with Sweden's obligations. However, a consultation round is currently under way with a new proposal for Natura 2000, and this time the largest employer in the north of Gotland is threatened. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: Is the government's five-month-old notification of new Natura 2000 sites on Gotland?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-245	Madam President, I would like I cannot, of course, go ahead with a trial that the government has to do on this issue and which must comply with the rules that exist. I am therefore not going to comment on the specific issue. But when we did the previous trial, the Environment Minister made statements that apply to the entire government. We now also see that some positive news has come to the island, not least with regard to polytechnic education linked to the development of industry on the island, which I think was very welcome. I am also excited to receive Peter Larsson's final report during the spring or perhaps the summer, linked to the initiative we plan to implement from the government to increase growth and create more jobs on Gotland. I am therefore in favour of the previous statements by the Minister for the Environment, but I am not going to go ahead with an examination that the government has to make in actual cases.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-249	Madam President, I would like A result of the government's decision last year was the Gotland package, i.e. the business package of 100 million that is currently being developed by the government coordinator for Gotland, Peter Larsson. Peter Larsson, director of social policy at Sweden's engineers, develops this package in collaboration with region, industry and industry. It has not yet been reported, but there is at least reason to be hopeful.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-252	Madam President, I would like I think we'll first get through the business package we're working on now. From the reports I have received to the Ministry of Enterprise, the work is progressing very well. I'm curious about the end result. Above all, Peter Larsson has succeeded in involving many local and regional actors and working closely with Region Gotland on these development issues. I think that's a medicine that maybe more counties and regions would benefit from – getting this collaboration together and making power collections. I therefore hope for a positive result, but I promise no new business initiatives on Gotland right now.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-256	Madam President, I would like Signal errors, ne-powered overhead contact lines, gear faults, snow on the tracks, leaves on the tracks, sun on the tracks and new signal errors – so is the everyday life of many of us who commute to and from work and for many who choose to transport their goods on trains. Delays have become more the rule than exceptions, and confidence is falling increasingly in times when we want more and more people to travel collectively. This is an untenable situation, which I believe everyone in this House – not least all the listeners – can agree with. In addition, it costs billions. In 2013, the Swedish National Audit Office strongly criticised the Alliance Government for lack of governance and responsibility. It was said that it is possible to streamline maintenance in order to improve punctuality.
i-QzmMPHFAAhtnJDUUMiBk2b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for the question! First of all, I would like to say that the train is much better than its reputation. If you look at the flight and compare delays, you can see that the flight takes 15 minutes and the train takes five minutes. The long-distance trains are in parity with the aircraft. But that doesn't mean it's good. We see that there needs to be a lot of maintenance work. We have a neglected railway, an old railway, and an increased travel. We have allocated 1.2 billion more per year plus 100 million more to rural areas, but we also need to control how maintenance is carried out and on what basis. So we need to have stricter planning and better knowledge of what it looks like on the track, what action is required and who is going to do it. That is why we have set up an investigation, which has left its report, and we will now proceed with the results of that investigation in order to be able to take a better look at maintenance and make the railways work better for travellers and for freight transporters.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-264	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. I think this can be a reassuring message for many – 1.24 billion more per year means that this government is investing approximately 8 billion in the operation and maintenance of the railways. This addition is very much awaited, and there are undeniably lots of holes to put the money in. But how can we ensure that this money – it is the taxpayers' money, the 8 billion – really ends up where it is supposed to go?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-267	Madam President, I would like There are many things to do. Money is a part, but it is also about better organisation of how maintenance work is carried out and that the Swedish Transport Administration gets better control over its plant. I also believe that the interaction between the various actors in the railways is extremely important for this to work. Those who drive the trains need to take better care of their trains. You need to take better care of the facility, and you need to work together for more trains that go on time and, above all, arrive on time. But we also need to make more bets.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-269	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg as a general policy issue. Last week's session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on travelling fighters in Syria and Iraq. It adopted a text which I myself was driving in order to get in and which was also supported by Minister Damberg's Socialist colleagues in the Assembly during the vote in plenary. It is a question of the Council of Europe inviting Member States to draw up agreements with third countries in order to obtain diplomatic guarantees and effective follow-up mechanisms with third countries in order to receive their own citizens who have been convicted of serious terrorist offences and expelled from Europe. They shall also comply with international conventions concerning the non-use of torture or the death penalty. In what way will the government work to ensure that such guarantees are designed so that we can protect Sweden's security and expel convicted terrorists without enforcement barriers?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-273	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that this government has addressed this issue. There is a proposal on the table of Parliament which has not yet been voted on but which will be voted on shortly, on which we will tighten up the legislation to criminalise more connected with these terrorist trips and also the preparation of terrorist trips. We also tighten the regulations to be able to prosecute more people in Sweden and give the police stronger opportunities to act. Sweden also acts internationally and bilaterally with different countries regarding different types of international agreements to enable, for example, extradition. However, we also have a principled position that is that we are opposed to both the death penalty and other forms of corporal punishment that are not permitted in the legal system. I assume this is an important issue for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice to work on.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-277	Madam President, I would like My view is that the bill is about criminalising terrorism. We welcome that; it's great. However, my question was that if someone has been convicted of a terrorist journey or serious terrorist crime, they should be able to be expelled. It is not possible today without our being judged in the European Court of Human Rights if it is a country that does not comply with international conventions on capital punishment and torture. We must draw up agreements with diplomatic guarantees so that we can expel these countries too. Does the government intend to do so in concrete terms?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-280	Madam President, I would like Sweden is working hard against both the death penalty and torture. I welcome the fact that all parties can take a stand for human rights both internationally and at home in Sweden. This would be welcome given the situation we have in Europe. What is being asked, as the questioner says, requires bilateral agreements between parties. It is not always certain that countries applying the death penalty or torture are interested in signing such agreements. However, Sweden has every interest in pushing for such agreements.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-283	Madam President, I would like I am about 40 years old in Sweden, and for my part it was crucial language and work. My question is therefore: how does the government intend to market in practice the various types of fast track for new arrivals and give new arrivals the opportunity to benefit from the skills they bring from their home countries? I ask in the light of the fact that, if these important tracks do not work, the new arrivals are threatened by years of lock-in in the unpleasant world of the subsidy closets and by dependence and anxiety.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-286	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Sotiris for the question. Swedish society has quickly met up with the question of fast track. Last time I looked, 24 different fast tracks were negotiated, and I think there's more going on. It shows a great interest from the employers and workers side in concluding agreements to quickly validate and bring people into the Swedish labour market faster in areas where there is a shortage and where people who come to Sweden have knowledge and competence. I am not entirely clear on how the system works in detail, but I understand that, on arrival in Sweden, great efforts are already being made to map the skills available. Here there is interest from Sweden and Swedish authorities to be able to directly connect the knowledge and competences that people who come to Sweden have with the education system and validation system that is also strengthened in the coming years to ensure that we make full use of this resource. We have a great interest in ensuring that this is done quickly.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-290	Madam President, I would like I respect the fact that the Government does not know the details. But if I start from my own experience, it is very important and crucial that the fast track that the government intends to set in motion also works in practice. Otherwise, as I have said, the terrible world of subsidies is threatening.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-291	Madam President, I would like We have a common interest in ensuring that these fast track functions as well as possible. It is an investment in Sweden when people come here with skills that we quickly validate them and complement with the education and practice they may need to quickly get into work. It will be a win-win situation for Sweden. Every time we fail to do this, there is an increased cost to society.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-292	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Mehmet Kaplan. In my hometown of Stockholm, it is becoming more and more common that there are more people living in a dwelling than there are bedrooms. It is the most common definition of overcrowding. The housing shortage and overcrowding have for a long time been a serious problem in Sweden's big cities, but with current housing shortages, urbanisation rates and population growth, this deficiency is becoming increasingly apparent and contributes to an increased overcrowding. Research shows that overcrowding also causes other problems. Children living close to home cannot read their homework in peace and quiet, which contributes to worse study results. From a legal perspective, which I am interested in, research shows that children who grow up in crowded housing are more likely to end up in crime.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-297	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Redar for this very urgent issue. I fully agree with Mr Redar's background. For a long time we have built far too little of the type of housing that people with normal incomes can demand. Housing is being built – last year 48 000 new dwellings were started – but there are far too few of them that ordinary families with children can demand. Therefore, the government made the biggest investment in housing policy in 20 years when we landed in the budget for this year at SEK 5.5 billion to get the construction of rents with reasonable rents in particular started. We believe that this will lead to moving chains getting started so that people can move to homes that are adapted to them both in terms of surface and location.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-300	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I take into account reasonable rents, because in the production of new homes there is a risk that the rents will increase and that it will cost more and more. Then, when we get new mixed areas, which is in itself positive, it can lead to higher market prices and rents risk getting higher rents.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-303	Madam President, I would like I am aware of Lawen Redar's great commitment to this issue, and it is therefore urgent that the matter be raised in Parliament. In the housing policy package, we have investment aid that only goes to building rental apartments that can maintain a reasonable rent level. It's an entrance. Another entry, which concerns what Lawen Redar talks about gentrification, is about having mixed tenure forms in new residential areas so that we get safe and good residential areas.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-306	Madam President, I would like I, too, have a question for Minister Kaplan, and it concerns surveying activities in our country. It has developed into something of a sad child when it comes to processing times. The long processing times are a big and unfortunately growing problem because they are getting longer and longer, not least in rural areas where this is perhaps particularly important. I know the lack of surveyors is a reason. It is also likely that quite a number of regulatory simplifications can be made in this area to speed up the process. You can also look further at the possibility of letting other actors in to a greater extent, because there are different parts; it is the exercise of authority and so on. The long processing times are a brake on our country's development, not least rural development.
i-4EZ8gqjCVapqoaihY6RZiS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christian Holm Barenfeld! This is an issue for which there is a fairly broad consensus in this House. We all want it to go faster and become easier and cheaper to build. Planning processes take far too long in some parts of the country, while in other parts of the country the process has been speeded up in recent years. We want to ensure that the rules that determine what construction companies choose to invest in are sustainable in the long term. That is why we have recently invited to cross-party talks. Christian Holm Barenfeld's party colleague was at the Government Office and presented his entrances, and the government has its own. Together, we will try to find long-term rules of play, including for surveying. I agree that there is a huge shortage of plan engineers, surveyors and other staff who make these plans.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-313	Madam President, I would like It is not only the construction companies, but we also have many small landowners who want to sell their farm, or wherever they live, or part of it, to finance development of some kind, to move or to buy something else. In some situations, they have to wait well over a year to sell so that they can get their money out. It is, of course, an extreme restraint on the development of our country, and we need to act quickly there. Does the Minister have a concrete proposal?
i-AkAnpz5z7G2TQp6QLFEJM7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christian Holm Barenfeld, for the follow-up question! The Swedish Land Surveying Authority has a constant mission to both streamline and create the best possible situation so that they can carry out the task they have. There are local surveying authorities in some parts of the country – sometimes applications to start up. We are constantly balancing the benefits of having local surveying authorities with all that it means with competence provision and the benefits of having Lantmäteriet intact as a good authority with good operations.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-316	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Johansson. In the last 25 years, regional traffic has increased by 200 per cent. It's a fantastic result. It has given us larger labour market regions. The large regions have become even larger. This has meant that more people have been able to apply for a job, which Minister Damberg is hopefully also happy about.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-319	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Public transport is, for the most part, a regional responsibility, but, of course, we can help create the conditions for better public transport. One such investment is the SEK 850 million that over four years will go to improve public transport in rural areas. In addition, an additional 100 million per year will be allocated to increased rail maintenance outside the strongest traffic. There we have a mission to VTI to see how to promote innovative public transport solutions. After all, it makes no one happier that we drive more empty buses on the roads, but it is important to try to find new solutions that create better accessibility in rural areas. Overall, one can say that the government is investing quite a lot precisely in rural public transport and in enabling more people to travel to their jobs or get a job.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-323	Madam President, I would like Just like that, more buses – if you miss a bus in sparsely populated areas, you can go and pick mushrooms while waiting for the next one. It is therefore important to have new ways of organising public transport. It is important and good that we now get 850 million for public transport in sparsely populated areas over four years. This is needed if we are to be able to take part in urban growth in Sweden.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-325	Madam President, I would like As I said, there is much to do. I believe that different types of call-driven traffic and combinations of traffic contain great new solutions. The Finnish Transport Agency has been tasked with collaborating with local and regional actors and creating opportunities for increased and better public transport in rural and rural areas. I hope that it will produce good results and that the 850 million will be very useful.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-328	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to put a question to our Minister for Housing. The Prime Minister stated in his government declaration that increased housing construction is not just a matter for the housing applicants, municipalities or construction industry, but that it is a national matter to bring about an increase in housing construction. The government has presented a housing policy package that is the largest in decades in this country. But not only that, the government has also invited the other parties to the Riksdag for talks. Former governments could have chosen to do so, but they did not. My question to the Minister for Housing, who is part of the talks, is: What assessment does he make of the possibility of finding out what the industry and other actors long for, namely block-crossing long-term conditions for increased construction?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-332	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Eriksson for this urgent question. As Lars Eriksson says, it is important to have a long-term perspective when it comes to the conditions for building, especially residential building – long-term rules of play, long-term economic conditions and, above all, long-term will. We politicians sometimes mock the market to keep up with the quarterly economy, but if we were to do the term of office when it comes to housing construction, we would not get anywhere. It is the accumulated housing deficit that has led to the situation we have today. That is why I am very pleased that we are now having these talks. It is still our hope that we can reach a broad agreement. Many questions are now being fed in by the four bourgeois opposition parties and by the Left Party, and I believe that we have great opportunities to get there.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-336	Madam President, I would like In addition to the comprehensive package launched by the government and the talks, there are sticking issues that are strategically important for this country and that span many other policy areas. One of the major challenges is the capacity of the workforce, which is one of the key functions for coping with increased housing construction. I would like to hear the Minister say a few words about that, too.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-338	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Eriksson, for lifting up another important aspect, namely who will build all these homes. Several of the construction companies – the players in the industry – report that they have reached the capacity ceiling. There are bottlenecks in the system. That is why an ambitious education effort is needed, as the government is doing in parallel with housing policy efforts. I would like to highlight one point here, namely that many women in the industry feel that they are becoming unemployed despite the industry's demand for labour. This is something that Sweden must take seriously.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-342	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. It is about food supply, but at a different angle, namely the level of supply – what happens in a crisis in Sweden. I have visited a number of farmers. Last time I was with Jan and Lisa Thorén in Korskrogen. We discussed diesel prices, of course, predator attacks and generational shifts, which are approaching for the family. These were fruitful discussions, but there was a lot of concern. I wonder how it could be facilitated so that we can maintain a high level of supply, as it is currently falling across the country. In my part, we would do better than in the metropolitan regions, should anything happen. It is a serious issue, because we all understand that the crisis is coming at some point. The question is how long it will be. What can the Minister do to make things easier?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-346	Madam President, I would like First of all, no one has well missed the concerns that have existed in large parts of the agricultural sector, not least in the dairy farmers, who have a very tough time behind them. The government has made special efforts to facilitate, not least as regards the price of diesel. Green industries are not only compensated for the increase in diesel prices, but also receive additional compensation over a number of years to provide economic relief. What we, especially Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht as Minister of State, focus on is a food strategy for Sweden. I have heard him talk about this several times. One of the starting points is that the degree of self-sufficiency is very low in Sweden and that there is potential to develop the green industries and agriculture in Sweden, with more jobs and increased production, increased processing and increased exports from Sweden. It is a nutrition that has the potential to grow in Sweden and where we can create more jobs.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. That's very interesting. I also believe that the level of supply is linked to the fact that during a crisis we can have the supply of food. We saw what happened in New York just recently, during the terrible snow storm. All the shelves in the shops were empty. I do not want that to happen to us in Sweden, but we need to think one more step, once it strikes. Whether it be electricity, water or anything else that goes away, we need to have a level of supply for all parts of the country.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-350	Madam President, I would like I think it is a correct analysis that our modern societies are very vulnerable to supply issues not only in terms of food, but also in terms of how industry should function and how we should live our lives in a crisis situation. There are growing issues to consider also in a security perspective. As far as food is concerned, we have not had a little bit of a national strategy, we have not had the same focus in terms of economic policy perspective. I think it was quite right when Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht brought rural issues into the Ministry of Industry, to get this focus around a national food strategy for increased production but also increased exports.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-352	Madam President, I would like My question is to the government and Minister Mikael Damberg. When does the unthinkable become conceivable and then take place? For most of us, it was unthinkable that a lynch mob would go out in Stockholm to beat up refugee children. It has now taken place. For most of us, it was unthinkable that racists would hold a demonstration to go out afterwards and strike down against demonstrators. The racist values are not isolated in time or space. We've seen what it's done before. We have seen the societies that are the consequence. We also know that democracy is a fresh product that must be reclaimed every day.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-356	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that this is a very important issue which I think everyone in this House is concerned about. Many people at home also wonder: Where are Sweden and Europe going? We see Nazis marching on the streets around Europe, and we have now also seen them take their place in the Swedish public space. It scares many people, and it scares me, when it comes to where Swedish democracy is going. We all have a responsibility there. But above all, we need to work both preventively and urgently. We have a police responsibility, which is about bringing security to the streets and squares, where the police are doing a great job but where the government has also given priority to hate crimes in the governance of the authorities. The second is prevention. There we have had a coordinator who has been given increased mandates and resources, Mona Sahlin, who works against violent extremism, a very important work where she now involves many actors and not least the municipalities in the preventive work.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-359	Madam President, I would like Words may seem like small, small doses of arsenic. They do not seem to have any significance or effect at first. But after a while, the effects of the poison appear. It is therefore important that we have a broad strategy that includes both costume racists and lynch mobs on the street. Therefore, I ask Mikael Damberg: Do you share that view?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-361	Madam President, I would like I share that view. Above all, I was privileged to attend the General Assembly meeting last week, on behalf of the government, when we commemorated the Holocaust. Interestingly, Göran Persson's contribution to living history was taken up in the General Assembly. It is about that we in Sweden actually have our own authority that works long-term to ensure that we do not hide our history, so that we do not make the same mistake again.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-363	Madam President, I would like We usually say in formal speeches that we are a small nation that is very trade-dependent. That is very much true. In Sweden, we are very much in favour of free trade. Not least, this has become more and more clear in recent years, when part of the world has not shown that openness. This is particularly true of India, but also of many other countries. My question to the Government is: What is happening right now with regard to the great agreement between the US and the EU?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-365	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Börje Vestlund, for an important question! It is about the TTIP, the trade agreement between Europe and the United States, where the negotiations are now entering a very important stage. Time is becoming very limiting. The United States is entering into a presidential campaign, and this means that we really only have this year to conclude an agreement between Europe and the United States, if we want to bring TTIP about now. Otherwise, it will be postponed a few years in time. I was last week in the U.S. and I met the U.S. Chief Negotiator, Froman. We discussed the timetable, and I received assurances from him that Obama still has the ambition to push the issue forward, to ensure that we get a political agreement this year. However, there is still quite a long way to go, and I cannot say that the American negotiators have presented their positions in just all areas. Important areas for Sweden are still not on the table, and it needs to move forward in the negotiations in order for it to become an agreement.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-367	Madam President, I would like It is well known to everyone that there are a number of difficult points, not least the dispute settlement mechanism, although I believe that there is a solution to this issue now. But there are other difficult areas: what concerns agriculture, what concerns the environment, the social issues. Has progress been made there, or is there still much to be done?
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-369	Madam President, I would like In 30 seconds the answer is: There is still a lot to do. We in Europe have presented very much of our joint starting points in the negotiations and are in fact still waiting for the United States to present its positions in a wide range of areas. It is now a matter of providing support to the Commission and Cecilia Malmström in the negotiations during this year which will be very important.
i-dbb7ebf13a35ef5f-370	That concludes Question Time for the week. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
