i-29c4c0b331411fa9-2	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the annual letter of the Swedish delegation to the Interparliamentary Union, the IPU, which is the organisation of the world Parliament. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal to add the letter to the file. As chairman of the Swedish delegation to the IPU, I will provide some overview of the work carried out in 2015 and give some reflections for the future. After me, some of my colleagues will do deeper accounts. The themes that IPU has worked with during the year have included migration, terrorism and sustainability goals – from words to actions. Furthermore, the IPU has debated cyberterrorism as a serious threat to peace and global security and the promotion of parliamentary measures for water supply and sanitation. Other IPU themes have been international legislation related to national sovereignty and human rights, non-interference in the internal affairs of states, safeguarding cultural heritage and countering its destruction, and democracy in the digital era. In 2015, IPU continued its work on democracy and, above all, gender equality issues, which are increasingly taking place on the organisation's agendas. During the year, the IPU has promoted the development of parliamentary institutions and contributed to the development of the new development agenda. The Swedish involvement in IPU remains strong as the Swedish IPU members are elected and work in several of IPU's committees and working groups. Sweden continues to provide strong support in terms of commitment and work, but also financially through contributions from Sida. During the year, members of the Parliament's IPU delegation had several prominent positions within the IPU. Anti Avsan from the Moderates was elected Chairman of the Fourth Permanent Committee of the IPU, the UN Committee. Ulrika Karlsson, M, has during the year been the vice-chairman of the coordinating women's committee. It works to highlight gender issues and promote female participation in politics and society at large. Monica Green has been Vice-Chairman of the Middle East Committee who, as we all know, has a lot to do. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise the importance of Parliament's involvement in the organisation. IPU is the world's oldest multilateral organisation. IPU was founded in 1889 with the aim of working for peace and inter-ethnic cooperation. The organisation currently has 170 national parliaments as members. The tasks of the IPU include promoting personal contacts between MEPs in all countries and promoting the development of parliamentary institutions. Parliament's IPU delegation has had an active year. Delegation meetings have been held on several occasions in 2015. The meetings were largely devoted to substantive issues and preparations for the two annual IPU meetings. Three seminars on current IPU issues were organised by the Swedish IPU delegation during the year. The first seminar focused on the global drugs problem, the second on female leadership and the third on terrorism and the role of women in conflict and peace processes. All seminars were well attended. IPU meets at two large congregations a year, spring and autumn. More than 1,300 delegates attended the IPU Spring Assembly in Hanoi, 678 of which were parliamentarians from 128 IPU Member States. The Swedish delegation was led by Speaker of the Riksdag, Urban Ahlin. Sweden was one of ten countries that had the opportunity to carry out an official visit in connection with the IPU Assembly. Meetings with, among others, the President of Vietnam and the Prime Minister were on our programme. The focus was on issues such as trade, higher education, technology, health and transport. The main theme of the IPU meeting was the sustainability objectives – from words to actions, resulting in the final document Hanoi. Other issues that were the focus of the permanent committees were cyberterrorism, the creation of a new water supply system and the promotion of parliamentary action on water and sanitation. We discussed international legislation relating to national sovereignty, human rights and also non-interference in the internal affairs of states. A resolution on a particularly urgent subject was also adopted in Hanoi. The resolution dealt with the role of parliaments in combating terrorist activities committed by organisations such as Daish and Boko Haram against innocent civilians, especially women and children. Our delegation held a number of bilateral meetings with delegations from Kazakhstan, Rwanda, Germany and Australia. Mr President, I would like to The 133rd Autumn Assembly was held in Geneva. The main themes of the debates included the need to strengthen global cooperation to combat terrorism. Other main themes were democracy in the digital world and the preservation of cultural world heritage. The main theme of the General Assembly was the moral and economic necessity of a fair and humane situation for migrants around the world. I had the privilege of giving the main speech on behalf of the delegation and highlighted, among other things, the need for fairer and more humane migration. I spoke, among other things, of the need to seek European and global solutions to the challenges of the large number of refugees who have arrived in Europe, among others, this autumn. The Swedish IPU delegation held several bilateral meetings in Geneva to discuss urgent issues, with delegations from Australia, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Vietnam. Mr President, I would like to During the year, IPU has continued to develop cooperation with the UN. The fourth global meeting of Presidents was held in New York in the autumn of 2015. The meeting of the Speakers is organised by the IPU every five years, in close cooperation with the UN. The Speaker of the Parliament took part with a delegation of members. The Final Declaration was about democracy as a means of achieving peace and sustainable development, to build the world that people want. Mr President, I would like to I also have the privilege of participating in the steering group of the geopolitical group of the IPU, called the 12 plus group. It prepares and coordinates questions for the two annual IPU assemblies and meets twice a year. There is also a parliamentary conference on WTO issues organised by the IPU and the European Parliament in cooperation. The conference is an association of parliamentarians who supervises the World Trade Organisation, in order, among other things, to be able to demand responsibility from a citizen's perspective. The work of the conference is led by the IPU steering group d. are representatives of 25 national parliaments and where I and Anti Avsan are members. In addition, in 2014 I had the great honour of being appointed president of the steering group. The steering group meets twice a year in Brussels. Mr President, I would like to Within the Nordic IPU circuit there is a well-functioning cooperation before, during and after the two annual assemblies. The host of the group's meetings rotates, and during the year the Danish delegation hosted two preparatory meetings. In 2016, Finland will take over the hostship. I would like to conclude by saying that the delegation intends to continue working towards a high level of ambition that includes active participation in the drafting of resolutions and work in committees and working groups. We look forward to continuing to report back on and debate our work in this House. The IPU delegation aims to work actively with the dissemination of information during its term of office in various ways and to stimulate debate. I apologise for exceeding my registered speaking time, but let us consider it an accident at work.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-23	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would also like to support the proposal that the letter be added to the file. As demonstrated by Krister Örnfjäder's speech, the Interparliamentary Union is working on a broad front in a wide range of areas. There are a number of additional areas where extensive work is being done. I can mention, in particular, the human rights of parliamentarians where the Interparliamentary Union is doing a unique job. This concerns crimes, in many cases the murder of parliamentarians in various countries of the world. Work is now being done to clear up what has actually happened. For the Interparliamentary Union, there is no limitation period, so cases that have been very old have been resolved. Mr President, I would like to I have the privilege of chairing one of the four permanent committees of the IPU, namely the United Nations Committee. The work of this Committee has become more and more topical in the light of developments around the world and within the framework of the UN. There is a need for cooperation with parliamentarians in different countries. If progress is to be made on issues that are being pursued, there must also be broad support in the parliaments for the implementation of legislation. I can mention a work that I have been doing for many years, and I started with that long before I was elected chairman of the UN Committee, and that is the responsibility of parliaments for global drugs policy. From the perspective of the Interparliamentary Union, it is a problem in many countries that poor farmers grow drugs, people starve, but they do not grow food crops that they could have done instead. The profit these farmers make is very marginal when they grow drugs compared to food crops. This is initially sustained by the fact that there is a demand for drugs in many countries that do not have this kind of problem. There is a global responsibility in many different ways. When we look at the trafficking routes, we see that a lot of drugs are spilled by a lot in West Africa, which is an important trafficking route. It creates a variety of problems that you may not even have the capacity to cope with. There is therefore reason to take a global approach to this. There is also a link to the UN Conference on Drugs which took place last week in New York. The work we did in the IPU led to one of the annual hearings at the UN at the beginning of February this year focusing precisely on the drugs issue. This happened in collaboration with the General Assembly and proved to be a very successful event afterwards. The conference has been attended by various people who have participated in the different parts of the Youth Process – Youth is thus the drug conference that I previously related to – called perhaps the best conference of the Youth Process, and that is a good rating. There were interesting and important discussions. What is important in this context, also from a Swedish perspective, is that we safeguard our responsibility in the world but also that we should have a decent drug situation in our country, as in other countries. Then it is a matter of not setting different ambitions against each other. The desire to limit the amount of drugs is in fact fully consistent with an ambition to help people who have fallen into addiction. Uncontrolled liberalisation efforts, which we see in many parts of the world in the field of drugs, can lead to a sharp increase in the number of drugs in societies and thus to an increase in the level of abuse, with both medical damage and increased crime as a result. No one wants it like that. Here, too, there is a great deal of knowledge for parliamentarians in the world and that problems can be solved in different ways. What is now a fact is that the United Nations Drugs Commissions will be untouched. However, they are not an obstacle to national work to help addicts to leave their addictions and also to offer medical assistance if necessary. The conference that I have been talking about for quite some time now led to an 18-page document that became the world's parliamentarian's input to the UN Conference on Drugs last week. This is an example of closer cooperation between the IPU and the UN, and it will also take place in several other areas in the future. What is most relevant are the new sustainability objectives. There we have a specific sustainability objective, No 16, which includes parliamentary democracy as a prerequisite for sustainable development. It's really pretty easy to understand. In view of the stability of various countries in the world, it is clear that unless there is a functioning parliamentary democracy, we cannot take legislative decisions or have an ambition in the field of climate or the environment at all. In this context, the Interparliamentary Union is engaged in a wide-ranging technical assistance activity in the world's parliaments which can fulfil the role of contributing to the achievement of the UN's new Millennium Goal No 16, and that work will continue. Within the framework of the UN Committee, there will be a follow-up every spring in the future. There will be a number of parliaments in the world that will be exemplary parliaments. They should then be able to show to parliaments in those countries that have not developed the parliamentary function as much as, for example, the parliaments of Western Europe how to work on these issues. Other issues that have been topical that I can mention are a closer examination of the UN Peacebuilding Commission and how that work has gotten out. The International Court of Justice has held a special seminar on how different countries can understand what role the International Court of Justice can play in various conflicts in the world. The process of appointing a new Secretary-General was discussed during the spring meeting in Lusaka in March this year. There has been a move towards greater transparency, which is desirable in many different ways. Something that will be relevant in the future and which is a sensitive issue but which we have decided to address in the UN Committee is the problem of sexual abuse by UN personnel. This has been highlighted in various ways also in international media. There is serious information that this is a problem that was originally highlighted by Swedish Anders Compass. This, in turn, brought international attention. These were some examples of the work carried out within the IPU. I am sure my other colleagues will be able to tell you about their areas of activity.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-41	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on this speaker's chair. It is very good that it can be lowered. I was recently, a month ago, in the UN General Assembly, and there it turned out that the speaker's seat can only be raised – from a high level to an even higher level. I was a little shocked. The next day I asked how to do it when there are short women, or short men for that matter. The speaker's chair is intended for tall men. If you say so in advance, you can get a stool, I was told. But here in Sweden we have a lowerable speaker's chair, and I appreciate that very much. That is the case in international contexts. We meet different cultures and people with different attitudes to things. We from Sweden highlight gender equality issues in IPU and in many other contexts. I am proud that we have come so far with our gender equality work, even if we are not an equal country. We have a very long way to go and must always focus on gender equality in order not to suffer a backlash. But there are other countries that see Sweden as a leading country, which is very funny. Last year, in the Swedish IPU delegation, we had the opportunity to receive UN Women's top executive, Phumzile, at a well-attended meeting in the first chamber. She visited Sweden in connection with the Heforshe campaign carried out by UN Women. It is about men being able to stand up for equality, because everyone benefits from an equal society, as men should realise. If the men stand up at Heforshe, they also stand up to work to ensure that women have the same opportunities to participate in society and to be decision-makers. They also work to eliminate violence against women. It is important that more and more people join the Heforshe campaign, I think. I am also chairman of the UN Women's National Committee here in Sweden, so it is of course particularly important to argue for this in this House. Another comment I would like to make is that Sweden had a special theme on road safety when we were in Hanoi last year. We drove a moped with moped helmets and had a special courtship about how important it is to work for road safety. We talked about the zero vision, which we work with here in Sweden, about how we set up these goals, how to build smarter to bring down accidents and that it is also about people's attitudes and behaviour in traffic. I was also able to tell you about our road safety work as chairman of NTF in Sweden. I have also worked a lot in the Middle East Committee, where I was also Vice-Chairman. That requires a great deal of patience and commitment. Women are needed, as I used to be, because women are good at negotiating. More women are needed in peace negotiations. Women should be active in peace-building work. That is also why we from the IPU often highlight UN Resolution 1325; more women must be involved in peace negotiations. In the Middle East Committee, things are moving a little forward, then backwards, and that is how things are moving forward again, but that is how things are moving backwards. We often have hope when we have been able to communicate contacts between Palestinian and Israeli parliamentarians. They meet, and we find that they have a lot in common. Then we feel great hope. But just a few weeks later, that hope can go out again because things happen that make them not talk to each other. It's very sad. But it is patience and an ongoing commitment that applies. Finally, we shall succeed in peace in the Middle East too. I'm convinced of that. Finally, I would like to comment on the sustainability objectives, as did Anti Avsan. For my part, I highlight sustainability objective 5, which is about gender equality. Gender equality is also mainstreamed in 11 other of the 16 objectives, but there is a specific objective that requires countries to work for more gender equality in their respective countries. I wish we could move forward towards that goal. We in the IPU force with our statutes that all delegations have both men and women with them. That is a step in the right direction. We will then meet both men and women from the 167 national parliaments. We meet, we talk, we make connections, and that in itself creates peace. We are convinced that an equal world is possible, but also that peace is possible.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-48	Mr President, I would like to I have the privilege of representing the Swedish Parliament in the Swedish delegation of the IPU, the Interparliamentary Union. We are a well-functioning delegation with a high working capacity and a working level. There are 170 Member States within the Interparliamentary Union. Sweden is one of these Member States. It is amazing that Sweden has such a good representation in various committees and boards within the Interparliamentary Union. The Interparliamentary Union started in 1887. Sweden celebrates next year's 125-year membership. The aim of the Union is to create dialogue between parliamentarians, to create peace and cooperation between people and to support, support and establish representative democracy. That's a big goal. I wanted to mention something about my individual piece of the puzzle – my work in the Interparliamentary Union and the delegation. In November 2015, I was elected to join the Secretary General's Special Advisory Group on HIV / AIDS and Maternal, Newborn and Child Health. It concerns work on maternal mortality, sexual and reproductive health and rights, as well as HIV and AIDS. It is a very interesting and important work that directly concerns the third and fifth sustainability objectives. I look forward to the work we will be doing in the future. Throughout 2015, I was vice-president of all the women parliamentarians in the world, but I have resigned this year. In 2015, we celebrated the anniversary that women for 30 years have gathered under the direction of the IPU and had special meetings to raise gender equality issues and to highlight the parliamentary work for women. I've been on this committee for four years, for two years as vice president. Now my term of office expired. I have been involved, above all, in highlighting that we should start mentoring to raise women, to support more women being elected as parliamentarians and to support women acting on various issues, not only those that directly affect women and children, as is often the case, but also issues such as women being able to chair finance committees, defence committees, traffic committees and other committees. Women should have the same value and equally strong voice on different issues. We produce a map every year. I will show this, Mr President, because it is important. It is a map of the world showing women in politics and elected women. This map is from 20-14. At that time, there were 21.8% women in the world's parliament. In 2015, we stepped for the first time in history above the 22% limit. There are currently 22% elected women. It is amazing that we have reached 22%, but it is terrible that we have not made further progress in 2016 than that we have 22% elected women. It's a challenge. Although I am no longer Vice-President, I am still committed, and I know that the other members of the Swedish delegation are extremely committed to supporting women and increasing the proportion of women in politics. The second and third question on which I have worked in 2015 concerns a committee. I have been one of two members who have represented Europe on the Committee, which is literally called The Committee to Promote Respect for International Humitarian Law. The Committee has had an important work to do during the year. We have been and reviewed the region around Syria. We've met refugees. We have submitted reports on the situation in Syria and neighbouring countries. We have highlighted, among other things, the fact that more and more refugees in the region are exposed to child marriages, that there are systematic rapes and that the vulnerability especially to women and children is very high. We have talked about the importance of access to health care and safety. We have highlighted the issue of systematic attacks on health professionals, medical facilities and the kidnapping of ambulances, and I myself have spoken about it before the General Assembly in the past. We have also highlighted the issue of the vulnerability of aid workers in the region. It is a problematic situation in Syria. We all know that. It is extremely difficult to act, but these issues must be addressed in all the different contexts. During the year, we have also released two manuals which I have been involved in developing within the Interparliamentary Union. Together with UNHCR, we have developed a handbook for parliamentarians on citizenship and statelessness that is extremely important. We see that statelessness is increasing, especially among refugees. It is a problem that needs to be highlighted very seriously. The second handbook for parliamentarians that we from the Interparliamentary Union, together with the UN, have produced during the year and which I have been involved in is a handbook for parliamentarians on migration, human rights and government. It is an incredibly important book, especially when we see migration increasing. We have arranged several seminars at our IPU assemblies on the migration issue. The issue of migration has been the focus of the year and will continue to be the focus. Mr President, I would like to It was a little bit about my little puzzle piece in this active delegation. I am proud to represent the Swedish Parliament. I hope that we will continue to do the same good work. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-64	Mr President, I would like to We have today to debate the question of the hopeless abbreviation PA-UfM, which is impossible to pronounce and which needs to be read apart. This concerns the letter from the Swedish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Say it three times, if you can. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal to add the letter to the file. As chairman of the Swedish delegation to PA-UfM, I will report on how the work continued in 2015 and say something about the future. In 2015, work in the parish has generally taken place with a rather low intensity. The focus of the pre-emergency activities has been migration and terrorism issues, as well as the importance of respect for human rights and the tragedies taking place on the Mediterranean coast. With the challenges facing the southern Mediterranean region, there is a huge need for an effective forum for dialogue with EU countries. It is therefore regrettable that no more is being done to remedy the administrative shortcomings of the organisation. Therefore, in 2016 and in the future, the Swedish delegation will strive to help improve the organisation and have an increased proactivity for PA-UfM through intensified contacts with the Secretariat and relevant member countries, not least our Nordic neighbours. Mr President, I would like to Since 2003, PA-UfM has been a meeting place for parliamentarians from EU countries and the so-called partner countries Algeria, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, the Palestinian Authority, Syria, Tunisia and Turkey. In total, some 40 countries are involved in cooperation. The whole process rests on the initiative of the 1990s which was the so-called Barcelona Declaration with four main orientations: politics, the economy, culture and migration. In 2008, it was renamed the Union for the Mediterranean, and this is the parliamentary dimension of it. There is cooperation on the government side and parliamentary side. The aim is to create an area around the Mediterranean that is characterised by peace, stability, shared prosperity and enhanced cooperation on social and cultural issues. It is also one of the very few forums in the world where Israel and parts of the Arab world sit around the same table. The work carried out is carried out in five permanent specialist committees. There is a political committee, an economic committee, an environmental committee, a cultural committee and a women's committee. In all those committees, of course, migration and the refugee crisis have been the focus. It is about the war in Syria and the effects it has had in terms of refugee flows and human tragedies. The committees meet two to four times a year to agree on recommendations in their respective areas. These are then adopted at an annual assembly session, which is the organization's highest decision-making body, and are then forwarded to the government side. Last year, the PA-UfM held its 11th Assembly session in Lisbon from 11 to 12 May under Portuguese Presidency, where migration was the main theme. There the Swedish delegation took part. The assembly session concluded by handing over the Presidency to the south, as is done every two years, and it went to the Moroccan Parliament. This year's assembly session will take place at the end of May. In Lisbon, I gave a speech on behalf of the Swedish delegation, highlighting mainly the joint responsibility that we have on both sides of the Mediterranean for the tragedies that take place in the waters of the Mediterranean, where men, women and children die in terrible suffering in their attempts to reach the other side of a coast. They leave misery and poverty behind and seek hope for a better future, and they die on the road. My speech was that we must take joint responsibility for it and find a solution to prevent such tragedies. In the Assembly session, a summit of Presidents of the countries of the PA-UfM also took place. There Sweden was represented by First Vice-President Tobias Billström. As mentioned at the outset, there are several shortcomings. There are substandardly organised meetings and lack of foresight in terms of documentation and information. This makes the work cumbersome. Unlike colleagues in the IPU, who have a rather well-tended organization, we have a rather difficult job. Nevertheless, the revision of the Statutes carried out in 2014 and the establishment of a smaller secretariat in Brussels suggest that there is an insight into tackling the problems and moving forward. But, of course, it takes more for this to be more than a discussion forum. Whatever the case, membership still means a platform for us as delegates and for the Swedish Parliament to network and create cooperation with actors internationally but also in Sweden. During the year, I and my colleagues have also met with several of the region's ambassadors to find out which issues are relevant and to look at possible collaborations. There has been particular interest in developments in Tunisia. Tunisia is a flower of hope in a desert, for which we have great interest. We have had many meetings with Tunisia's current ambassador in Sweden, and this will continue. There was also a state visit from Tunisia during the autumn when the President hosted a seminar with the four Nobel Peace Prize winners from Tunisia. I and Vice-President Ulrika Karlsson participated. We have made a study trip to Brussels, where we have met the secretariat and met a number of institutions. We also had meetings in the European Parliament. Last spring we arranged a seminar entitled The Need for Mediterranean Integration with interesting speakers, and we have also had guest speakers at our delegation meetings. Today it is a matter of reporting back. But, Mr President, it is of course the future and the current year that we are now focusing on. Preparations for this year's Assembly Session, which will take place in Tangier from 28 to 29 May, are in full swing. In March, just over a month ago, we arranged a seminar in Parliament on the theme of the Middle East, North Africa and the refugee crisis. It was well attended, and we had speakers from the Institute of Foreign Affairs, the Red Cross and the Migration Board who helped to raise the level of knowledge among us and those who participated. We are planning a study trip this autumn as well as new seminars and maintaining an active exchange of visitors. With these words and an excuse for exceeding my registered speaking time, I once again ask for approval of the proposal to add the letter to the file.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-83	Mr President, I would like to The Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, the PA-UfM, is in short North Africa, the Middle East and the Mediterranean. The aim of the organisation is to promote peace, democracy and prosperity in the Mediterranean region. It is a parliamentary body that has an advisory role. 280 parliamentarians are members of the Assembly. Sweden has three mandates, and from the Moderates I myself and Amir Adan are included. I am pleased that I have the privilege of representing Sweden and the Swedish Parliament in this context too. My colleague Olle Thorell, who is chairing the committee, went into the problem picture with the PA-UfM, the secretariat and the low level of activity. That is regrettable, I would say. This is a very important region. Like my colleague, migration, asylum and terrorism are issues that should be raised and placed more at the centre of this parliamentary assembly at present. We know that the United Nations Refugee Agency has described the refugee situation due to the war in Syria as the worst humanitarian crisis in modern times. 12 million people are on the run. A few million have gone to Europe. We know that people die in the Mediterranean. We should be more involved in this, and this is a forum. In the Swedish delegation, however, we do not sit passively for it, but we have been active with bilateral meetings. My colleague Olle Thorell has met several ambassadors. We have previously initiated a project to strengthen trade in North Africa and to strengthen people. Too few countries in North Africa cooperate and trade with each other. In this work we try to contribute. The Swedish Parliament has been working with Tunisia for a long time to strengthen the country in the creation of a constitution. Now there has been a choice. We have been there before, and we have continued the close cooperation with Tunisia. Tunisia is a country close to my heart. I myself was invited by the President to speak in Parliament. Unfortunately, it was cancelled because of terrorist attacks, but it was a seminar on the role of women and strengthening women. There is good will within Tunisia to strengthen the role of women both within Parliament and in society. We collaborate with a project to establish younger women to work with Swedish companies in this way. This is mainly about the Swedish gaming industry. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would like to point out that, in order for us to be able to function as a delegation, we need help. I forgot to say this on the previous dossier, so I would also like to refer to it. I would like to thank the Parliament's International Office for the excellent documentation we receive and for the help we receive. Without this support, we would not be able to act and have as much activity as we have. Many thanks to the Parliament's international office! I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-V4co1ruLuugvYTp8WciS53	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister Kristina Persson, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister Gabriel Wikström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-94	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Ygeman a question about the situation of the police. Not long ago, I heard the Prime Minister speak at Stockholm City Hall to new colleagues in the police. We can see that it is a worrying time for so many police officers to stop. We must stop this. In 2015, over 800 police officers ended. 275 were under 60 years of age, 154 of whom were between 40 and 60 years of age. It's serious. Then it is not enough to take 300 to the police school, which does not even fill the training chairs.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-99	Mr President, I would like to I'm turning against the image of an escape from the police force. The latest SOM survey shows that confidence in the police is the highest in over 20 years. In addition, the police have lower staff turnover than many other authorities. It is also natural in a major reorganisation that more people choose to think about whether or not they have their future in this profession. But it is important that we continue to increase confidence in the police. This is why the police have decided to increase their admission to the Police College significantly. That is also why the government has chosen to provide more funds to the police. It is gratifying that the police continue to be an attractive authority for applicants. The number of applicants for the Police College increased by 50 per cent at the last admission.
i-647RfvPjyNvpi4D9PFU37X	Mr President, I would like to To the start of the course in January 2016, 4,589 people applied. Of these, only 266 met the minimum requirements and passed the tests. They had 300 seats, but only 257 came in. So there were 43 seats empty. The problem is that those who work in the police don't have confidence in the agency. That's not the public's problem.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-104	We want 2,000 more cops. It's gonna be hard.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-105	Mr President, I would like to It is therefore gratifying that the number of applicants in the selection round after Ulf Berg reported increased by 50 per cent and was over 6 000. That's the highest number in years. Ulf Berg can therefore rejoice that the police profession is attractive. We can also be pleased that the greatly increased intake decided upon by the police is to take place from this intake round.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-106	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. I noted last week that the Green Party and the Minister for Education have landed in the conclusion that in Sweden men and women should be treated equally. I have also noted for a long time that it is the Green Party that holds the post of Minister for Democracy. I have also noted for a long time that we have an authority in Sweden, the Discrimination Ombudsman, which reviews and drives discrimination cases. This authority has consistently taken a stand for years in cases of handshake here because it is discrimination to treat a person who refuses to shake hands with a woman or a man on the basis of sex in a special way. So it is not the person who chooses to act on the basis of the gender of the other person who discriminates. In my world, it goes without saying that it is an active act that is discriminatory, not the consequences of it.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-112	Mr President, I would like to I thank Paula Bieler for the question. I must admit that I do not have full insight into the legal ruling of the Discrimination Ombudsman on the issues mentioned by Paula Bieler. Even if I were to have full insight into the legal considerations made by the Discrimination Ombudsman in one or more individual cases, I would be strongly prevented from speaking about them. I don't think Paula Bieler would have hesitated to send me to the Constitutional Committee if I did. That is the division we have between government, legislative and judicial power, in this case an ombudsman who is in court. Last week's discussion was about how to look at a situation that arose within the Green Party. Here we are having a discussion where it has become very clear that, in these matters too, it is self-evident to treat men and women equally.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-116	Mr President, I would like to My intention was not to ask the Minister for Education to take a stand on how the Discrimination Ombudsman has acted in individual cases. For me, there is an obvious ambiguity in the Discrimination Act in what happens when two seemingly equal discrimination cases clash with each other. My view is that the active act should always be the one that gives the ruling discrimination and not the possible consequences of it.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-119	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely when different principles clash with each other that we should have great confidence in our courts to strike this balance. It would be wrong, after a balance such as Paula Bieler does not appreciate taking a political discussion about trying to persuade the Court to make a different balance. I trust that our courts have struck a good balance between the legislation we have. If they have not, I suggest that the Swedish Democrats raise a motion in the Swedish Parliament that can be dealt with in the appropriate committee.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-122	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister Ygeman. The Swedish police organisation is set under a large reorganization that centralises the structure. A month ago, what is known as new situation 2 came into being, which would mean a local police area organisation – something that has been set very high hopes in the country. We'd get local police officers in a decent numerary. However, it turned out that at the time of the start of new position 2, lots of police officers were missing to fill vacant positions with. The risk and the feeling is that we have created a paper organization or, at worst, a paper police officer.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-127	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders Åkesson for the question. I intend to continue to follow the reorganisation closely. All parties in the Swedish Parliament agree on this reorganisation, and it will have exactly the consequences that Anders Åkesson expresses: more police officers closer to the citizens. This has happened in several places around Sweden. In other places, there is still work to be done to fill the posts to be filled. Then it is gratifying that we now have more police officers in Sweden than we have in 40 years and that more resources are invested in the police than it has ever been done. There is therefore a good chance that these services will be filled.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-132	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister Ygeman! However, it could not have come as a surprise to the Government that new position 2 occurred on 1 April this year. A long sequence of decisions has been taken by both the present and the previous government in order to prepare this structure. It can be no surprise that there were great vacancies in the organization that was due to take place on 1 April. The concern, the Government, is that confidence in the reorganisation is now beginning to burst out in the country. What does the Government intend to do about it?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-135	Mr President, I would like to It is probably too early to draw the conclusions that Anders Åkesson seems to make. The reason for vacancies is that people change jobs in order to ensure more police officers closer to the citizens. This autumn, Statskontoret will provide an initial evaluation of the reorganisation. It seems reasonable to draw conclusions as to what further measures might need to be taken to ensure the goal that both I and Anders Åkesson fully agree on: more police officers closer to the citizens.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-137	Mr President, I would like to I have a question addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. In the 2016 budget, the government promised to spend 1⁄2 billion SEK on increasing the special pedagogy skills in schools, but in the spring change budget that came last week the grant is reduced by 100 million. The 100 million says the government is instead investing in school premises. It was presented in the media as a big initiative and gave big headlines. It's just that the government first reduced this year's funding to renovate school premises by 500 million and then invested 100 million. It is financed by a reduction in funding for special education. My question to the Minister for Education is: Do you not think that this is a somewhat dubious way of presenting initiatives in the field of education?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-141	Mr President, I would like to After this toxic question, I guess I'll have to replicate that I understand that bourgeois parties are driving us to need more math lessons in school. Anyone who reads the budget sees that we have not removed any money, but that we have moved money to ensure that the resources available in the school area also reach the school. One problem that has existed for quite a long time and under different governments is that we jointly allocate targeted state subsidies here or in combat in different ways but that the money burns inside when we come to the end of the year. With the situation we have at school now, with many new students, it is important that every penny we can allocate to the school actually reaches teachers and students. That's why we've made some moves. Yes, 100 million have been relocated in such a way that we can get money for the municipalities that have received most of the student increase. And yes, we have moved money to renovate school premises over the years to make it possible to plan it out in the municipalities.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-144	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. I didn't hear that acidic comment about my math skills. A comment from the Ministry of Education says that it does not make any savings, either in terms of special education, primary school or school premises, but that there are deferred payments. I would like an answer, yes or no, to the question: Does the Minister of Education think that the lack of investment in the school sector in 2016 is a saving or not?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-147	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I also thank you for the fact that we can have a good and sometimes even fun tone– others will have to judge that. No, we don't make any savings in school. However, we move money over the year to ensure that it becomes the right planning conditions. Let's take the school renovations. We would like the students to be involved in the planning of these in order for them to be done in a good way, not least when we now provide money for outdoor environments – schoolyards, simply. I think it's good that the students are allowed to plan their schoolyards, but it's not possible in a flash. This requires having a process, and then money may not be able to be paid this year.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-150	Mr President, I would like to In March, Minister Gustav Fridolin said in an interview that you don't send anything out for a referral for fun. He called the proposals counterproductive and said that they would have terrible consequences for individuals, for example through restrictions on family migration. Now the legislative proposal for a more restrictive policy on refugees has arrived. It is basically the same content as before. My question is this: does the Government really believe that the small valve that is the result of the massive criticism that has been made by both its own party and its referral bodies and, not least, by the Government itself, will lead to fewer children in rubber boats?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-152	Mr President, I would like to Let's just first see the background. Sweden took and takes a very big responsibility for the people who are on the run. During a couple of dramatic months last autumn, almost one in four people who made their way to the European Union came to Sweden. They did that because they know that we want to be a country that stands up when people in need need need help. The problem was that in the end our reception system could not cope with the situation. We were unable to maintain either political breadth or popular acceptance in relation to the protection we want to give to people who come here, through a good system for people on the run. For this reason, we were forced to take a number of time-limited measures that lie at the level of EU law. I regret the fact that there are cases of conflict. As I explained in Mrs Christina's quotes, I would like us to have joint responsibility in Europe. But it didn't happen, and that's what happened.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-155	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. That was not really an answer. Liberals will not support this. Instead, in our budget, we have financed family reunification by 2 billion. My questions remain: Why do you choose to divide families with children? In what way does integration promote that mothers and fathers should not be reunited with their children? What exactly is the Government's view of a humane refugee policy?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-158	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the most difficult things in the bill that is now being presented to Parliament. It puts us at the level laid down by EU law, within the framework of what the right of asylum requires, but it does not do what Sweden really wants, namely to give everyone who comes here and who has to stay the opportunity to quickly reunite with their family. The law is temporary. This means that when it expires, the old reunification rules will apply. There are two valves: one in the legislation and another.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-161	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Public Health and Health Wikström. I am extremely proud that we in Sweden have good quality healthcare and highly skilled staff. But we have many challenges. One area where we have major challenges is cancer care. The waiting times for care and treatment vary greatly, and unfortunately I can see that my county of Västernorrland belongs to the counties that are at the bottom of the National Board of Health and Welfare's report on waiting times and that the situation has also worsened since the last measurement.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-165	Mr President, I would like to This is an urgent issue that Kristina Nilsson raises, because, as she points out, we have great differences in waiting times across the country when it comes to cancer care. During the term of office, the Government is investing SEK 2 billion in reducing waiting times because we see to a large extent that they are unnecessary. With the right knowledge, methods and organisation, we could greatly reduce waiting times and definitely reduce differences across the country. We have begun this work for 13 cancer diagnoses. In total, they will be 18 before the end of the year. We will then proceed with the remaining cancer diagnosis in the next few years. I hope that, when the term of office is over, we can begin to see the results of the great effort that the government is now making.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-168	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Minister very much for his reply. Another more positive challenge highlighted by the Cancer Fund report is that more people actually survive their cancer diagnosis and live a good life for quite a long time with chronic cancer. I wonder: how should we ensure equal and good care for this group?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-170	Mr President, I would like to It will become increasingly important for us to be able to cope with the post-care and treatment of people suffering from chronic cancer. Therefore, it is extremely important to listen to cancer patients living with a chronic condition. We now take their opinions and experiences into account in the development of care programmes and the necessary post-treatment. I hope that this will strengthen health care.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-173	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Ygeman my question. It is about the work against organised crime. I myself have a background, among other things, as Municipal Commissioner in Södertälje when we started work against organised crime. That cooperation between the various authorities in our home was very successful. Now we see how the need has grown and is found in many places in Sweden. We have seen some new legislation that is beginning to come into place. But I would like to ask the Government: What is the work now? I have not seen the same success results in other municipalities as I have seen in Södertälje.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-175	Mr President, I would like to What Mats Pertoft said is true. Södertälje is an unusually successful example, where police tools have been able to pick out the most criminals and put them behind bars and at the same time have worked across the register with widespread local government cooperation. The Government has therefore initiated new legislation for local cooperation, so that the authorities that cooperate at national level can also cooperate at local level. Only today, the government decided on a new, secret-breaking legislation, so that the main rule is to share classified information that can contribute to criminal investigations against organised crime. We also have a single programme which I and the Minister of Justice have presented, with stricter laws for weapons and hand grenades, against wearing vests or other symbols in courts, all to push back serious organised crime.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-178	Mr President, I would like to I have observed that, in recent years, organised crime has developed new areas and entered public services much more and used rights legislation for crime. My question is this: will this development require new legislation or will it suffice what we have, as the Minister sees it now?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-180	Mr President, I would like to The answer is undoubtedly yes. We see that all the systems built up by the former bourgeois government in all its goodwill left the door wide open to cheaters and those who wanted to exploit the system. That is why much more stringent legislation is needed to prevent the misuse of our tax money. The task of investigating what legislative changes are needed has been given to Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén, so that we can target those who cheat with public funds and help finance organised crime.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-182	Mr President, I would like to On 8 April, the Southern Swedish Chamber of Industry and Commerce presented a report to the Minister for Nordic Cooperation, Kristina Persson. The report dealt with the costs caused by the incorrect design of the ID checks in Skåne. The Minister then expressed doubts that border controls would lead to a billion-dollar loss for the Öresund region, which naturally raised concerns. How could you fail a report you hadn't read? My questions to the minister are: Has the minister read the report? Has the Minister changed his mind?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-184	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is, of course, a matter of urgency that we should make the inconveniences as small as possible for the Öresund region, which plays a major role for Sweden and Denmark and the cooperation that is going on there. Only last week we had a discussion in the Nordic Council of Ministers' working group on this particular issue. On the same day, I received this report and was also able to look through it before the sitting with my colleagues. I have not questioned whether the task is correct or not. I just said the number was high. We commissioned the Secretary-General of the Nordic Council of Ministers to carry out a thorough analysis of the calculations and make own calculations of the additional costs and costs to society for the increased time it takes to commute. It should be noted that the commuter time has actually gone down. But at least we're going to do a thorough analysis.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-189	Mr President, I would like to One of the conclusions of the report was that integration in the Öresund region was in danger of deteriorating not only because of the increased commuting times. I wonder: what does the Minister and her staff intend to do, in addition to what the Nordic Council has been required to do, precisely so that integration does not deteriorate?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-191	Mr President, I would like to We have launched a special bilateral cooperation with Denmark to step up our efforts to eliminate border barriers between us, to compensate to some extent for the inconvenience caused by border controls. At all levels, between all ministers, we work closely with Denmark and other Nordic colleagues on the issue of border barriers.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-193	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Fridolin. We have problems not only with falling knowledge results in Swedish schools but also with major problems in order and reduced studies that have effects in many places. It is not only difficult to learn new things in a classroom that is messy, which particularly affects those who have the most needs in school, but it is also difficult to recruit new teachers to a working environment that looks like that, and it generally lowers confidence in school and school status. Compared to the Alliance, which carried out a wide range of reforms to increase security and education in schools, there is almost a stop to reform in this area too on the part of the government. At a time when leadership is needed in education policy, not least in order to get order in the classroom but also in order to gain more knowledge, it is quiet.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-197	Mr President, I would like to We have taken two steps that are perhaps the most important to ensure that the leadership of the headmaster and teacher is such that you can create peace and order in the classroom and at your school. It is not such measures that get the biggest headlines, they are not the easiest ones, but these are the ones that make a difference. One is national school development programmes, i.e. systematic competence development work, where we learn from the best in the school system. The truth is that while in some schools it looks like Christer Nylander describes it, we have other schools that manage to create a really good working environment for both teachers and students. They need to be taught their colleagues. They need to change your technique and learn from each other. These opportunities are created by the national school development programmes. The second is collaboration for the best school. There, the state goes in and works directly with principals on school development at the schools that have the toughest conditions, for example from a job-rospective, to ensure that the efforts that we know make a difference to gender equality and to work peace are implemented there.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-200	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals and the Alliance carried out a wide range of measures to give the Vice-Chancellor more funding and provide teachers with better tools. We set up the School Inspectorate. Liberals are prepared to do more. In our budget motion, we propose a Commission for the Reduction of Concerns at School. The Government has very little in its portfolio to meet the situation we find ourselves in. It's very boring. In a situation where we would really need leadership from the Minister for Education, I have to ask the question: Is the Government satisfied with the state of school today? Is the Government satisfied with what he has done so far?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-202	Mr President, I would like to No, we have more to do. But real leadership is to stand behind the heroes who do the job, principals and teachers, who actually know what works and who will get the right conditions to do it at their school and in their classroom. The right leadership is not to stand here and tell them how they could do it better without making sure that you learn from each other at school – and that's what we're working on. It is a little strange that the Liberals, who have criticised the government for being paralysed, when we set up a school commission on the major structural issues, believe that precisely the problems of order can be solved by another Commission.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-205	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party, together with the Green Party, carried out a major reform in 2008 to implement the possibility of labour migration. We put it in the lake and have during the trip made some adjustments to make it work even better and see the parts that do not work and where you need to open up more. One of the things we have been working on is to make it possible to switch tracks from the asylum trail to the labour immigration track. We can see that there are many different reasons for reviewing this at present, linked to the fact that we have a great deal of strain on the asylum trail. There may be an opportunity to open up here. From our side we would like to see that from day one there is the opportunity to make this exchange and that there are no closed windows. We also think that those who have been rejected should have the opportunity to change their tracks. Above all, it should be possible to make this application from here so that you do not have to leave Sweden for an uncertain trip home, if it is even possible to do, to make an application there. Is Gustav Fridolin in this work prepared to review this reform?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-209	Mr President, I would like to The reform is not on my table but on the table of the Minister for Justice, but I am answering the questions of general policy. It is important to note that we basically have a good system of labour immigration. The international assessors see it, have praised Sweden for it and have pointed out Sweden as an example in some parts. But there are a number of fundamental problems. Annika Qarlsson mentions some things that can have very strange consequences for individuals. We also have the problem of workers who are actually exploited in the Swedish labour market. If the system is to be protected, the system must also be used. From these perspectives and the international evaluations, the government is of course following the system continuously and is prepared to propose the adjustments that we consider necessary.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-212	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin and I were in a cross-political group during our first parliamentary term here in Parliament. There they worked for a humane asylum policy. Today, many who have been in Sweden for a very long time have been in contact with me. They have been refused asylum applications, and during the journey they have been able to establish themselves in Sweden – started companies, run companies and own properties – but they are now not given the opportunity to change tracks.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-215	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we need the people who can work and have the opportunity to build a life. That is basically what Sweden and not least the whole of Europe need in the face of the generational challenge that we face and the economic challenges that we face. This is also what has been the basis for the Swedish labour immigration system. I note that the migration changes that have just been discussed here mean that, at one stage, the change of track is strengthened by the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits at work.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-217	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ygeman. In 2010, the Alliance Government made legislative changes to young offenders. The changes meant that more crimes committed by young people under the age of 15 will be investigated and that all serious crimes will be investigated, i.e. rape, aggravated robbery, murder and manslaughter. The legislative changes would show that society takes this very seriously and would lead to an attempt to stop young people getting caught up in crime. The Crime Prevention Council has assessed this. Unfortunately, it has not produced the desired result. 25% of the serious crimes are not investigated, which is against the law. That is unacceptable to us Moderates. I would like to know what Minister Ygeman thinks about this. Is it acceptable that 25% of the serious crimes are not investigated? If the answer is no, what will he do about it?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-221	Mr President, I would like to The answer is simple: No, it is not acceptable. Of course, the law must be followed by the law enforcement authorities. Now I do not know the reasons why that figure is as high as it is. We must, of course, look at this and, if necessary, give clarifications to the authorities.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-222	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is good that the Government is willing to do something about it. Then I turn to another issue that is important to us Moderates, and that is that 18 to 21-year-olds have a penalty discount. Many 18-year-olds are already professionals. We think that adults should be judged as adults. For example, an 18-year-old career criterion that kills someone gets a 50% discount on the penalty. We find that unreasonable. What does Ygeman think about this?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-224	Mr President, I would like to I believe that more needs to be done with regard to this group. But I do not believe that the solution is on the criminal side but that the solution is on the detection risk side. Regrettably, the moderate-led government gave up a bleak solution to crime. Far too few crimes were cleared up, with far too few perpetrators being punished. This also applies to young people. I think we need to look at the whole legal process so that more people can see the consequences of their crimes.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-227	Mr President, I would like to Sweden received more than 160 000 asylum seekers last year. Among the asylum seekers there are many children and young people who are now to be accommodated in the Swedish school. Some of them have attended school, some have been forced to long stops because of war and flight, and some have had a sporadic or almost nonexistent schooling. Around our municipalities, this task of preparing children's education is now being worked very seriously and fully. But support is also needed.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-230	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. We often discuss the weaknesses of the Swedish school system. But I think we must also all recognise the strength we have among teachers, principals and municipalities when they so quickly managed to give children who needed a sanctuary an opportunity to start building a new life through a place in a school last autumn and until now. It is a great strength, and I am very impressed by the school's work on this. The schools will get all the support. There are three things: Firstly, it is about support in the form of financial resources and better conditions for using existing teachers, for example through better conditions for using asylum seekers' teachers and remote teaching. Secondly, it is about ensuring that everyone is involved in taking responsibility – that all municipalities take responsibility and that the schools that have the best conditions are also involved in meeting new arrivals. Too few schools do the job. Thirdly, we are learning within the school system, both through general skills development efforts and through tailor-made state support to those principals who need it when they take on a new much larger task than before. 100 such agreements will be signed this year and next year.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-235	Mr President, I would like to I sit on the Education Committee, and in the Education Committee we received a very thorough information from the Swedish National Agency for Education, which is now working with the government's big initiative, Collaboration for the best school. Part of this effort in this programme is aimed at newly arrived students. It reports general support for schools across Sweden but also targeted efforts to municipalities that have received a lot of newly arrived students in their school system.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-237	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what is needed. It is therefore a question of access to general measures. For example, if you see that you need to know more about how to teach mathematics for bilingual environments or need to know how to build mapping materials in a good way, it should be available. But it is also a question of tailor-made support for those municipalities that actually see a much larger task than they expected and who are not able to determine exactly what they need. Then the state must be able to help and write an agreement on the support that principals and teachers need. Some 100 such agreements will be signed this year and next year.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-238	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Gustav Fridolin. In the government's latest budget, we can see a sharp cut in the school system. It removes 303 million for quality-enhancing higher education and 658 million for early schooling and transfers 500 million for the reduction of school and outdoor recreation. The first two are bad suggestions enough. But the government hasn't worked very long in school, so he may not understand what this reduction means. There is a system where 1 means broken and that it should be fixed, where 2 means that it should be fixed immediately and 3 means that you can not use the tool at all. If you shift 1s so that they become 2s and 3s it becomes incredibly much more expensive than to currently fix the 1sts. I do not know if the Government sleeps well at night in view of what he does to the Swedish school system with these reductions of over 900 million that we are talking about.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-242	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot that needs to be fixed, including the political debate. To say that we are making cuts in support for students in the early years because some funds were paid out in December instead of in January is simply as close to a lie as you can get. For the previous academic year, schools were able to pay 2 billion, and all the money was paid out to hire more for students in the early years. For the coming academic years, schools will be able to provide 2.8 billion for early school pupils, including leisure centres. 2.8 billion is in all the worlds that I know of more than 2 billion – 800 million more. You'll be able to hire more people at school. That's good. We are already seeing that government policy makes a difference. There are 5 000 more people in primary school, 3 000 more in preschool and 2 000 more in leisure centres – and this has happened in one year. We're turning cuts into investments.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-247	Mr President, I would like to There have been a lot of scandals and internal attacks within the Green Party this week. It has been about handshake and Swedish values and traditions. It's been a week for the Green Party, to say the least. There are many things that raise many questions. But there is a Finnish Western tradition. It's that you don't kick someone who's already lying down. Mr President, I would like to For this reason, since I am a man of tradition and well-behaved, I choose not to ask a question about this.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-251	Mr President, I would like to Then I choose to refrain from asking supplementary questions about the inner life of the Swedish Democrats just today.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-253	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister Fridolin. At the beginning of the month, the Swedish National Agency for Education presented a survey of both the availability of IT and IT skills in the school. The survey clearly showed that more training is needed in the use of IT, both in general and as an integral part of teaching. At the same time, the Swedish National Agency for Education presented a proposal for an IT strategy for the school. It was supplemented today by elements relating to upper secondary and adult education. The strategy contains many interesting elements, including some on continuing training. The training of teachers in the use of IT in teaching seems urgent. Many municipalities have invested heavily in equipment. But teacher training has not followed, even though the Alliance government introduced IT exam targets. It is noticeably silent from the government on this issue. My question to the Minister for Education is: when can we see concrete proposals?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-258	Mr President, I would like to A day like this, when we are first met with information that the national tests in English will not be corrected because the post office has neglected the findings that have been coming out but when we then discover that they have finally been found, we understand the need for digitalisation in the Swedish school. This is a very good question. Of course, I do not share the description that nothing is happening. I note that, in eight years of an alliance government, there was no national IT strategy, although many – including Maria Stockhaus – tried to push for such a strategy to be put in place. Now we have taken the first step towards a national IT strategy. The National Agency for Education, together with experts, has developed one. It contains the elements described by Maria Stockhaus. We will move on with it and see how it can be implemented in a good way. We will also meet the experts who have different views on it. That is how politics is implemented. Of course, there should be access to further training in digitalization for Swedish teachers.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-263	Mr President, I would like to A majority in the Education Committee today decided to announce to the government to return to Parliament with a proposal for a national digital teacher's lift. I hope that it can get the issue moving, so that teachers in Sweden can get the skills they need to be able to take full advantage of the technology's opportunities and so that more students can learn more. I went to the SETT fair at the beginning of the week. It's amazing what it's bubbling with positive energy and opportunities. All teachers should have the skills to deal with the opportunities available.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-265	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree with that. There are enormous opportunities here but also challenges if we do not take advantage of the opportunities. Everyone will need to have digital skills in the labour market of the future, in fact in the labour market already today. It is also needed in order to function as a democratic citizen and to be able to communicate and express their views. It must not depend on which school you go to or what teacher you have if you are to get it with you from school. The school should bridge gaps, not expand them. That is why digital skills are needed at school. Thank you for your commitment, Maria Stockhaus!
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-268	Mr President, I would like to We have in Sweden today a business where rogue companies that ignore the fair conditions and safe working environment compete in the same market as serious haulage companies, where good conditions and safety thinking are the norm. Since it took office in 2014, the Government has given the police increased powers in the field of professional traffic. The possibility of squeezing and imposing a high fine on those who violate our laws and regulations has been introduced and has had an effect. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate the issue of stricter customer responsibility. These are important steps towards order in the haulage industry. Against this background, I wonder whether Minister Ygeman believes that the police today have the tools and resources to monitor compliance with the new laws.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-271	Mr President, I would like to The answer, of course, is yes. But there are two important abers. The first is that we have an aging traffic police force. As those police officers retire, the police are watered down on important traffic skills, which makes control work more difficult. The second is that the police are facing a historically high load. It depends on three things. We have for the first time since 1994 border controls in Sweden. It consumes a lot of resources. We have an elevated terrorist threat, which has been at the highest level since the scale was introduced. And we have the largest number of asylum seekers since World War II. Of course, this puts the organization and ability of the police to the test. It can also lead to shortcomings in the very important traffic control work at times.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-274	Mr President, I would like to Undeniably, the police face a variety of challenges. Being a traffic cop is not the easiest of tasks. It's complicated. These are demanding services where you need broad subject knowledge, which it may take years to work up. As Minister Ygeman said, many people retire. It is not easy to recruit, according to the signals I have received. Is Ygeman still as confident that the guard will be effective?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-277	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I am. But we also need to take further action. We have ATK, which means traffic cameras. We are now getting permanent alcoboms in our ports. That is very pleasing. We need to push Europe for better regulation and easier compliance with it. The Cabotage Directive and the Combined Directive are sometimes almost in conflict with each other as it is today. If we do these things right, we will have better compliance on our roads. And then the talented Swedish riders will be better off.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-281	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to the Minister for Public Health, Mr Wikström. It's about the health allowance. At a time when overweight and mental illness are leading to significant problems among the population, we should urgently find measures that can counteract these public diseases that cause increased sick leave. It has long been possible for employers to contribute to the health care of their staff. Today's regulations subsidise strength training, football and taiji, i.e. everything from hard physical training to mental relaxation. However, there are a number of sports that fall outside the Swedish Tax Agency's definition of activities that are classified as tax-free exercise and health care benefits, despite recognised good health effects. Riding is very much such health care. However, this is not part of the physical activities of the Swedish Tax Agency's regulations.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-285	Mr President, I would like to The starting point for government policy is that as many people as possible in our country should be able to exercise and sport. The sports movement can play a major role in making this possible. This is also why, as of this year, the government has increased the general funding for the sports movement by 197 million, in order to create better conditions, not least for children and young people, for exercising and exercising physical activity. The health care allowance is an important contribution. A lot of people take advantage of it. Precisely which sports will be included and how it will be designed in the future are still being prepared within the Government Office. There are many aspects to be taken into account, not least as regards equality and equality.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-287	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. During Almedalsveckan 2014, i.e. just before the election, the parties that today form part of the government promised that horseback riding would be one of the wellness options that would be approved in the Tax Agency's regulations. If horseback riding as a staff benefit is linked to one of the Swedish Riding Association's approved riding schools, one would get around the issue of expensive equipment. What does the Government think is the problem with the deduction applying to horseback riding?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-290	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the job before us is to take a holistic approach to this issue and not do what has been done in the past and just talk about individual sports separately. Then I cannot help noticing that Lotta Finstorp is using the privilege of the opposition, that is to say to accuse the current government of not doing something that the previous government failed to do in eight years in one and a half years.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-292	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Fridolin who today answers general policy questions. Radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism pose a threat to both people and states and ultimately to the values on which our society rests. At present, there is no indication that the threats that exist will disappear or decrease. Just a few days ago, the Secret Service went into staff position. According to media data, the reason is that they have been informed that IS warriors have made their way to Sweden. We are once again reminded of the importance of vigorously countering the terrorist threat. The necessary tools need to be put in place. The ability of law enforcement authorities to access secret data is one such example. It is about giving the police and security police better conditions to respond to technological developments and to the ability to read and encrypt data traffic. My question to Minister Fridolin is therefore: Is it urgent for law enforcement authorities to have access to secret data reading in the fight against terrorism?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-297	Mr President, I would like to As the group leader, Jessica Polfjärd, knows, I am answering general policy questions instead of those ministers who are not present. Minister Ygeman is here, and I fully agree with what he is going to say.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-298	Mr President, I would like to It is clear on the government's website that it is Minister Morgan Johansson who deals with such privacy issues. That is also why I addressed my question to Gustav Fridolin. Then I'll ask Anders Ygeman the same question.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-300	Mr President, I would like to The work in the government is so distributed that I am responsible for the questions of secret data reading. Yes, it is an urgent reform. Yes, the Moderates and the other opposition parties received a draft of the investigation's directive before the weekend, and we are currently agreeing with you on how to design them.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-302	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. More needs to be done to prevent Swedes from travelling abroad to join the Islamic State and other terrorist groups. Two and a half months ago, at the initiative of the Liberals, the Riksdag issued an announcement to consider how the judicial system could speed up the prevention of terrorist travel by more quickly and easily withdrawing or suspending these persons' passports, if the person is suspected of a terrorist journey.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-305	Mr President, I would like to It is as simple as that on 15 April the legislation that the previous government failed to get in place came into force, namely that there will be a stop to the misuse of Swedish passports. On 1 April, the law on the end of terrorist war voyages came into force. This legislation in force allows prosecutors to request a passport. If you do not immediately hand over your passport to the police, you must be arrested immediately. So, thanks to the current government, that legislation is already in place.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-306	Mr President, I would like to It was the then People's Party in the Alliance that set up the investigation into the misuse of passports, and that is what we have now received to Parliament and made decisions on. But it's our fault. In fact, I have checked with Parliament's lawyers, and they do not share the Government's interpretation. A suspect may be subject to a travel ban subject to a condition to surrender the passport. But if the suspect does not comply, the law does not allow the withdrawal of passports, Mr. Minister of the Interior. When will the government come back with a proposal?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-309	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that Roger Haddad has asked Parliament's lawyers. But it would also have been good if Roger Haddad had listened to the Government's reply. It is the case that anyone who refuses to give up his passport should be arrested immediately. Anyone in custody has a very difficult time travelling abroad.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-311	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Future Kristina Persson. We have all been reached by the news that the month of March was the warmest month of March ever registered. The global average temperature was 1.22 degrees above the average temperature in the last hundred years, according to the National Oceanic and Atmosphereic Administration. We have not far to reach the limit of dangerous climate impact that the UN Climate Commission and climate summit in Paris last year drew at 1.5 degrees. On 18 March, Kristina Persson's analysis group presented a report on green conversion and competitiveness. The Group's report contains policy proposals in several strategic areas. My question is how Kristina Persson and the government will push these ideas forward in order for them to come into use now that we are going to implement the Paris Agreement in Sweden?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Marianne Pet tersson, for an urgent question! Now climate and environmental policies are no longer climate and environmental policies. Now it is enterprise policy, economic policy, fiscal policy, education policy and a lot of other policies. The analysis group that I set up just over a year ago has put forward a long series of proposals that must be implemented by many ministers other than the Minister for the Environment or myself. Now a very important work is taking place to discuss with the Ministry of Industry, which owns many of the issues involved, such as the transport system's conversion to fossil-free or that the twelve industries that today emit 70% of the industry's carbon dioxide emissions should re-set and introduce a new technology that means that they can also become fossil-free in the long term. There are many other things that we propose, but I do not have time to go into them any further. But it is also about how our consumption patterns can change.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-319	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The report also points to obstacles to the transition process. I therefore wonder whether the Minister can give an example of one of the obstacles to driving the transition process. It is also about interaction between different levels.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-321	Mr President, I would like to That's a very good thing. It has been shown that many municipalities are well ahead of the central level of transition and active and progressive climate work. Sometimes our rules, laws and regulations are not helpful in the local transformation process. It is one of the recommendations of the report that an analysis should be launched in dialogue with the municipalities.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-324	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. Our healthcare is facing major challenges in the future. There are many words from the government, but fewer concrete actions. The Government of Wikström has said on several occasions that large regions are absolutely necessary for healthcare to meet the challenges of the future. I am of the opinion that more county councils should certainly become regions, but – as the Government says – I do not believe that large regions will bring good health outcomes. Small and medium-sized county councils or regions such as Halland, Kronoberg and Jönköping are well placed in terms of quality and health outcomes. Is it the position of the Government that there is a link between large regions and good health outcomes? If the solution is large regions, what research is this based on?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-328	Mr President, I would like to As Jenny Petersson points out, Swedish healthcare faces major challenges. We have an ageing population that will require more and more of our health services. We need to work much more preventively, and medical development also means that we can cure more and more people. At the same time, it poses new challenges in the sense that people live longer with chronic cancer, for example, and therefore need to consume more care. In order to meet these challenges, I believe that the current county councils are too small. Larger entities are needed to gather knowledge and experience, where stronger and more robust organisations can be built, and not least have larger economies capable of coping with the challenges of the future. The government has therefore begun work to form larger regions. Much of the analysis is, of course, based on the final report of the Committee of Responsibilities, which was presented as early as 2007.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-331	Mr President, I would like to Much has happened since 2007. Small and medium-sized county councils often show higher quality in health care, as I mentioned. Cooperation is another way that can be used – we in Halland conclude agreements with other regions. What research and evaluation beyond the study is the basis for the view that large regions automatically produce good health outcomes?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-333	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the situation we are facing is so complex that it is not possible to refer to individual research reports. This needs to be resolved through greater committee work, and that is what was done when the Committee of Responsibilities carried out its work and subsequently presented its final report. Jenny Petersson says it's been a long time since 2007. The question of larger but fewer regions has in fact been discussed ever since the beginning of the 1950s, so it is not a new issue.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-336	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the minister of the future. I rent a small cottage with my fiancée. We have a country where we grow our pots. Then it can be good-- if you're lazy like me and you can't dig – to have a ground cutter. But it feels quite unnecessary to buy a grinder just to mill once or twice a year. With the sharing economy and digitalisation, however, it becomes so smooth that I can easily find someone nearby who can rent out their ground cutter. The sharing economy is much more than ground cutters. I think that environmental and economic is a very smart way to share cars, homes and other kinds of gadgets. The development that is taking place now is very positive. Then I wonder why there are so many negative signals from the government regarding the collaborative economy. You talk about some companies being banned. You talk about hard regulations. It identifies certain services and claims that they are to be viewed as, for example, black taxis. Why, Minister of the Future, are you so negative to the future?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-342	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I do not think we are at all negative, especially the analysis group that recently put forward proposals that we need to invest much more in resource efficiency and the circular economy. These proposals will now be examined by the responsible government ministers and discussed in the Government Office. I believe that we will be able to find solutions to some of the problems we find today. This helps to make the economy less resource-depleting and, of course, also to make the use of financial resources more efficient. I believe that there are a great many advantages to the fact that we in the government are facilitating the use of such methods. With regard to the people who work on digital platforms, we need to introduce income insurance schemes. There must be security for them too. Of course they should also pay taxes. That is how the discussions are taking place today.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-345	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is very important to comply with tax regulations and other things, but I think it is quite easy to handle because the transactions are digital. You don't get in the back seat of a car and hand over a hundred. It should be possible to handle quite easily. The signals now coming from the Minister for the Future are much more positive than those from other ministers. I hope that the work of this working group will spread to the rest of the government, because now there are very negative signals about something that is very good.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-347	Mr President, I would like to I believe that there is an opportunity to resolve at least some of these problems. Since we are keen to have an economy in which everyone participates and where everyone can support themselves, we need to acknowledge the emergence of self-employment. We already see that a very large proportion of those who work are self-employed or self-employed. That is why we must also make it easier for the kind of supply that this means. I think it will grow in the future.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-348	Mr President, I would like to My question is put to Minister Gabriel Wikström. In the case of tobacco, in the case of snus, the prohibition sheer trend appears to have taken place in the Ministry of Social Affairs, not least in the case of tobacco. In three weeks' time, on May 20, all snuff packs had to be relabelled to be delivered to the store, we had to take part of yesterday. It's an extremely short transition period. Of course, the proposal has been discussed for some time, but it has also changed over time and, like many other proposals put forward, it is difficult at present to know which decision is finally coming. My simple question is: does the Government think it is reasonable to have a transition period of as extremely short as three weeks?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-351	Mr President, I would like to What we are talking about is an EU directive that was negotiated in 2013 and adopted in spring 2014. Then the then bourgeois government set up an investigation that looked at how this could be implemented. The investigation was completed last February, 2015. Both in the investigation and in the directive it was clear that this was to be implemented on 20 May this year. What this means is that the production of tobacco packaging must be redeployed by 20 May 2016 at the latest, while products manufactured before that date may continue to be sold until 20 May 2017. This has been well communicated. The tobacco industry, through its representatives, has been involved in discussing the proposal in various ways and has turned the argument around. If the snus were to end in business on 21 May, it would therefore be the responsibility of the tobacco industry.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-353	Mr President, I would like to It's not that simple. We have also had a discussion about the content and how the flavour composition and labelling should look like. As MEPs Carl Schlyter from the Green Party and Christofer Fjellner, among others, have written very clearly, it was then a question of a misconception and a miswrite from the EU. In this case, we want to prevent the snus from seeing how much nicotine there is. It is a prohibition to want to introduce this. Does the Minister think that the EU would sue Sweden if it were to say how much nicotine the snuff contains?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-354	Mr President, I would like to Non-prescription of nicotine is due to the fact that one should not be able to market a tobacco product as less nicotine-containing than others and thus claim that it is healthier. Christian Holm Barenfeld calls this a ban. In that case, it is a prohibition which the former bourgeois government negotiated and which we share with the other EU states.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-356	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. It concerns an assignment that the government has given to the Swedish National Agency for Education to review the high school of nature conservation. For those who do not know, I can say that this is a vocational programme at upper secondary school. A proposal has been made, and this has raised questions and uncertainties among teachers, organisers, parents and, above all, students. The worst part is that the proposal is planned to be launched by autumn 2016 even though the students have already applied. Then my question to the Minister for Education is: does the Minister think it reasonable that students and organisers today, on 28 April, still do not know what applies to the education that students are interested in and intend to start this autumn?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-359	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Malmberg for the question. Of course, all questions should be prepared in such a way as to involve those concerned. This is precisely the question, as Betty Malmberg knows, under High School Minister Aida Hadzialic. I cannot therefore give any detailed answers to the question, but just clarify the principle we are working on. The principle is that those concerned should be involved in such a way that they can operate on the basis of the regulations that we have. However, the fact that such a review has been under way and that stakeholders have been involved in the review has been known for a long time.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-360	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. What I see as a question of decency to take on board is that today, on 28 April, we are writing, but neither students nor organisers know what should apply to this education. I think it would be nice for the department to go forward and make it clear to the students what is going on. I hope that the Minister will take this along with him and also put it before the High School Minister.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-362	Mr President, I would like to Of course, all ministers take care of the questions that come up for Question Time as well as other questions that come from Members of Parliament. In this case, I know that this is a matter well known to the Minister for High School. The background is that we have seen quite a lot of problems in terms of a number of different vocational training courses that have not got the attractiveness that they need. It has therefore been welcomed that various reviews are being carried out. But of course they should be done together with those concerned.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-364	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Sport Gabriel Wikström. In this year's budget, the Government allocates SEK 64 million to the sports movement for work on integration of new arrivals, without any further specification or regulations. The sports movement today includes about 3 million members and some 600 000 non-profit leaders. The fact that almost half of the Swedish sports movement today consists of women does not necessarily mean that girls and boys, women and men do sports in the same way and under the same conditions. On the contrary, relatively extensive sporting research has shown that sport itself and its forms are still influenced by unequal ideas about female and male. My question to the Government relates to how funding linked to equality and integration, as I mentioned, is followed up by the government.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-367	Mr President, I would like to It is true that this year we are allocating 64 million to the sports movement. This money has already come in handy. The sports movement has made a fantastic effort to create good activities for new arrivals that can mean a first step into Swedish society. This can mean that they get in touch and start learning the Swedish language and certainly that they get a meaningful employment. This has also meant that the Swedish sports movement has developed. We know that in places where the football team might otherwise have had to close down or where it has been difficult to find participants and leaders, there is now a burgeoning activity. As I said, the money has already started to bear fruit. This money is followed up just like the other grants we give to the sports movement in the form of formal dialogues that take place during the year but also in the form of more informal reports and contacts. We have an ongoing and very good dialogue with the Swedish sports movement to see how this money can be used even better.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-370	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. We know that there are major differences in the handling and work of more or less closed associations today. There are also so-called risk environments for radicalisation, separation and also inequality and inequality, and it reinforces exclusion. My question remains: does the Government follow up on what I mention in the grant?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-371	Mr President, I would like to As I just mentioned in my introduction, we are following up on this. We follow it up in dialogue, and we turn the problem around together with the Swedish sports movement. We know that we face many challenges in the field of sport. But we also know that we have a fantastic model for meeting these, that is, the Swedish popular movement model. I am convinced that we will solve many of the problems raised by Bengt Eliasson here today.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-374	Mr President, I would like to Some issues have topicality in the media, others have a constant topicality for individuals. I ask my question to Minister for the Future Kristina Persson, who is also responsible for Nordic issues. Many pensioners moved from Norway to Sweden during the 2000s. It was lower taxes, and it was lower prices. Thus, they might also have had the opportunity to get a small gold edge in older days. On 1 January 2009, the Nordic Tax Agreement with new double taxation rules entered into force retroactively. This meant that many of these Norwegian pensioners were trapped. They didn't get the right information during this time. During the autumn session of the Nordic Council here in Stockholm in 2014, the Government promised to take the initiative by reviewing the matter again. My question is, in short, how has this happened?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-378	Mr President, I would like to It is very regrettable that there are Norwegian pensioners, who are very welcome to settle down in Sweden, who believe that they received incorrect information. We have gone through the matter thoroughly several times. This happened quite a long time ago. There weren't a lot of people like that either. The Swedish Tax Agency and the Ministry of Finance have been involved in the matter on several occasions and found that they cannot find any evidence that there has been any error. Today, the information works. It's well-known enough. Today, no new cases like this arise, at least as far as I know. The questions should at this point be depreciated. That is, in any case, what I know is not an outstanding issue for the Swedish Tax Agency at present.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-381	Mr President, I would like to Minister for the Future Kristina Persson promised to present a presentation at the spring session in Copenhagen in 2015. It wasn't on the agenda. I also sat on the autumn session in Iceland 2015, and then it was not there either. Now during the spring session in Oslo a little over a week ago, it was not there either. Well, the minister of the future, there are new cases of misinformation. How does the Minister for the Future intend to help the Norwegian pensioners who have been put at risk?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-383	Mr President, I would like to If there are new cases, this means that the information does not work. If so, it is a matter for the responsible authorities on both Norwegian and Swedish sides to ensure that it does. As the issue has been known for so long, it surprises me that it has not worked. It's thoroughly investigated. If there are those who believe that they have been wronged or that they have been misinformed by the authority, there is really nothing left for them but to take legal action against the authority.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-384	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Gustav Fridolin. Medical help fulfils a hugely important function for many students' ability to assimilate the school and their education. It is an important complement that provides the opportunity for extra support, another angle of attack or just another environment to sit and tangle with the questions students themselves need help with. The Government announced the next week what future initiatives will look like when it comes to support for non-profit associations that are doing homework help around Sweden. What the Minister talked silently about is the fact that the government intends to change so that it no longer applies to high school students. They shall no longer be eligible for aid in the field of homework assistance. These non-profit organisations are making a huge contribution for Swedish school students. According to us in the Alliance, it goes without saying that it should also apply to older students. According to the government, why are secondary school pupils no longer as important as primary school pupils in receiving homework help?
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-388	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with what homework help can mean. Students get extra time and the opportunity to read more about a subject and get a more individualised education. It is very important for students to reach the goals not least in the step between primary and secondary school. The final years of comprehensive school are crucial to reaching the goal of upper secondary school. For this reason, we have increased the funding for homework. We have made changes to regulations to ensure that funds can also reach out to schools. It has been one of the regulations that has been written in such a way that many schools that organised homework help still did not feel that they could take part in the funds, which is of course unfortunate, because money is burning inside. This also made a change in relation to non-profit associations, which meant that associations that arrange homework aid in upper secondary schools can no longer take part in the funds. We are now reviewing this. That was not the intention of the changes.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-391	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Gustav Fridolin. The non-profit associations that carry out great efforts not only play an extremely important role by acting as a complement to teachers. We can also see in terms of evaluation that all the investments that were made during the alliance also lead to better school results. I am delighted that the Government is aware of the mistake and that, as I understand the answer, it intends to correct the mistake and ensure that, in future, secondary school pupils also benefit from the support.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-394	Mr President, I would like to Let me use my speaking time of 30 seconds to describe how incredibly obvious the lack of a chain of control over the Swedish school system becomes when we are forced to stand here and discuss how regulations are designed. We spend money from the state level because we want to reach the schools. But it is difficult to get it in such a way that the money really gets through. During the bourgeois reign – and it was certainly the same in previous governments before, and we will certainly have the same problem with some of our contributions – money burned inside. That is why we are going through regulation to get money. That was also the intention of these changes in the regulation.
i-29c4c0b331411fa9-396	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the Members who have participated in Question Time.
