i-20ba58f4d1759471-2	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder has asked me if it is my position that it is an appropriate order that the Swedish Tax Agency has a special position among public limited liability companies' creditors, what effects I believe this can be expected to have on today's and tomorrow's entrepreneurs in Sweden, when I intend to set up an investigation into rules on personal liability and why it has delayed, despite Parliament's decision on urgent handling. The questions are raised in the light of, among other things, Parliament's announcement on a review of the provisions on tax liability. The rules on representative liability came into being in response to the problems identified with tax losses, particularly in the case of limited liability companies. The companies often continued their activities long after they had been wound up. When they were finally declared bankrupt, previous debts to individual creditors had been paid in full or to such a large extent that only minor amounts remained in comparison with tax debts. The conclusion reached was that the form of the company had been used more or less deliberately to allow the general costs of the business to be borne as far as possible. My starting point is that the reasons for introducing tax liability continue to be viable. The impact of representative responsibility depends, of course, on the way in which the rules are drawn up and how they are applied. It is important that rules are clear and appropriate. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Tax Agency has specifically highlighted a number of issues, namely the application of the possibility of granting so-called creditor relief, thereby giving the company a time limit that extends beyond the ordinary due date of the tax and how the Authority takes into account the rules on total or partial exemption from representative liability. The Tax Agency's report on the assignment is part of the basis for the Government's continued work in response to the Parliament's request for a review. Preparation is under way in the Government Office, and I am not prepared to anticipate that preparation.
i-20ba58f4d1759471-10	Mr President, I would like to It is nice that the Minister for Finance is taking the time to come here and discuss this important issue for me. We also discussed the responsibility of representing a Question Time the other week, and I intend to continue that discussion. I am convinced that both the Minister for Finance and I want a welfare that we can be proud of and that gives the citizens the support they need. In order to be able to pay for such a welfare, we need sufficient tax revenue, and in order to create this revenue we need companies. Sweden is dependent on companies starting, growing and staying in Sweden. Entrepreneurship, the willingness to risk and the creative entrepreneurship of these companies must be given additional conditions, not stifled. They are needed to create values that in turn generate jobs and strengthen welfare. Therefore, I am concerned that those who start and run companies are experiencing concerns about working in Sweden today. They estimate the cost of failing too high and therefore sometimes refrain from starting a business. Both the Minister for Finance and I know of cases where the liability of the representative has caused major financial consequences for the individual. This applies both to larger companies, where large amounts can be involved, and to the individual entrepreneur. An entrepreneur has long run a store, but sales are deteriorating. He's making a little more effort to reverse the trend. But soon the mountain will be too big to climb over, and he will have to give up. Then tax debts fall directly on the individual. Unfortunately, the fear of ending up in such a situation is great. An activity that, if given a little more time, could have been reversed and continued for many years may be called for bankruptcy too quickly. I believe that representative responsibility and its design are evil for Sweden as a nation and for those entrepreneurs who would like to start a business but refrain from fear of unreasonable consequences. In my question to the Minister of Finance during Question Time the other week, I pointed out that the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor's study shows that 35% refrain from setting up a business because of fear of representing responsibility. I think we should think about how we can change that. According to the decision of the Riksdag, the government will review this, I cannot see, however, that the investigation has come very far. That is why I ask the Minister for Finance: what does the floor mean urgently for the government? And when can we expect a response to the Riksdag so that we can make a decision to remove representative responsibility and its consequences for Swedish entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship?
i-20ba58f4d1759471-20	Mr President, I would like to Entrepreneurship is extremely important for the Swedish economy, and in Sweden we have many talented entrepreneurs and a strong capacity for innovation. It is gratifying to see that the number of start-ups is increasing, and it is of course positive that more people want to start a business in Sweden. It is also one of the reasons why jobs are growing and that 120 000 new jobs have been created in the last two years. The opportunity to study entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship already in school is also important, because in this way we get young people interested in starting their own business. The government is pursuing a policy to increase entrepreneurship. We have, among other things, redeployed state venture capital so that more of the money available can be used. At the same time, it is important that the state receives the tax money that has been decided upon. If there are no rules on representative liability, the State is in danger of losing tax revenue that it is entitled to have. However, as I said in my previous speech, it is important that these rules are applied in a balanced manner. Today's legislation provides for a time limit for paying your tax debt in order to be able to run the company further. It is, of course, important that the Authority makes appropriate use of this possibility. That is also why we urgently commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to review this. Since then, the Entrepreneurship Committee's investigation, which deals with these issues, has also come. It is now out for a referral, which is why the preparation work continues in the Government Office. We will of course return to the Riksdag. If greater changes are made to representative responsibility, the state risks losing tax revenue. Therefore, I ask Larry Söder: What expenditure is Larry Söder prepared to cut in to finance a reduced representational responsibility? Or what taxes does he think it is appropriate to raise?
i-20ba58f4d1759471-27	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister for Finance did not answer when I can expect the investigation to be placed on Parliament's table for consideration. I hope that this will come in a later speech in one way or another. I also note that I and the Minister for Finance have completely different views on state finances and whose money is. I think we should let entrepreneurship live more in Sweden so that people can try their wings, just as we promote different types of entrepreneurship in upper secondary school and comprehensive school. But when you get into adulthood, you go into a big wall and hear that entrepreneurship is something you have to take responsibility for yourself. I believe that we as a state must take greater responsibility and promote entrepreneurship a little more. Then more companies will be able to grow and come into existence. This means that more tax revenue comes into government finances. There will be no less tax revenue if you change the representative's responsibilities, but there will be more. That's where we split up. The Swedish Parliament's majority has given a mandate to submit an investigation as soon as possible. I do not know what the Minister of Finance means by haste. It would be interesting to know whether it will come next year, because I think that this discussion needs to be conducted. I can make an illustration that may not be quite correct but shows how I view it. When someone is faced with a court, the idea is that it is better to free than to convict when you do not have sufficient evidence. However, the present government imposes restrictions, tax increases and regulatory changes which presuppose that all entrepreneurs are convicted in advance and that everyone should receive the penalty. How could it be that you constantly create rules and taxes based on the click that exploits and escapes all forms of punishment and will probably do so even later? It will be the hard-working, legal entrepreneurship – those who want to do the right thing – who will pay the price. I still argue that entrepreneurship needs to be promoted more. We have discussed on an earlier occasion the possibility of resources in the form of money for young entrepreneurs, and I think that this must also be done. But what we teach young people in comprehensive school and high school, that is, it is good if Sweden gets more entrepreneurs, more starters and more people who believe in their idea, we have to stand for when they come out into adulthood as well. We're not doing that today. This is important.
i-20ba58f4d1759471-34	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder says all entrepreneurs are punished. It's a very strong expression. I find it difficult to see that all entrepreneurs are punished by representative responsibility. We do not want entrepreneurs who engage in a serious business to be outcompeted by entrepreneurs who for various reasons are tax frauds. Without representative liability, it increases the possibility for companies that do not want to pay their taxes to be able to continue to operate and ultimately not to pay this tax. This will lead to a deterioration in the conditions for companies that are trying to do the right thing. We believe that representative responsibility is an important way of working against serious organised crime and other financial crime. Since it is usually the money you are looking for, it is possible to access through representative responsibility the money that individuals earn from crime or serious organised crime. Larry Söder told me whose money it is. If it is taxes that are decided, they should of course be paid into the general, but of course it is important that you can be deferred when appropriate. It is important that the Swedish Tax Agency makes a good assessment there. It is not that the government has not taken any action after the announcement came, but we have commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to look at this. Their response has now come in, and we are preparing it and, of course, the referrals and proposals that have come in from the Entrepreneurship investigation. Of course, these are complex issues, and it is important that the preparation can be conducted carefully. Larry Söder didn't really answer the question of what to cut back on. It is clear that tax revenues are at risk of falling, and then you cannot just sit and hope that tax revenues will increase somewhere. For me, it is important that we can ensure that we can properly fund our common welfare. The Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government have ensured that we have reduced the large deficits that the state finances had during the time that Larry Söder's party was in government position. We think it is important that we have order in public finances, because we care about the common welfare – that our young people can go to school, have good teachers, have the opportunity to feel the wonderful feeling of turning the key to their first home and getting the opportunity to work or to further education to enter the labour market. All this we think is important, and that is why we stand up for the secure financing of common welfare.
i-20ba58f4d1759471-42	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance brought the Tax Agency into the debate. It is widely known that the Swedish Tax Agency makes different interpretations in different parts of the country – sometimes you are harder and sometimes a little nicer. It is therefore important that the investigation is presented so that we can make decisions in the Riksdag and give the Swedish Tax Agency clear rules to follow. I am of the opinion that people do not always fit into an economic table. I think people do things based on how they feel the future can be. If we change entrepreneurship so that people get a little more air under their wing and can create more companies and hire some more, I think it will be a profit for the state finances. I do not think, as the Minister for Finance, that you have to suck out the last krona from all entrepreneurs just because they are entrepreneurs right now. It is also necessary to ensure that new businesses and tax revenues can be created. I therefore wonder why the Minister for Finance has a different view from me on money. I believe that the money is the citizens' and businesses' money from the start. As a state, we should take in the money needed to carry out the welfare we think is needed, but the rest of the money should stay where it is most useful. We will ensure that people can make their own choices, create businesses and invest their money to create new businesses. There we have completely different views. I respect the view of the Minister of Finance in relation to representative responsibility, but I believe that urgent means that the investigation must be brought to Parliament as soon as possible. I still have no clarity as to whether it will come in, for example, next year, which would be a good thing. I hope that the Minister for Finance will be able to give a clear answer there, even if this is complicated.
i-20ba58f4d1759471-47	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder said suck out the last crown. Basically, it is about paying the taxes that are owed to the public. I think we should do that, but maybe here we have different opinions. Paying your taxes is not sucking out the last crown. Our entire welfare system is based on paying taxes. We wouldn't have any kindergartens or preschools if we didn't have tax payments. We wouldn't have schools, teachers, school food, frits or schoolyards if we didn't pay taxes. We would not be able to provide support for building more rental apartments so that young people can leave home if we had no tax. We wouldn't have any buses going to and from school, workplace and home if we didn't pay taxes. I don't think this is sucking out the last crown. It is important that we have a well-functioning tax system, reasonable rules and a tax system that is able to derogate from the rules we have. We have this today, but of course we will follow Parliament's order and see if we need to make any change in them. We're working on that at the Ministry of Finance.
