i-8bd884e864ce0043-1	Madam President, I would like On January 21, 2002, 26-year-old Fadime Sahindal was murdered by his father. She was then as old as I am today. She was a social democrat and active in SSU Jämtland, and many remember her strong will and tireless commitment. Here in Parliament, she gave an unforgettable speech the year before she was murdered. She had been invited to talk about oppression and violence in the name of honor. She said: I want to share my experiences, and I hope that through them you will gain understanding and knowledge of how vulnerable immigrant girls can have it. It is not my intention to point out any scapegoat, but I would like to help you understand how and why conflicts such as these can arise from both my own point of view and that of my family. Fadime was born in a village near the town of Elbistan in the Kurdish part of Turkey. The family owned land and made a living from animal husbandry. Each member of the family had a clear role in the common work but was forced to flee to Sweden for economic reasons. Fadime told us that the material existence in Sweden made the family survive but that the life of the family members changed as the children grew older. Fadime said: The first signs I noticed were that I was no longer allowed to play with my friends or participate in activities outside the school. I would go straight home and help my mother with household chores and be raised a fine girl. When I became a teenager, my parents wanted me to go to Turkey and marry one of my cousins, just as my older sisters had previously done. I refused to accept this. I felt too young and immature for such a big decision. Besides, I wanted to decide for myself who to share my life with in the future. Here in Sweden, it has been discussed for a long time what repression and violence in the name of honour is, what it is that bases oppression and what it is that creates an honorary standard – above all how we should act to combat it. It is still Fadimes's own words that give us the best answer to what we must work for in order to combat oppressive standards. She said: I want to set my own conditions for my life, make my own mistakes and learn from them. I want to stand on my own two legs and take responsibility for my own actions, not let anyone else decide how to think, think and act. It is also extremely important for me to be able to educate myself and develop as a person. The murder of Fadime awakened national grief in Sweden. The fact that Pela Atroshi had been murdered for the same reason just a few years before made us all realize that the dark talk is great and that we, as representatives of society, must do more. In essence, Fadimes's speech, as I understand it, is about a question of power and universal values, about the right to one's own body, about being able to love the one you want, to be formed and developed, and ultimately to live just as you want to. Here in Sweden, we have spent time analysing the intentions of the perpetrators. It is an important element in understanding the problems and in identifying which structures are responsible for the repression. At the beginning of the 21st century, the dominant theory was that all oppression against women was born out of the same culture and structure. To see violence in the name of honour as a special form of oppression was considered a sloping plan against Swedish-democratic rhetoric. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that this is not entirely unproblematic. I personally have experiences of teachers and other adults around me who, as I grew up, asked strange questions about my father and adults around me. It was when the rhetoric of society developed into a collectivist debt towards all men of Middle East origin, as if all share the same world view and views and live by the same standards and structures. It is a stigmatising idea to draw conclusions that equate everyone, and perhaps that was the reason why many showed fear of touching the questions, not least myself. Madam President, I would like Those of us who work on justice-related issues must work to ensure that the debate on society moves in the same direction as the one on which our criminal law is based, i.e. the individual examination of the perpetrator's actions. On the other hand, I understand that we are dealing with a collectivist problem because it is a question of oppressive standards and structures. Honorary oppression and violence usually do not have one of the perpetrators, but several. It is a collectivist oppression based on sexual cultural violence. Madam President, I would like Criminal law is the backbone of our legal society. It describes when an act is so socially reprehensible that it needs to be criminalised, both in order for us to live in a secure society and in order to give the victim some form of redress and justice. Why I wanted to start the debate by describing the repression of honour and violence is in order in some way to give redress to all those who have experienced that my party or parts of my party have had fear of dealing with the issues in the past and have not taken that kind of repression more seriously. Today we know that this action has been wrong, that it has been a serious betrayal. In any case, I would like to have said in this House that there should in no way be, at least not from me. According to the UN Commission on Women, Sweden as a State Party is required to take all appropriate measures to change the social and cultural behaviour of men and women in order to abolish practices that lead to oppression, harm and violence against the individual. We also know that oppression affects men and LGBT people as well. From the opposition parties there has been a great deal of media criticism against the government parties on the issue. The opposition parties are today calling in one of the announcements in the report for the government to review the legislation relating to honour-related crimes. We all know that there is much to be done to combat standards and structures. We have to invest in schools. We need to talk about the structures. We must act in this spirit to clarify what applies in society and also to support the organisations, women's shelters and other actors working for that purpose. I would also like to remind you that the government has allocated another SEK 100 million to strengthen the voluntary women's shelters' involvement in the work since 2015. The national coordinator tasked with bringing about a pool of forces to combat violence in close relations has submitted the report Violence in close relations – a public health issue. The coordinator considers that it is necessary to investigate further whether honour-related motives for a crime should constitute an aggravating circumstance for the penalty value. The question of conspiracy to commit a crime is also mentioned by the coordinator. The report is currently being prepared in the Government Office. We therefore believe that a review should be postponed. We have therefore reserved ourselves against the majority's proposal on this subject, although we recognise that there are problems. We believe that it is necessary for the matter to be prepared during the time that has been laid down. I would also like to comment on the two further announcements. The property protection investigation has dealt with the issue of systematic theft. The assessment of systemic property offences is set out in the report currently being prepared in the Government Office. Here, too, I mean that Parliament should not anticipate the preparation. That is why we do not support that announcement. To conclude, we have a special opinion on the penalties for gross violation of peace and gross violation of women's rights. The penalties were tightened on 1 July 2013, which means that they have been in force for a relatively short period of time. That is why I think it is far too early to draw any conclusions on implementation. Prosecutions that have taken place in 2014 may contain a lot of acts that have been committed before the amendment. Having said that, available statistics show that the proportion of people convicted of violations of peace to short sentences has fallen significantly in 2014. The government is also continuously following the development of the time limits for violations of peace. In this report, which deals with criminal law as a whole, I chose to focus on honour-related violence and repression. I think it is important to stress that we in the Committee on Justice have no quarrels and that it is a very united committee that has analysed the issues and landed in similar conclusions. Of course, criminal law and extended clauses in the Criminal Code are not the decisive elements, but they can still lead to changes in norms, structures and views in society. Criminal law has a special role to play, and we as politicians must, of course, weigh in when changes are necessary, proportionate and, above all, socially justifiable. In that direction, we must work. Fadime asked us not to turn our backs. It is therefore our fundamental duty to pursue a justice policy that, as a whole, leads us to a safer society for all, but above all for those at risk of crime. With those words, we agree with our reservations, but we will not be in favour of them.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-26	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Redar for the last speech – a good and relevant post. This reinforces me in the fact that we are going to make quite good decisions today. It was a good explanation of why criminal law exists but also of the problem of honour-related violence. As has been said, criminal law is the ultimate mark of society against acts that are considered to be particularly reprehensible. Of course, criminal law changes over the years. As far as we are concerned, we have now, and also throughout the entire government, indicated that criminal law must show how we view violence against individuals, particularly against the integrity of individuals and, above all, against physical integrity. It is about everything from assault to murder but also about sexual crimes, where we have gradually tried to tighten the penalties to mark how seriously we view this. Often the debate in this House has been about whether punishment is good or bad. That's what the dividing lines have been like. It feels good that we now do not have a little bit of that discussion. Often when we have wanted to correct the penalty scales, it has been said that we in the Alliance are only talking about sharpened penalties. Then the discussion has gone against the fact that punishment does not help anyway. No conclusion has been reached at all. As far as we are concerned, it is important that society can actually go in with pro-rata measures. Now this is not a report on penitentiary, but, of course, it is also the case that society has the opportunity to help a person get back on the right track. Many times it is people with inadequate education. You have gone wrong, you may have had difficult growing-up conditions and you need support and help in life. The discussion that we have had about whether or not we should be punished, I hope, therefore, is passed. Having said that, those who argue against penalties in certain areas tend to demand stricter penalties for, for example, sexual offences. Today, the Parliament makes three announcements. It's important. As Mrs Redar has so well argued for, we believe that it is necessary in the specific case of honour-related crimes because it is going too slowly. As I said, we have a national coordinator who has been able to point out that these particular parts need to be further investigated. The political position now, and what surprises us very much, is that, although you share the coordinator's view, you need a very long time to decide whether to investigate this problem – as you explain so well, you need to be investigated. We find that hard to understand. Because it is important for the Riksdag to tell you that now you have to hurry up a little bit. With regard to the violations of peace, it is also an announcement, namely to follow up the previous legislation of the Alliance Government in the field of punitive measures. Then it is said that there is no evidence. No, that's right – you usually wait a couple of years to see how practice has developed. But we know that the basis will already be in place in June. So there is no reason to wait any longer. This government is progressing too slowly, and then we in Parliament must say so. After all, it is not that we squeeze an announcement every time an investigation has been set up or one looks at problems. But when we feel that certain important issues are being drawn at too slow a pace, then the legislator must react. An important new position in the Swedish Parliament today concerns the concept of systematic theft. It is important in that it is linked to the debate that has always been held on penalty rebates, i.e. that one looks at each individual act separately but ignores systematic crime and that there is therefore relatively low penalties. There has not been a greater consensus in the Riksdag, but we are now approaching a point where there is a consensus in the Riksdag about reviewing this system, which is being criticised from many different quarters. That is an important position. To this – this is, of course, a comprehensive report on all criminal matters – we in the Moderates, together with alliance colleagues, stress the importance of starting to look more closely at what is happening on the Internet. Here we must start to regulate more and more quickly. It is abuse that is taking place at an increasingly rapid pace, in increasingly severe form and at different levels. We are now faced, not least, with reports of the problem of men forcing young girls, not least, to commit serious acts against themselves. The sanctions are horrifyingly low, as they are actions that destroy the lives of a young person for a long time to come. We also want to raise small-scale crime, where we see distortions in the system. Kind of reminds me of systematic theft. There is what we call shoplifting in Sweden. But whoever is a criminal or a serious criminal and a smart man learns the system. Today it is the court that decides where the line goes between so-called shoplifting and theft. The limit is today set at 1 000 kroner. If you are gifted enough, you systematically commit a number of such crimes in a number of stores at overall very large values. But the labeling will be shoplifting. We do not find this satisfactory. Curiously, the argument put forward by the majority in committee has been that value does not matter. I think we believe that value matters. 900 kroner 20 times is 18,000 kroner. Then there is a significant amount of money. Value has some significance when there is a systematic crime campaign. Another part that has been discussed for many years is the so-called metal theft. They're not as frequent right now when the copper price has gone down. But we can be absolutely sure that when the copper price rises again, and it always does, we will again see this type of crime. Of course, stolen church roofs may seem serious. But it has been a serious crime in that way to dig up wires and commit crimes that are often fatal to the person who commits the crime – some have probably very quickly measured the punishment for themselves while trying to get to the pipelines – but which also put others in danger of life. There was an investigation in this case. We think you need to look further, because you probably did not come to a conclusion that will really solve the problem once the copper price is coming up again. For our part, it is important to follow developments, we are the legislative power. The Government has the task of leading the country but also of producing the necessary documentation so that we as legislators can make the decisions. We have a court system that, in everyday life, is to manage the regulation that we have here decided on, and we have a supreme court that is to be the foremost interpreter. It is very important in a functioning democracy that we all play these roles. As legislators, we should not take the role of the Court, nor should the Court try to take the role of the legislator, because then the Swedish system will not work as it has been before. If so, it will require a different type of work. We are following developments closely. When we think that the scale of the penalties is distorted, especially when it comes to violent crimes, we will act – time and again. I therefore request the approval of reservation 5.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-50	Madam President, I would like There are many reservations in this report that I would have liked to support. We stand behind all our r reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 35 and 48. In this report, which deals with criminal matters, there are, as previous speakers have mentioned, three announcements. There are therefore three issues in which a majority in Parliament condemns the government, even if I do not know whether the government parties are asking for approval of all their proposals on these points. The first is to make an evaluation of the violations of peace, which tightened the penalties in 2013. The SD has proposed to further tighten the penalties for violations of peace. That is why we supported the proposal to investigate these crimes in order to provide a better basis for our ambition to tighten up the penalties. The second concerns the so-called honour-related crimes, which we have addressed in various motions and in reports from various committees. This problem has been raised more and more, and it will not diminish in the future. That is why we believe that a review of the law is good and that it should be done sooner rather than later. Finally, we have formed a majority in terms of the penalty rebate for systematic theft. The Swedish Democrats have long wanted to review the penalty rebate in Sweden. For five or six years in a row, we have now made proposals to tighten the rules on the penalty rebate and, in some cases, to remove it entirely in the case of so-called multiple crime. This proposal is a small step in this direction. We would rather take a small step than nothing at all, and that is why we support this announcement. The other reservations we have in this report are supported. I'll comment on some of them, but not all of them. As before, we have proposals for real life sentences. We do not see why life sentence should sometimes mean 16 years, which was the average time last I checked, but some penalties should mean that you never come out again. We want to see more stringent penalties for trafficking in human beings and for that matter for trafficking in human beings as well. We want to see increased minimum penalties for the purchase of sexual acts by children. Instead of fines as a minimum penalty, we believe that it should be prison. This also applies to minor child pornography offences, where fines are the lowest penalties today, which we consider to be too low. Identity theft is a problem today. It is often used by organised crime, for example, to exploit welfare systems and other things. Here we want to see a review to make such action more difficult or impossible. Of course, we again have proposals to tighten the penalties for violent crimes. It has been one of the pucks we have pushed hardest, both under the previous government and under this government. There are too many examples, and I usually mention here in the speaker's chair a few examples of incredibly low penalties being imposed for quite gross abuse of other people. In relation to other types of crime, such as economic crime, the scale of penalties must be adjusted to better live up to what people expect. The worst abuses are those committed against people. It's violent and sexual crimes. As I mentioned, we want to see a reduced and, in some cases, completely abolished penalty rebate. In some cases of violent crime, the principle of cumulation may apply, adding penalties to each other. If you want to keep a penalty discount, the additional penalty scale should be reformed and be longer. We also see problems with criminals who, under probation, commit crimes but do not return to the sentences from which they are conditionally released. We recently dealt with a proposal that is taking steps in the right direction here, but I do not think it will come to an end entirely. There are examples where people have been paroled after being convicted of murder and then have committed drug offences, violations of the knife law and such things but still not been allowed to return to their punishment. In one case, the released person raped a 13-year-old girl. We believe that this must be reviewed, so that the return to punishment is automatic, except in very small cases, when it is completely unreasonable. The report also addresses our proposal on organised crime, what we call participation in criminal organisations, which is inspired by the US RICO law, which means that participation in organised crime can be convicted. This will make it easier to access leading figures in organised crime. Of course, however, we should look carefully at this and also determine what definition of organised crime should be used. I believe that this is something that needs to be reviewed if we are to overcome organised crime and gangs that are emerging here in Sweden. In reservation 48, we address the problem of illegal immigrants. We believe that helping illegal immigrants to stay out of justice must be criminalised. That is not the case today, unless it is for profit. We believe that this is unreasonable. It is enough for it to be organised in order for it to be unreasonable. The fact is that illegal immigrants in Sweden are illegal – they do not have the right to be here – and when NGOs or other groups systematically help these criminals to reside illegally in our country, it needs to be addressed. That must be much clearer than it is today. There is already a law that means that it is illegal to protect a criminal. We do not see why we should be able to protect an illegal immigrant who actually violates Swedish law. These are some of the proposals we have in this report. I don't have time to comment on everyone in detail. We believe that a number of areas need to be tightened up. Most of you have already heard me talk about punitive measures, increased powers and whatever it may be. I believe that the recognition of the need for tightening up has grown. We have seen it in this government, for example, when it comes to terrorist travel and other things. Even the Alliance made sharpenings in some places, although it was a little too late and a little too little.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-65	Madam President, I would like There are many motions we are dealing with today when it comes to criminal matters. There will be even more in the next item, when we debate police matters. On the part of the government, we have two reservations and a specific opinion, which we naturally support on the part of the Green Party, but we will not ask for their approval for time to come. When one reads the various motions and especially the announcements and then the views of the government, it is interesting to note that the difference in opinions is not very great. On the other hand, we believe from the government side that it is important that things are prepared in order and that they take the time it takes. It has come about quite recently by the Riksdag decided proposals and laws that already need to be reviewed. Today we are dealing with an announcement of such a law. It is a good thing that we look over things quickly when needed, because politics should be humbled in the face of reality. When things don't work properly the way they were supposed to, you should review them. But it also means taking the time you need to prepare things carefully, perhaps reducing the need to review them later. We in the Green Party believe that it is very important not to be in a hurry in politics, although the public debate may want to be in a hurry. My colleague Krister Hammarbergh referred to systematic thefts and so on. What we're saying on S and MP's side is that preparation is ongoing. We are not questioning this; we are saying: we want to look at it here too. We want to do the right thing. And doing it right isn't always doing it fast. But it is always the task of the opposition to whip the government. It's the government's job to make sure it takes some time to get it right. We have these tasks and roles in this work. When we were sitting on the opposition bench earlier, we whipped the government's mind to do things faster than quickly. I have full respect for the division of roles. I shall also add to what my colleague, Mr Lawen, raised on another point which concerns me a little more than usual. It is a question of honour-related violence. When I was a municipal councillor in Södertälje, as I have mentioned several times in the House, I worked very much on this issue. I think it is incredibly important that we in Sweden are very clear here. These are issues that are serious and have nothing to do with ethnicity and religion but with cultures. These are cultures that are in no way acceptable. It must be very clear that in Sweden we put human rights before respect for cultural differences. Human rights, gender issues and all this is a fundamental part of our society. There must be no doubt about, for example, honour-related violence. There's been a little bit of a place. I read an Italian book the other day, My amazing friend, who is now very popular. It depicts Naples in the 1950s. It's about nothing but honor relations and violence. It's not far. It is not Protestant Christianity; it is Catholic Christianity. But these are cultures that are not acceptable in today's Sweden. We have to stand up for that. It must be very clear. Then we have to do this the right way. Once again, it comes to the conclusion that these are not simple things. The government is working on these issues. They're priorities. It is good that we in Sweden can have a united position against this as far as possible. But here too, as I said, it is very important that the preparation must take the time needed for it to land correctly. If we make mistakes, it can have quite severe consequences. As I said, these are not simple questions. Swedish society has been discussing this for many years. I am convinced that we will reach good conclusions. But you have to hurry slowly, as it's called. That is what our views on the government side are about. We want us to hurry slowly. Let's do it carefully. The laws that should be on Parliament's table should be well thought out. We will continue to do so.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-76	Madam President, I would like You could give this line the collective name: How long? I share the view that legislative work should be done carefully. It shouldn't be sloppy. Accuracy is a virtue. But is slowness a virtue? I wonder because a number of points have been made during the speech. It is sometimes possible to combine both a little higher speed and accuracy. That is our view. That is why I would like to ask Mats Pertoft about some of the points on which reservations are being made today. You argue so well to do what we have said should be done and what you object to. That is why I find it difficult to understand precisely this slowness. The first question is: what part of the government, you or the Social Democrats, is it that slows down this procedure? I wonder because it needs to be thought for a very long time. That's my first question. I would like to mention the penalty rebate, because it is a little bit a policy change in Parliament. If so, I am delighted if the Green Party is about to abandon its previous position. There is my question: does Mats Pertoft take a positive view of starting to review the penalty rebate in its current form?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-81	Madam President, I would like That question is being prepared. The government parties are working with it in the government. We're working together on this. It is a joint process between the government parties. We will be coming back to Parliament on this issue quite soon. But since I'm not the one who puts my signature under the end product, I can't say when this happens. I'm not setting any times. It is not the case that we differ or, for example, that the Green Party should present another opinion on the matter.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-83	Madam President, I would like It is a bit difficult when you are going to debate against a political party which, on an important issue, obviously does not have any kind of opinion. Mats Pertoft is a Member of Parliament and represents a party that sits in the government but refers its possible positions to the investigator. It's a little unusual, may I say. I then choose to make a positive interpretation. You're prepared to review the penalty discount. I look forward to the result that is coming, not least because we have an announcement today. I will take this opportunity to raise two more issues where it seems important that things go slowly. Everyone has pointed out what the national coordinator has said in terms of the importance of reviewing the legislation in a further investigation, particularly in relation to punishment and honour-related violence. Then the question is: why wait to investigate something that everyone thinks needs to be investigated? To sum it up, how difficult can it be? But let me ask you the question: how long do you need to think when you already think the same thing as us? For me, it's just weird. My next question is: is the normal two-year basis not sufficient to evaluate new legislation? Then I am thinking of the announcement of violations of peace and the punitive measures there. For how many years do you need a basis to investigate? Are you going away from the normal two years?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-88	Madam President, I would like When it comes to honor-related crimes, it's not an easy matter. Otherwise, I think we would have had legislation in place a long time ago, not least under the previous government. It is not that we differ greatly on this issue. A few months ago I took part in a panel debate in Parliament on this particular issue. Then, for example, was one of the big questions that no one could really answer: Is there a need for their own crime classification or not? It's not that easy to put your foot down. That is precisely the kind of discussion that we are having. There will be proposals, but they are not finished yet. I can't say any more. This does not mean that the government is not working on the issue. But we want it to be a solid piece of work that is put on Parliament's table.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-90	Madam President, I would like Since I took over as the Legal Spokesperson of the Center Party a little over a year and a half ago, it is mainly an issue that has come to take up a great deal of my attention. What people heard about from many parts of Centersverige and also the rest of Sweden gave consistent testimony about a phenomenon of travelling theft leagues that plagued the countryside in particular, where it was far to the police and where the leagues could therefore ravage quite freely. This was a phenomenon that we discovered also affected the cities. It was about systematic shoplifting where travelling theft leagues might go into a store and steal an expensive jacket, then go into the next store and steal a similar jacket to set up a whole range of sizes for resale – an elaborate, professional and professional criminal behavior. Maybe this isn't so serious, some might object. These everyday crimes are sometimes treated a little rigidly. You think that's what happens. And it does, but just because something is common doesn't mean we should ignore it. On the contrary, it is so much more important that we take hold of it and try to work on it. I believe, Madam President, that what caused such frustration in relation to this type of crime was that the victims of crime often felt that they had done everything right. They had come together in neighboring cooperation, watched together, and warned each other that something was going on. Mobile photos were taken and even car registration numbers were used. Yet, it was felt that little was happening. Nothing happened. The investigations were closed even before they were started because there were no reconnaissances, although one might think that was not the case. This was extremely frustrating. People felt a sense of rightlessness, that they did not get the help they needed from the rule of law. It is precisely the legal questions, this to get help when we need it and that the police come when we call it, is one of the most basic things that builds the safe and good society. If this does not work, confidence in the rule of law will be eroded, and when confidence in the rule of law is eroded, we are on the road to the development of society that none of us want to see. How, then, is this to be overcome? We in the Center Party started work to try to analyse the problem and look at what was missing in the law, where the gaps were. We must be aware, Madam President, that these are the proposed criminals who make a cress calculation: what profits can we expect from this crime? What are the risks associated with it? So it's about the risk of getting caught and the punishment you get if you get caught. Madam President, I would like I want to raise their risks! I want to make their calculations worse. These are crimes that, in my opinion, are going to give prison. Fines will not help this, for these are not rarely international leagues that are not domiciled in Sweden. They travel around and will still not pay these fines. It is important to increase the penalty value, and in order not to undermine the penalty value, it is also important to review at the same time the amount of rebate paid in practice to the person who commits many thefts at the same time. Then we came up with the concept of a systematic theft and exercised it. In his speech, Mats Pertoft of the Green Party pointed out that there are not so great differences in the committee in terms of politics. Maybe it's not. Maybe it's about degrees. But there is a big difference, and there is a difference in operationality. This report deals with a large number of ideas of all kinds. These are big and small ideas. These are good ideas, and they are perhaps less good ideas. These are things that are feasible, and there are things that are unrealistic. But above all, there are things that can be done if you do it together. We can try to inspire and tell you how to cooperate and get it together. In the shift between Krister Hammarbergh and Mats Pertoft, it became clear that it was a bit bumpy to get it together between the two government parties. But we are four parties, and it is perfectly possible to agree if you have a good structure. Perhaps our cooperation is more ingrained than that of the present government. Just come to us and ask how we do it and we'll tell you. Among the other proposals are some relating to the terrible crime of trafficking in human beings. There are several reservations. Of course, I support everyone, but I only support reservation 4. We also have a proposal for a child-relief crime aimed at bringing together, with the example of the crime of women-relief, the perhaps minor violations to which children are subjected but which together become a major violation. Something else that we have worked a lot with is illegal use of identity. However, I refrain from calling for that reservation because the government has now tabled a very welcome proposal. We'll look at it when it's going to be processed. I would like to highlight one more point, and that is the criminal protection of transgender persons, where we in the Alliance believe that transgender persons should also be included in the ban on incitement to ethnic groups. I'm in favour of reservation 47.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-104	Madam President, I would like When you take a line, you usually have comments on your opponent's speech. I just wanted to clarify a few points in the previous line-up and some of the points that came up here. Announcement is an institute we have at our disposal here in Parliament when we believe that a particular issue should be investigated more closely but that has not been mentioned before. It may also be that the government should make a proposal as soon as possible, i.e. the time aspect of it. This has been highlighted by both Krister Hammarbergh and Johan Hedin. In order to do this, it is emphasised that it takes a very long time, and I believe that the members of the government parties here in committee have in any case tried to say that there is work going on. These are not easy issues on which the opposition parties have highlighted and wish to make an announcement. These are issues that require lengthy preparation. These are issues that also involve a great deal of problematic handling, not least with regard to honour-related violence and repression. We believe that while we can take a closer look at our criminal code, that is not where we solve major structural challenges. There must be completely different factors – everything from preventive work on how we work together with the human rights organisations that we have in Sweden and who want to pursue an opinion on the issue. We believe that when it comes to criminal law, there must be an in-depth analysis of proportionality, how it should be handled and what it means in the evidence of the parties who may be going to bring their case to court and so on. Having said that, Madam President, I would just like to make it clear that this preparation should not be underestimated. It takes time, but of course it is our primary assessment that it is also going to criminal proceedings. It is not, however, where the main gunpowder in the work on justice-related issues exists.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-110	Madam President, I would like Perhaps Lawen Redar has misunderstood what we want with the announcement. It is therefore an announcement; it is not directly legislation. We absolutely want it to be prepared. We want it to be prepared properly and thoroughly, but it should be prepared at some point! We don't have time to wait! Tell that to all those people in the countryside! Imagine an older couple in their 70s. The light relay is running on the barn. They're calling the police. The police say they can't come because they're watching a dance restaurant. What does Lawen Redar say to them? We have to wait. But they can't wait any longer. People need this basic security. People must feel that the rule of law takes their concerns seriously. It is clear that things should be prepared, but it is funny that this particular government takes up the processing requirement as an excuse not to do this that increases basic security. I remember a piece of legislation that we rushed through just before Christmas. It was a preparation that lasted about 40 hours and where the referral time was 24 hours. It is a pleasure that this is coming up now, because it is also linked to yesterday's budget debate. The only security effort, the only investment on the police as the government does, is 250 million for the police to check the legg of those commuting across the Öresund. Is that reasonable? I don't think so. I think we should put the gunpowder on what creates real security for people out in the local community. That is where we have to put the gunpowder, and that is where we have to be operational – not doing other nonsense.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-116	Madam President, I would like I understand the point about preparation. Based on how society evolves, what we estimate is proportionality and what social situation you find yourself in, we have different views on the preparation requirement. Those who are opposition parties, I think, would have handled the matter in a similar way. We probably do not have very different views on the basis of which the measures relating to terrorism are being prepared. But when it comes to exactly the issue that Johan Hedin raised, I make the same assessment, that it takes a social organisation to be able to handle the situation of the people you describe, Johan Hedin. There is a need for a social organisation in the sense that if it is only criminal law that we are going to change in, I do not think we are going to get that far. There is also a need for a police organisation that is present, and there is also a need to manage how we can strengthen our efforts in certain areas. It is an entire organisation in society that must be able to deal with this, and I believe that goes far beyond criminal law. But on this issue, Johan Hedin and I may not share the view.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-119	Madam President, I would like It's almost embarrassing, because Lawen Redar is arguing for my cause. It is clear that the introduction of new criminal law provisions is not enough. It is not enough to increase the penalty for a crime that many suffer and that many suffer a great deal from – if nothing is done, unless there will be a tool for the police to work with. Again: It's 250 million to check legg on the Öresund commuter. In the Center Party's budget, we propose 2.4 billion over four years to strengthen the police, so that they can be 2 000 more, and individual skills enhancements within the police as well. We already announced an additional EUR 2 billion for this year, because we saw the need as escalating. That analysis has not changed; on the contrary, the need has been strengthened, so we have stepped up that effort to 2.4 billion. The police are on their knees. You're standing in the middle of a reorganisation that's the biggest since the 60's. In addition, you have imposed on them in the government the strange idea of checking IDs on the Öresund commuter, which takes an enormous amount of resources – 400 police officers every day from all over Sweden in the so-called Alma operation. It has gone so far that police officers are collected from all over Sweden, for example from Jämtland, where the police now cannot guarantee people's security and a few weeks ago told women to stay inside in the evenings. It's not a reasonable order! The police must be given the tools they need to work. This organisational change must be monitored very carefully, so that we can see that it really meets as it was supposed to, that it increases the police presence in the local community. It must be resourced and, in my view, it must also be a change of law that ensures the security of people in the local community.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-123	Madam President, I would like Buying someone else's body to have sex with it, to buy a woman for prostitution, is part of men's violence against women. Fortunately, it has been prohibited in Sweden since 1999, when we introduced the Sex Purchase Act. It has had many positive effects in Sweden. Attitude has changed a lot. It has also limited prostitution. It's a very good team. Yet one in twelve men buys six from a prostitute. 80% of these purchases are made abroad. If there is quite a consensus in Sweden on this law, it is not everywhere, Madam President. In the EU, the Left Party has been at the forefront for over 20 years in order to be able to get a change in other countries as well. It's a long struggle, a long feminist struggle. But sometimes it goes well. France changed its law about three weeks ago to the Swedish model of the Sex Purchase Act, and I and the Left Party welcome that. As the legislation stands today, you cannot be judged in Sweden if you go abroad and buy another person's body. In order for you to be judged for that in Sweden, it must be illegal in both countries. As I said earlier, the Swedish Sex Purchase Act is not everywhere. The Left Party wants to take a step further. We want to remove the requirement for double criminality. This means that if you go to another country to buy sex, you can be punished in Sweden. This exists today. There's a law that includes children. We have the principle of law on trafficking in human beings and child pornography. If you commit a terrible act in another country, you may be convicted here when you return to Sweden. I think it's time for the next step. We can't have the charter trip as a free zone to buy another person for sex. We need to go one step further. The change is needed. Sweden has always been at the forefront when it comes to gender equality. We know what needs to be done. Sweden's women's lobby and Roks support the Left Party on this issue, and I find that very positive. If there are any professionals in women's situations, that's them. Sweden is a successful exporting country. What I think we should mainly export are issues of gender equality, issues such as the Swedish Sex Purchase Act, because there we can make a real difference in people's lives. Madam President, I would like Everyone is worth protecting, both children and women. That is why the Left Party is proposing that we now go one step further. That is why I am in favour of reservation 14.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-132	Madam President, I would like It is very interesting to listen to the representatives of the Green Party, who say that there are already decisions, that it is in progress and that we agree. Yet, at least in a few places, they reserve, among other things, that we should review the legislation on honour-related crimes. Explain to me, Mats Pertoft, why you have reservations about that decision! There are, Madam President, a number of alliance reservations, including the inclusion of transgender people in the legislation on discrimination. But there we have no support from the Green Party, although we have always agreed in our view of transgender people. We could have had another announcement there. It goes without saying that we have slightly different views and perspectives, as colleagues have said. Madam President, I would like On 1 July 2013, the punishments for gross violation of peace and gross violation of women's rights were tightened. The committee believes that this penalty should be evaluated. If it turns out that the reform has not had the intended effect, the penalties should be further tightened. Liberals would have liked to go one step further. We have made a proposal which, unfortunately, has been rejected that a year's imprisonment should be a minimum sentence instead of nine months today. Nevertheless, the committee makes a request for a review, which we welcome. A large number of people live under threat from their relatives because of a so-called culture of honour, which is also a theme in the report. The committee believes that we should make a strong statement against this and also make an announcement here, as I mentioned at the outset. However, on one point under that heading, we would have liked to go further here too. Liberals have exercised that the law should be clarified and tightened up when it comes to punishment for honour-related crimes. We believe that the criminal code should include a rule whereby if one of the accused states that a motive for the crime has been to protect the honour of his or her loved ones based on the victim's lifestyle, one should always assess the criminal value of the offence as gross. We also want honour crimes to be introduced as a separate criminal offence. Madam President, I would like I also want to lift up our motion on so-called revenge porn. Revenge porn means that private images of sexual nature are spread entirely without the victim's consent, usually in order to blame, insult, ridicule and demean the person, who is usually a woman. The fact that women's sexuality is still seen as something shameful makes the judgment from the outside world even harder. Because we live in an increasingly digitized world, the spread is much greater. In just a few minutes, an image or movie click can reach thousands of people who, in turn, spread the image that becomes impossible to control. It is already illegal to distribute private pictures and films, but it is today a copyright crime. This does not capture the problem of revenge porn. If the victim is lucky, she can get compensation for the violation. But we have seen that this compensation is usually extremely low. The Council's interview with prosecutors confirms what we have previously highlighted from the Liberals, namely that the dissemination of naked images today does not fit within the existing legal framework, that is to say criminalisation, which we find worrying and unacceptable. The problem today is that there is no clear-cut legislation. Revenge porn falls under many different laws, making it difficult for the victim to get redress. It is about privacy and about the right to choose for yourself with whom, how and when someone should see you in a sexual situation or not. Sweden should therefore tighten up the legislation so that both courts and perpetrators receive a clearer signal that this is a very serious crime. Liberals have exercised that revenge porn should be considered a sexual crime in the law. The committee rejects our motion, which is why I would particularly like to support our reservation 18. An adjacent issue concerns violations on the Internet, where the Alliance has a joint reservation – reservation 5 – which I would also like to support.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-146	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has just asked me from the speaker's seat about the joint S, V and MP reservation on honour-related crimes. Since Roger Haddad seems to have misunderstood the reservation, I will simply read it out. The National Coordinator, tasked with creating a force-gathering to combat violence in close relations, has submitted the report Violence in close relations – a public health issue... The Coordinator considers that it is necessary to investigate further whether honor-related motives for a crime should constitute an aggravating circumstance of the penalty according to Chapter 29. Section 2 of the Criminal Code. The question of conspiracy to commit a crime is also mentioned by the coordinator in this context. The report is being prepared in the Government Office. We want to express our understanding of the views that honour-related crime should be assessed as serious. However, we are not prepared to support the proposal for a revision of the legislation relating to honour-related crimes, but rather for the preparation of the report on violence in close relations to be postponed. An announcement to the government should therefore not be made. ..................................................... As far as I am concerned, we do not disagree on the matter. However, as I did on a number of occasions in my speech, we think it is very important for this work to be done carefully – nothing else. I say this so that Roger Haddad understands what this reservation is really about.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-149	Mr President, I would like to I know that Mats Pertoft is a teacher at the bottom, and this was very educational. I have read the reservation, and I do not ask Mats Pertoft in his capacity as a teacher, investigator or minister in the government, but in his capacity as a member of the environmental partisan parliament. What do you think, Mats Pertoft, about a review of the law on honor-related crimes? That is what we are making an announcement about. Then there is a motion from the Liberals which, unfortunately, you have rejected, namely that we want to have the crime-subscribed hate crime. According to this one should be able to be sentenced to a higher penalty. You said in your post that you want to investigate further if this is needed. But what do you think? That's the question. Do you think that legislation should be tightened up? Do you think it's a good idea to introduce honorary crime? Mr President, I would like to It is clear that none of the prosecutions relating to this policy area and this problem have led to a serious tightening of penalties. I know that the Minister has said that it is prepared to review this. But now I want to know what Mats Pertoft thinks.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-153	Mr President, I would like to I, the Green Party and the government believe that this is a very serious crime. We must find the legal provisions that will allow us to get to grips with this so that it will be easier to prosecute, frame and punish those who have committed honour-related crimes. What we have learned, however, during the time that we have worked on these issues in Sweden is that it is not simply to know what are the best tools. That is what the question is about, that is to find these tools. I mentioned earlier that not long ago we had a debate on this issue in the Second Chamber, I think. All parties then said that this is an issue where you cannot really put your foot down when it comes to how this should be done. Everyone agrees that this must be prosecuted, that we must become sharper and that we must find the tools. But we don't know exactly what tools they are. We cannot now put forward anything that, after a year, will not work. That is what we are now experiencing with a number of laws, which means that we must now review them. That's not good.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-157	Mr President, I would like to I was in this context, and I can guarantee that I was crystal clear. Liberals want to see a new crime rubrication – honor crimes – so that it becomes a penalty if the motive is honor. This can be seen on SVT Forum's recording. There are two parts to this report. We have made an announcement that the government should review this legislation without further concreteisations. But you are even against a revision of the legislation. That is what you have reserved for. It is this motion in the report that we have written an announcement about, and that is what it is about. Then, from the Liberals, we have said that there should also be a penalty and a separate criminal classification for this. What I reacted to was that Mats Pertoft said that it would like to investigate further whether, in the case of honour crimes, there should be a clearer sanction. But you still have to decide politically. Is this where we want to go? Several of you from the Red-Green forces have said that something is wrong and that it is not enough. But what do you want to do? Unfortunately, I am not getting an answer today.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-161	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that we have three announcements in this report in the field of criminal law. This has been mentioned earlier in the debate. It is about evaluating the penalty for violations of peace and reviewing legislation related to honour-related crimes. Furthermore, the government is now tasked with reviewing the so-called penalty rebate and introducing a new criminal classification that aims at the systematic thefts. Mr President, I would like to The problems of organised gangs who commit systematic crime throughout the country, and perhaps especially in rural areas, must be taken more seriously. The police have told us about organized theft gangs – there are also reports of this from the police – who work very systematically. They come with the most pre-programmed GPS. A policeman told me that they have something similar to a shopping list. They go to pre-defined addresses and pick what they're supposed to have. Among other things, Nescafé and other viable international brands are the focus of the organized theft leagues. It may not be believed that the value of the stolen goods in these organized thefts of Nescafé bags, as I mentioned, is so great, but the value is estimated at a total of very large amounts. The review of the penalty rebate and the new criminal classification, the Christian Democrats believe, is an important step. We also think that there is a need for a change in the offence of shoplifting and petty theft. It is urgent because it better marks the seriousness of crime. The property protection investigation also proposed in 2013 that the criminal In my opinion, the rule of shoplifting does not cover the whole of the crime that is actually covered. The Christian Democrats have in the report several own proposals and a lot of proposals that are common to the Alliance. One of the joint proposals is that the Internet has become a place of hatred, threats and violations. Pictures, films and other information that can be shared quickly get a huge spread and then remain for a long time. Bullying can get into the home via computers and phones. There are statistics showing that one in three young people has been exposed to violations on the internet and in social media – one in three young people, and this at the same time as mental illness among young people is increasing. This must be an alarm signal for Members of Parliament. According to a report from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council last year, the most common type of online violation reported by girls is that images have been published on the internet. In the case of boys, they usually report having received death threats or threats of violence with weapons. We believe that the ongoing review of, among other things, the criminal protection of individuals' privacy, launched by the Alliance Government, must lead to a new legislation that better covers threats and violations that occur on the Internet. It is important and self-evident that these threats are handled, investigated and prosecuted in the same way as other threats. Mr President, I would like to The Sexual Crimes Committee is working on a review of the rape crime. The Christian Democrats believe that it is important to modernise legislation and to put it in place as soon as possible. These are issues of particular criminal liability for negligent offences, legislation based on consent and voluntary action, and the introduction of a special penalty for particularly serious rape. These questions cannot wait, but should be prepared as a matter of urgency if that is what the investigation concludes. One issue that has been raised during the debate is that of honour-related crime. It is a crime against someone or some, often a relative, where the offender perceives that the person is at risk of dishonoring or has dishonored the honour of the offender, family or group. The purpose of crime is to prevent the damage or loss of honour, or to restore or repair the lost or damaged honour. Many people have been on this issue, and I agree with much of what has been said. I think it is an important step that Parliament is taking today, where there will be an announcement to review this type of crime. We in the Christian Democrats want this type of crime, which we strongly reject, to be regulated separately in the criminal code. In this way, we would have a clearer picture of the size of the problem and then be able to put in place the necessary measures. Special legislation on honour crimes would also better emphasise the seriousness of this type of crime. As I said, Mr President, this is an important first step with the announcement of a review of the legislation, and of course I support it. I also support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the Alliance contained in the report, but in favour of winning time on the vote, I only call for reservation 5.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-172	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to congratulate Parliament, Sweden, the Swedes and all the people who live here on the committee's three announcements in the report. Good! Congratulations to us! That's the end of kindness. So far, the Riksdag has stated that the provisions of the Code on child pornography offences are well balanced, and after that my motion requests for clarification of the law have been rejected over the years. In the report we are now debating, the committee repeats that the law is balanced, and some announcement to the government to review the rules is not necessary, according to the committee. What I have repeatedly wanted to draw Parliament's attention to is the change of law that came about in the 1990s to protect children from the fact that photos and films of disgusting sexual assaults on their small bodies are held and disseminated. This penalty is blurred and, in some respects, criminalisation is too extensive. As a result, the case law is unclear – and that in a legal area where I think we all in here want nothing more than to be crystal clear. However, the law is not clear – far from it. A recent example is that last summer, 2015, Södertälje District Court handed down a judgment in one of the most extensive cases of child pornography that have occurred in our country. The case involved possession of over 1 million images and films, which in a large number of cases show how children are subjected to gross sexual abuse. The perp was sentenced to six years in prison. The defendant was convicted on several counts but exonerated in others, in a seemingly random way. A number of the man's paintings and photographs of exposed children were found to have been in original at the Moderna Museet and hung at the Fotografiska museum. These paintings and photos were considered artistically valuable by the District Court, and were therefore not labeled as child pornography. According to the District Court, paintings and photos of other named artists had not been produced for predominantly artistic purposes and were therefore child pornography. Porcelain dolls held by the accused constituted, according to the district court, child pornography, but he was not convicted on this point because the dolls were not covered by the prosecutor's description of the offence. Other dolls were not considered child pornography, but photographs taken on the dolls were considered child pornography because of the camera's focus. The cover of a record was considered to be child pornography, but in this case the district court freed the offender because the possession of the record cover was considered justifiable in the sense of the law. The court assumed that the defendant had had the record for the music. In this context, the Sundsvall District Court concluded earlier in 2015 that the same album cover was not child pornography in the first place. A fundamental flaw in our child pornography legislation is that it lacks a definition of pornography. As the Södertälje case shows, this gives room for different perceptions of what is or is not pornography and what is or is not child pornography. This ambiguity, as has been said, makes for divergent practices and creates legal uncertainty. It also forces police, prosecutors, and courts to spend time and effort investigating the possession of cartoon figurines, porcelain dolls, record covers, and the like, rather than concentrating their resources on clearing up the abuse committed on children of flesh and blood. Mr President, I would like to The legal situation in this area therefore needs to be clarified so as to draw a more clear line between criminal and non-criminal treatment of pornography and ultimately, in this case, child pornography. No one, least of all the affected children, benefits from drawing fantasy figures, porcelain dolls and album covers being equated with possession of photos and films depicting sexual abuse on real children.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-180	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating police issues, much on the basis of the individual motions submitted last autumn. I will begin by saying something about the situation in the Police Authority in connection with the current reorganisation. We were a united parliament that was behind implementing the police reform, which was about merging 21 authorities into one. We knew that it would not be a reorganisation that would flow easily from the start. It's not that big a reorganisation. We were well aware that it will take a few years before we can see the results that we expect. Right now we travel members of Parliament on the Committee of Justice around the country and meet all the police regions to hear how they are doing in their country. We have also met the trade union representatives of the relevant unions within the Police Authority. And I take the liberty of speaking on behalf of the whole committee when I say that we are pleased with the views we have received and those we have met who have given of their time and, of course, all the valuable input we have received. All of us members of the committee regularly have different contacts with the Police Authority and the people who work there. Why do I say that? Because when we politicians talk, people wonder what we really know, not only about this issue but also about other issues. We don't know everything – nobody does – but we still know quite a bit. And we use the tools that we have: formal and informal conversations, study visits, asking questions on transparency advice if you are lucky to sit in one, follow the news, of course, and also on social media. For example, I follow a lot of employees in the Swedish Police Authority on Twitter. I would also like to express my special thanks to the police officers Maria and Stefan in Söderhamn who took me on a ten-hour pass at the beginning of February. They and other police officers I have been privileged to ride around with impress me very much, especially on the basis of how patiently and correctly they treat people. When I got off my passport at 3:00 in the morning, they were working on overtime. The reorganisation is experienced very differently depending on where in the country you are. In some places it is stable, and you feel that the given frames fit. In other places there are still many question marks, and one feels that one's own operations are shaking against the organizational model. It has been difficult with the appointment of people to new posts and an uncertainty about what all employees should actually end up somewhere, and in some places it is still not finished. In addition, there is a situation with a large number of people who have come to Sweden as refugees. We have increased surveillance at the borders and at asylum homes where security needs to be strengthened. That, of course, requires resources. Sweden, like the rest of Europe, has to deal with the terrorist threat with everything it brings. Moreover, all this coincides, as if it were not enough, with a tough wage movement. It is a turbulent and difficult time for the police, more turbulent than anyone wants or has been able to predict. I would like to quote Minister Ygeman in an interview in Dagens Nyheter a week ago: I believe that the reorganisation is the right way forward and I believe it will free up more resources. But the goal is not a reorganisation. The goal is to increase security, reduce crime and a little more people who are locked up and boomed by those who commit crimes. If we do not achieve that, we will of course adjust it. And it's important for all of us to have with us that if we don't reach the target, we have to adjust. The organisation currently has a number of national departments dealing with tasks, and we see that they have come at different stages and are perceived as different. It is a department that has received a lot of praise. For example, police officers have now finally received so-called smart phones that enable them to handle matters digitally. It's all going a lot faster than before. For example, they can make themselves beatings and do not have to call in and ask someone else to do so. It is quite obvious that it facilitates the work. Of course, it is at hand to consider why the police do not have the best technology, but now the organization seems to be more on the track after a time of, to say the least, less successful digital initiatives. Other departments, such as HR, seem to leave some other things to be desired. Many of the police workers find it difficult to find answers to questions or, if they receive answers, that the answers are illogical. As politicians, it is worrying if this is the case. Of course, the expectation is that the management will steer this up and should have done so a long time ago. The most important resource of the police authority is the employees, all the police, but also the civilian employees. The work situation is tough, sometimes dangerous, and not infrequently on awkward working hours. It's kind of in the nature of things. To then experience that the employer does not see the work you are doing is a situation that I understand is extremely difficult for the person affected. This is today's situation in parts of the police department. We see that the proportion of police officers who choose to terminate their employment to move on to another employer is increasing. It is still at a low level compared to other jobs within the state. But in a situation where we need to maintain the number of police officers, perhaps also increase the number of police officers, and care for experience and knowledge, police management needs to get a better working climate everywhere in the organisation. There is an expression, Mr President, which I always dislike when it is used: 中 Often the expression is used in health care, care and school. What you mean is you need more employees. Now I've also seen it used in the police. I think that's a really bad expression. Neither police nor school needs more hands and feet. It sounds like something completely mechanical, and that's not what we need. We need people with a brain. It's the brains that do the job. Police work requires a great deal of the person to do it. You should be able to act in the moment, make difficult considerations, respond to people correctly, and what is correct depends entirely on who you meet. Police work is not done by mechanical hands and feet, but by good people, and we must protect them. I will say something about the reservation that we have with the Left Party and the Green Party. Today, we will receive an announcement to resume the Alliance's investigation into renouncing the police's duties from 2014. I'd like to call it kicking in an open door a little bit. On the basis of the report that takes this as its starting point, Focusing on core tasks – an urgent adaptation of the role of the Political Authority in the field of animals is currently developing a Council of Law referral. It is therefore a question of removing a lot of animal matters from the police. The Department also prepares the report on the Transport of Detainees, which calls for the Prison Service to be given a clearer responsibility for the transport of deprived persons, which naturally relieves the police. On the basis of another report, entitled Better interventions in addiction and addiction, a project is now under way looking at the issue of people who abuse should not be in prison. It's great for those it touches but also good for the police. In addition, in June last year, an investigator was commissioned to conduct a study on the police's handling of reports, for example, to identify the extent to which the current system is used to document criminal reports that are not really a crime. I mentioned earlier an interview with Ygeman. There he gave the following example: Two eagles who have been reported to the police for various crimes, a report of an ugly Christmas sweater and a report of a heavy shower jet. While it is clear that when such things happen, it is not something that the police should have to spend any time on. I shall conclude by briefly saying something about the draft budget presented by the Government and the Left Party yesterday. Johan Hedin was not quite sure of the figures he referred to in the debate here before. What is in our proposal is SEK 283 million for the police this year, also SEK 10 million for the security police, but also SEK 150 million for the Migration Agency to be able to have increased coverage of asylum accommodations. In this autumn's budget, we will come back with the investments we are making for next year. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we are in favour of our reservation, although we will not be in favour of it.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-207	Mr President, I would like to The police are under very heavy pressure today. There is a lot of work, not least, which has been described by the previous speaker, on the basis of the migratory flows we have seen and the consequences of these. There are many times long distances to different types of refugee housing. At the same time, regular operations shall be maintained. I am rather disappointed when I see the levels of ambition, not least in yesterday's spring bill. There are shards in the situation. I think the resources are too small. The police are facing major challenges while at the same time implementing the largest reorganisation in the history of the state since the mid-60s. This, of course, imposes heavy pressure on the organization. Within the internal organization, uncertainty is felt in its own position, as is common in the case of reorganisations. At the same time, there is strong external pressure. In addition, there have already been criticisms of the police about low crime resolution, and demands that the police start delivering more. It is easy to see that this organisation needs more resources but also that it sometimes needs to use its resources in a more resourceful way. The Alliance has carefully stressed that the police should have what they need. That was the background to the minimum requirement that came quite a few years ago for at least 20 000 police officers. This ambition was one of the first things that the current government wanted to remove, which the Riksdag has now said was wrong and should be corrected. We realized last year that the goal we had set ourselves was overplayed. Since Sweden's population has grown so much, at least 1 000 new police officers are needed if we are to maintain previous police density. This level of ambition was clearly set out in our previous budget motion. But there is probably reason for us to see if we do not need to raise this ambition significantly. Time has passed by both the situation we are facing and the growing population. What are the government's ambitions? Unfortunately, they don't seem to be very high. These are the most closed investigations, and I'll come back to them. The only ambition seems to be to make police training an academic education. It seems to be the solution to everything. We think this is the wrong way to go. We believe that Swedish police officers are skilled and well educated. However, there are shortcomings in how to move forward in the career and in the system to take care of new police officers. But we have to solve that within the system. Making the education academic will not solve anything. A reorganisation of this kind requires clear leadership. I'm sure there's some flaws here. Clear leadership from the central police leadership is required, but clear leadership from the government is also required. The regulatory letters, i.e. the instructions given by the government to the agency, have become more watered down and empty in recent years. It does not indicate clear leadership, but rather an election-handed leadership. You react with a press release when something has happened. But it also usually stops at a press release. Nothing else is happening. This is the background to the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is travelling to the various police regions. It is urgent that we ensure that what was meant to be becomes also: a more locally present police officer. People should feel safe and know that the police are there when they need it. At the same time, we must create an ability to sharpen the police when crime affects local areas. Today we are receiving some worrying reports that the police are not able to cope with their basic tasks and are having difficulty with them. This means that we need to think about the resources. We must also be able to make greater demands on the leadership of both the government and the national police leadership. When Parliament sees the consequences of this and sees that the police have a number of tasks that take a lot of resources and a lot of time but do not have to do with the basic police tasks and want to continue to review this so that the police can devote themselves to what it is supposed to do, it is strangely enough totally unwilling. One of the first things the government did was to remove the target of 20,000 police officers. Then the investigation to relieve the police was closed. Much more than it has not been done. Parliament thinks it's time to set up the investigation again. It had time for one point: to review who is responsible for animals in certain specific situations. This is something to be reserved for. It is considered so serious that the Riksdag makes this decision. How do you justify it? Because it's breaking an open door because there's so much work going on. But the only job that has been done is to close the investigation. Surely you must be able to achieve a little more. It's time to relieve the police. Think of the long driving distances. Think of those rural policemen who often have to drive up to 300 miles [900 km] of one road and then back to do a transport that is basically not a police task. As I said before the investigation was closed, the handling of animals was done. I know what the reaction will be. No one else wants to take on these tasks, and one will scream in the sky and think that the police should continue to do this. But we have to decide whether we want a functioning police officer or not, and then the rest of the Swedish Government will have to accept it and adapt to it. The police must be crime prevention and investigation. For Gud's sake, let us try to fart away the rest, even if the police are always, of course, the ultimate resource of society. There are other announcements. The Alliance has taken an initiative to correct itself from the reign. We made it easier for the police to search vehicles to search for illegal weapons and not have to wait for a search warrant from a prosecutor. We have now realised that this should also apply to boats. We lifted it up last year, but then the whole Parliament did not want to listen to us. That is why we are lifting it up again, and now we have support for this. That is good; we thank you for that. It's about facilitating the police's work. We are also going into something that annoys many today, namely the handling of weapons. It must probably be regarded as a serious failure by the national police. Today's arms management system is to exasperate many law - abiding people. We've discussed weapons a lot. We think that we should be tough on the strict and strict rules on illegal weapons. However, we see no reason to focus mainly on those who have legal weapons. That is why we are once again making an announcement about shorter processing times; we have had it in the past. Normally we do not make two announcements in a row, but there is a reason: Nothing happens. The consequence is that we have different processing times across the country. In addition, we have different rules and regulations across the country. That is not acceptable, and there is reason to point that out. I am surprised that the central police are not getting any further, but it is primarily the government's responsibility to ensure that there is some momentum. But in this case, the Justice Department seems to be quite tone-deaf. I would like to express my support for reservation No 2. As far as legal weapons are concerned, three parties want to move forward. The Moderates, the Center and the Christian Democrats want to review the legislation, but we do not have the majority for it. I therefore look forward to the next parliamentary year and that we should then be able to make an announcement to further facilitate the legal handling of weapons – the one that is not a problem and is not related to crime.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-233	Mr President, I would like to I will comment on and ask about a few things that Krister Hammarbergh mentioned in his speech. Let me start where Krister Hammarbergh left off, with weapons licenses, police handling, errand time and so on. We agree with the Moderates that it is a major problem, and we are also concerned that it seems difficult to move forward. But to say that nothing is being done is like saying that the problem is being ignored, and I think that Krister Hammarbergh knows that there is work going on in the police. I just want to say that no one thinks it has been left to chance, and we hope, of course, that this work will result in something very soon. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that it is true that legal weapons are rarely involved in serious crime. But it is not that it never happens, but it occurs. I would also like to say something about what Krister Hammarbergh said about the current government having formulated an unclear regulatory letter. I would say, rather, that we do not have a need to regulate the police in detail. It's one way to get away from the very criticized so-called stick hunt when it comes to different things. It is about trusting that the police know how to use their resources and also have faith in the so-called citizens' proposals to break through. I find it sad that, following my speech, Krister Hammarbergh claims that the current government would be totally unwilling to do anything when it comes to renouncing the police's duties, when I clearly went through various things relating to animal management, transport, people with substance abuse problems and reporting. It is a bit too strong to say that nothing is being done.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-239	Mr President, I would like to I think that both Elin Lundgren and I have been to the same talk when it comes to arms handling but that we interpret the results differently. We have not seen any proposals for solutions. What we have been given are explanations of why the situation is as it is, but that is not a solution. We have seen today that there are proposals for new instructions regarding the general shooting movement and snipers, proposals which in principle only increase bureaucracy and conflict with the voluntary shooting organisations, many of which are associated with the total defence. That's not a good way to go. I haven't seen a solution. If Elin Lundgren sees something positive in it, she can do it, but I see the need for us to be clear from the Riksdag so that the police take their responsibility and ensure that we get this right. You have to be able to show leadership and be clear without having a stick hunt. It is about having instructions and not having a passive government. If you feel that an organisation is heading in the wrong direction, you must take a political responsibility, and if the government does not take that responsibility, the parliament will. Finally, when it comes to nothing being done to streamline the police's tasks: What you are doing now, Elin Lundgren, is looking at animal management, that is, what the investigation had time to do before you closed it. It is clear that you have to deal with it – the report has already been written. And you are looking at transport on the basis of a report in which the Alliance Government has previously assigned a mission. You haven't done anything else, have you?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-244	Mr President, I would like to I will not repeat what I said in my previous speech on this issue. You can find out if you didn't listen properly. Instead, I now choose to go on to ask Krister Hammarbergh about police training. At the moment, the investigation is under way A changed police education, which aims to make police training a higher education course, which, for example, our neighbouring countries have had for a long time and which is absolutely requested by the Police Federation. Today, police education is largely linked to different universities in Sweden, which I believe everyone involved sees as very positive. Speaking of time running away and so on, one might say that it has done so on this issue as well. We should have had this higher education in place a while ago. What is also linked to this is the need to have a more structured police research to develop methods that work better to solve the crimes that we have a common interest in solving. I find it sad and remarkable that the Moderates and the Alliance do not see the need for an even better police training than we have today. Krister Hammarbergh made an affair of how much resources you choose to provide to the police during this year. Nevertheless, I did not hear a word about how much the Moderates have planned to spend on the police. That's a question I have.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-249	Mr President, I would like to It is quite obvious that we should be able to invest resources in police research. I would argue that there have been very large resources that could have been used for this. On the other hand, a large part of the resources have been used to ensure that the police have run their own projects. As we went through the former police organization, we saw that a total of 800 projects were run in the country. What the price tag on this can be is difficult to know, as well as how many people have been involved, but one can probably expect that 5 000 – 10 000 people have participated in the projects every year. If you control some of the resources for police research, we will get a lot of research for the money, perhaps more qualified than the projects that have been run. Making the connection that every police officer must have a graduate education becomes quite violent. That's how the antive race, i.e. that v i should have an academic education because all police officers should have a basic postgraduate education. I don't believe it.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-252	Mr President, I would like to I was not fully prepared that so much focus in the report would be on the spring amending budget, but I can take this opportunity to explain a little about how the Swedish Democrats have reasoned over time in relation to the judiciary and the Police Authority. The government has now allocated 280 million more to the police because of the strained situation that has recently arisen. But this is a need that the Swedish Democrats have seen for a long time. We have also warned that there will be more costs for the various public authorities if there is a strong migration to Sweden. Of course, it is a little flattering that we are now getting right on that front, but we still think that the government is investing far too little. The Swedish democrats praised 840 million more than the government, and now 280 million have been allocated. As far as the number of police officers is concerned, it has been a discussed issue. We know from the visits that other Members have made earlier in the debate that what is said is that there are too few police officers to carry out the tasks they have been assigned. It is clear that the 280 million is a good addition, but it does not provide long-term guarantees that the police authorities will be able to greatly increase the number of police graduates in our country. We see that the Swedish Democrats, on the other hand, have proposed that we train 7 000 new police officers until 2022. The closest comparable effort from the other parties is made by the Moderates, who have proposed 1 000 new police officers, if I remember correctly. There, too, the Swedish Democrats are well ahead of time and are proposing a substantial increase in the number of police officers, and we are particularly distinguished in the Riksdag through this initiative. We have also proposed that the number of police officers in a country should not consist solely of police officers, i.e. the objective of 20 000 police officers that the Swedish Democrats helped to save when the government wanted to remove it. We think that the number of police officers should be related to the number of citizens, which is actually a quite logical approach to how many police officers you have in a country. We have proposed that there should be 250 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. I would also like to address the factual reservations. Of course we have a lot of them. What I want to talk about initially is the foreign begging, which has been given a slightly more obscure role in the public debate. Terror threats, mass immigration and not least the hard-pressed police have received a little too much attention, one might think, because the begging problem is still there. Not least the police are experiencing a workload because the begging is so widespread in our country. The foreign begging also brings illegal settlements, conflicts about begging places, the exploitation of people and other new situations that often call for police attention. Foreign begging has become widespread in our country for a long time. I believe that, within the framework of existing legislation on begging, we will have to get used to the situation we are seeing today. For this reason, new legislation is needed, and the Swedish Democrats have proposed that we ban the foreign begging in our country. Around the country the police carry out evictions in illegal settlements where foreign beggars have chosen to settle. Not infrequently does the land barely have time to be cleaned up until the same people have established a new illegal settlement. It is clear that, as politically responsible year after year, one can keep crawling like the cat around the heat with measures and reasoning that make no difference in reality. We agree with those who have proposed criminalising organised begging. We want to criminalise behaviour in which people exploit other people – what is called organised begging in the debate. It is clear that other EU countries must take care of their own citizens. But as long as you can make money and make a living by begging on our streets, people will continue to be exploited, and other EU countries will not have to face the consequences of not taking responsibility for their own citizens. If you try to give the impression that you want to get rid of the foreign begging by pushing the issue of criminalising organised begging, you are a little dishonest. The only proposal that makes a real difference is to ban foreign begging. We were with the committee in Holland six months ago. When we were on a city hike with the police in The Hague, I asked how they had handled the foreign begging. For there were no beggars there, as you may have seen while we were walking on the streets. It turned out that when there were too many beggars, the city dwellers and business owners in The Hague had felt that it was becoming disturbing and a negative element in the cityscape. A begging ban was then imposed, as has been done in other cities in Holland, and in about a week the widespread foreign begging had ceased. There was no problem, said the police, who himself was very pleased that the mayor and the city council took hold of the issue. Holland is not the only country in Europe where various forms of begging ban have been introduced. France, Italy, Poland, Romania, Hungary, Greece, the UK, Denmark, Ireland, Norway are other, and in Finland the government is working on the issue of a begging ban. Although the different countries apply begging bans in a slightly different way and have different orientations on which form of begging should be prohibited, one can only conclude that it has been tried and that it works. Critics of the begging ban say that poverty cannot be criminalized, which completely misses the target. It is not poverty that should be banned; it is the opportunity for foreign citizens to reside in our country by begging in our streets. It is this possibility that should be banned. Other critics say that it only moves the problem of poverty by banning foreign begging. That is quite right, and that is also part of the very purpose: we must ensure that begging EU citizens move back to their home countries. The Government, through its investigation into vulnerable EU citizens, has also found that the best help is the help available through professional relief organisations. For this reason too, a national begging ban is needed for foreign citizens. The best and long-term sustainable aid is given in place, but as long as it is possible to make a living in the short term through begging on our streets, Swedish aid or voluntary goodwill will not be more effective in the form of on-site assistance, at least not in a satisfactory way. If only the municipalities are left to choose to apply a ban on begging in the Charter of Order, the begging will only move to those municipalities that do not choose to apply such an option. For this reason too, a national begging ban is needed for foreign citizens. The proposal for a ban on the begging of foreign citizens will only be supported by the Swedish Democrats here, despite the fact that the situation on our streets for several years, and indeed the government's investigation into vulnerable EU citizens, bears witness to the need for a ban. When it comes to private landowners' opportunities to evict EU migrants who illegally reside on their land, the Swedish Democrats want it to be easier for landowners to evict. On several occasions, we have seen mediatedly high-profile cases where landowners today are perceived as completely unjustifiable. First, the bailiff must be contacted to apply for special handshake, but in order for the bailiff to evict, the landowner is forced to document the residents. In addition, the landowner must identify the residents. In order to do so, the landowner must ask the police for help with identification, which usually takes a long time. The cases are also linked to costs that are not often placed on the landowner. In addition, in such a case, the defendants shall be given the opportunity to submit their observations and the opportunity to appeal. If an eviction eventually succeeds, it is not seldom the case that the same process must be repeated when a new settlement arises, sometimes just near the first. We believe that this is far too bureaucratic and that the bailiff should not have anything to do with these issues. We believe that there should be no so-called right of possession in these cases and that the police should be able to remove residents in illegal settlements at any time without any specific requirement for identification or documentation. We are well aware that the government has paid attention to this very problematic situation, which now often arises, and that an investigator will present measures by the end of May. However, for the sake of clarity, we would like to anticipate the investigator's task of supporting our reservation to simplify eviction. We see a concrete problem and we propose quite concrete ways in which a simplified procedure can be carried out. We do not feel that we need to wait further for the government to investigate this and possibly come up with solutions to the problem. There's no guarantee. As the report shows last year, we have contributed to a declaration to review the regulatory framework for the management of arms licences in order to facilitate hunters. There is currently an assignment to present different facts and the impact of processing times on factors. The mission will also ensure that the work on the handling of weapons permits is carried out uniformly within the police authority, and we are of course looking forward to the final report at the beginning of next year. A digital application procedure for licences was also part of last year's announcement. Although the government believes that it has created the conditions for such a thing, the government deserves a further announcement from the Riksdag on these issues to show that we are serious and that we are calling for a little more action. Mr President, I would like to There are still major shortcomings in the police's handling of licence trials and processing times. Perhaps the police's mission can be refined in a way that allows these matters to be dealt with by a completely different authority. This could be a proposal that results from the investigation of the purer operation of the police. We look forward to the government now taking on the mission. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats support all the announcements presented in the report and, of course, all the reservations expressed by our party. We also have a special opinion stating that we are abstaining from asking for our reservation on shorter processing times in arms licensing cases, in order instead to contribute to a declaration in which the content is essentially the same. In ordinary order, the Swedish Democrats contribute to action through announcements, not least on issues that simplify legal ownership of arms. We are also proposing concrete measures which are tried and tested and which are known to have an effect in this report, not least against foreign begging. However, for time winning in the vote, I only ask for the reservation to ban begging and to simplify the right of municipalities to evict.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-280	It is now time for Question Time. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to extend a warm welcome to the four ministers of employment, Ylva Johansson, Minister of State Anders Ygeman, Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and Minister of State Ardalan Shekarabi. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-282	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Ygeman a question. The number of thefts and b urban offences is increasing. This is shown in the statistics of the Swedish Crime Prevention Council. Last year, about 50,400 store thefts were reported. This is an increase of 3 per cent from the previous year. At the same time, I know that many stores do not report crimes because the administration takes a lot of time and the police often urge them not to even report because they write off cases directly. Last year, some 22,800 home invasions were reported. This is an increase of 2 per cent from the previous year. Yesterday, the government presented the spring bill and spends money there to deal with terror and refugee reception.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-287	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Beatrice Ask, for the question! Of course, it is serious that we see signs of this type of increase in everyday crime. We intend to make a major effort to prevent crime. We will also appoint a national crime coordinator and invest significant financial resources in the prevention of crime, which unfortunately may not have been so prominent in recent years. Then we are talking about more police officers closer to the citizens and that the police reorganisation that all parties in the Swedish Parliament have agreed on also delivers results in reality. So far, far too few police officers have come closer to the citizens. Despite the fact that we have more police officers than we have in 40 years and spend more money on the police than ever before, citizens do not notice the positive results that were promised.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-289	Mr President, I would like to The head of the National Police has shared that he estimates that the results of the investigation will be worse. If you are going to do preventive work, the investigations will not go any better. We have to do both. It is imperative that crimes be cleared up. There are thefts and there are housing offences, and it is important, I believe, that the government puts pressure on the police organization to work on these core tasks concerning ordinary citizens who are subjected to crime.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-291	Mr President, I would like to That is, of course, correct, but the best crime is the crime that is not committed. I want to take the Police Authority a little in defense. The police have suffered from increased terrorist threats, the greatest influx of asylum since World War II and border control for the first time since 1994, i.e. for the first time in 22 years. It is clear that the exceptional workload and situation of the police lead to these results. That is why the government is now adding 250 million extra.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-294	Mr President, I would like to I ask my question to Ylva Johansson. Yesterday, the Government presented its budget for the coming years. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson emptys the barns when the government borrows in a boom. This means that Sweden is poorly equipped when the next recession comes. It will pose a threat to well-being when resources are lacking. Equally serious is that it is obvious that the government lacks a plan for jobs and how people with little education should enter the labour market. From the Liberals' side, we think it's better for people to have a job to go to even if that job has a lower starting salary. It's better than going idle on subsidies. This is what the Social Democrats and the government reject. One of the election promises of the Social Democrats was the trainee job. Instead of real jobs, young people would receive internships. 32,000 jobs were promised. It was 118. Almost 32,000 remain.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-299	Mr President, I would like to The government has a good grip on public finances, and Sweden is doing well. We get very good grades from outside assessors. As far as jobs are concerned, the government has a clear agenda. During our time, more people have got a job to go to and fewer people live on subsidies than when the old government ruled. However, even more needs to be done. For example, we have never had as many vacancies as we have right now. There are about 100 000 job vacancies and an increasing number of employers testify to the difficulty of recruiting staff with the right skills. At this point, it is important to invest widely in education. The government does this with major training efforts and by expanding the trainee jobs. We are also looking at other combinations of education and work, such as how to extend career introduction employment. We will need many models for how to train for the job vacancies.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-302	Mr President, I would like to The government is borrowing in a boom. This means that Sweden is poorly equipped on the day the economy turns downwards. In addition, the government lacks a plan for how to get more jobs. Out of 32,000 promised trainee jobs, it was 118. 31 882 jobs remain. When are they coming, Ylva Johansson?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-303	Mr President, I would like to Sweden handles the largest refugee reception we have seen. It is a temporary and great effort for society, and we are also funding it as a temporary and great effort. It is responsible to do so. There is no intrinsic value in having as many people as possible in labour market policy measures. What is important is that we can fight unemployment. The government does, and it has a good effect.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-305	Mr President, I would like to Last December, this House made a law on ID checks, which was good, but it was full of holes. One of these holes is the incomprehensible withdrawal period of two weeks in the law that will enter into force this summer. When I asked Morgan Johansson about this in committee not so long ago, he defended the withdrawal period by saying that it is needed to have time to evaluate the law. It is a curious justification because neither Morgan Johansson nor anyone else from the government stands at border control and does the ID checks. Does the government maintain that justification for having the withdrawal period, or will the government work to remove it before it falls at risk of an influx across our borders?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-308	Mr President, I would like to We have no plans to put forward proposals for new legislation. Nor is it laid down in the law when such a possible withdrawal period could come.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-309	Mr President, I would like to I have again made a proposal to the Committee on Justice to remove Section 6 of the Act which stipulates the withdrawal period. I would like to hear what the justification for such a withdrawal period is. Does Anders Ygeman agree with his colleague Morgan Johansson that the withdrawal period is meant to allow you to evaluate the law? That was the only reason Morgan Johansson mentioned in the committee. If so, it is a curious justification.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-311	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that neither I nor Morgan Johansson are the government rapporteurs on this issue. Responsible for the ID-control legislation is Minister Anna Johansson because it is an issue related to infrastructure and communications. It's a temporary law. When the law came into effect and it was decided on this in the Riksdag, the Riksdag also decided that it should have a limited period of validity and that it should then be evaluated.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-313	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. The government has now put forward the long-awaited proposal for a new film policy. This will mean that at least 30% of the country's cinemas are in danger of immediate closure. This is mainly because the government is proposing a quadrupling of the bio-VAT. It will be devastating – perhaps not so much in big cities as Stockholm where we are. But in rural areas, where people have lower incomes, such a drastic increase will be a huge problem. The government has proposed that with the help of SEK 10 million, efforts should be made to avoid immediate bio-death. But what will happen after 2019 when you no longer add any money, Alice Bah Kuhnke?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-316	Mr President, I would like to A great advantage of being Minister of Culture and Democracy in a Red Green Government is that we invest in culture, in all parts of culture and across the country. We have had a film agreement in Sweden that has allowed few actors to sit around the table and decide on film policy. And you have excluded all those who actually work with film, all screenwriters, all actors, all producers and so on. They have struggled to make films, perhaps with extra jobs in health care and in other parts of society. The film has not had the best conditions. But let's take this step. We'll let more actors in. We share power. There should not be a few – especially men – who sit around a table and decide. Now let's let the real actors in the film industry. We ensure that funding is provided. We increase the government budget for the film by SEK 200 million. And we have a long-term plan. We will ensure that there is money for Swedish film also for a long time to come.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-320	Mr President, I would like to In a well-known film, Sickan also had a plan. It didn't lock very often. But we hope that the government's proposal for a film policy will not go as badly. But, Minister of Culture, the film is supposed to be for the audience. The audience will not be able to go to the cinema because the cinemas will be closed down in rural areas.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-322	Mr President, I would like to This is exactly what Cecilia Magnusson says. It is the Swedish people who want to see Swedish film. That is what we are creating the conditions for now. There is one factor that is stronger than everyone else and that makes us go see movies. It's that it's good film, film that we want to see. And we want to see Swedish film. Swedish film is popular. That is why Swedish films need to be strong in competition with all other films, the big American films that roll in over our country and the whole of Europe. We will create those conditions. Let's make that bet.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-327	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Ygeman a question. It is about how we can work effectively against terrorism and organised crime without having negative consequences for individuals, ordinary people. The European Commission's proposal of November makes it difficult for ordinary hunters and sportsmen and does not have a sufficiently restrictive effect on the availability of illegal weapons. In the last month, we have heard the position of an environmentalist E Uropaic parliamentarian on the need for regular medical tests, the ban on semi-automatic weapons and the introduction of compulsory insurance. It is clear that the governing parties have different lines on these important issues. My question to Minister Ygeman is therefore: what does it look like? What line does the government as a whole take to get the best possible solution?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-330	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad to be able to reassure Daniel Bäckström. The government is united behind the Swedish line. The Riksdag is also united behind the Swedish line. We are opposed to the proposals made by Daniel Bäckström and put forward by the European Commission. It is important that we have tough arms legislation so that legal weapons do not come into the hands of terrorists and become illegal weapons. But it is also important that those gun owners who have legal purposes – such as hunters and sportsmen – can pursue their hobby without burdensome bureaucracy.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-332	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. At the same time, I can see that in the media there has been an unclear picture to the Swedish people about what is going on. Nevertheless, it seems that the government is prepared to agree to ban semi-automatic hunting weapons and to accept a restriction on arms licences. I would ask the Minister once again to clarify the sharp demands made in the negotiations.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-335	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Daniel Bäckström completely on both points. The Government and the Riksdag – The Center Party, the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Moderates – all parties in the Swedish Parliament – agree. It shall not be prohibited for hunters to use conventional semi-automatic weapons. Nor should we have five-year arms licences for hunters, and we should not require mandatory medical examinations. There I have great hope of being able to change the EU proposal.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-337	Mr President, I would like to I have asked Minister Ygeman a written question earlier about the police's ability to maintain law and order in an equal manner throughout the country. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank you for your answer. But I want to keep to the fact that the police seem to have capitulated in some areas. Emergency services cannot make their way in certain areas without being attacked. This is unacceptable and indecent in a civilised democracy. A further 3 300 police officers by 2020 will make a positive difference in the long term. However, people need the help of the police and emergency services already today. We need a police officer who is not afraid to enter areas and who can provide equal assistance to civil protection throughout our country.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-341	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. For starters, the police are in all those areas. The rescue services are operating in all those areas. The Swedish people have become safer. Crime's been reduced. However, the security of our most vulnerable residential areas has also decreased. So we get a spread of security. The vast majority have become safer, but the most vulnerable have become less secure. It requires society to return to those suburbs instead of withdrawing from them. We need more cops closer to the citizens. We don't have time to wait two or three years for more cops to be trained. We simply need to ensure that more police officers come through the reorganisation. In Rinkeby in Stockholm, we will open a new police station with over 200 police employees. We provide police resources to Storgöteborg and Malmö, precisely to bring more police officers closer to the citizens. It is by increasing people's security and confidence in the police there that we can fight crime.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-346	Mr President, I would like to A few thousand more police officers will be fine in the long run. But even tomorrow and the day after, people need help on the ground. And, as I said, it should be able to happen equally throughout our country. The issue is important precisely because it is about confidence in the judiciary, confidence in the police and that we should not have vigilantes or other things.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-348	Mr President, I would like to We agree on the ambition. We shall ensure that the socially vulnerable areas are also safe. In addition to the police efforts I was talking about, more jobs are also needed for people and higher employment. It takes better schools, so we have to reverse school results. I am convinced that with a firm policy we will be able to reduce unemployment, raise school outcomes and create safer areas.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-350	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. This is the first month in Sweden's history when the proportion of foreign born among enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen amounts to more than half, i.e. the majority of all enrolled are now foreign born. In relation to the population as a whole, 17% of people born abroad are born. It is almost a factor of three in over-representation of the number enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. This, of course, creates an unfair and segregated labour market. According to the government's long-term investigation and what is called PISA for adults – PAAC – the main reason is that the foreign born have a low educational background. Our agreement included compulsory schooling. When will the government put this school duty in place?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-354	Mr President, I would like to It is true that there is now a large proportion of people born abroad among the unemployed. This is an expected development, as population growth is mainly due to foreign births. New entrants to the labour market are today very much born abroad. It is therefore an expected development, but it also presents major challenges. As Mr Bali says, the biggest challenges are those with low education, especially those born abroad with very low levels of education. There are groups of women, not least, who may never have been allowed to attend school. Then the step into the Swedish labour market is very long. It is worrying that as small a proportion as today participates in the start-up assignment participates in any education in addition to Swedish for immigrants. Today, perhaps 7% of those leaving the start-up assignment go on to study. Against this background, the government is now preparing to introduce a so-called education obligation for low-skilled newcomers. Just as agreed with the other parties, we keep them constantly informed about the work.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-358	Mr President, I would like to Here the question is what can be done to raise people's level. And then the follow - up question is: What can be done to also lower thresholds? Even if you have completed a Swedish primary school, you may still have a long way to go to get a job; we know that with regard to Swedish young people who only have primary education. Then the question is: What does the government want to do to lower the thresholds for those who have fulfilled their school obligations?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-360	Mr President, I would like to Let me point out that the newcomers in Sweden have very different backgrounds, and now we are talking about people with very low education and no or very limited professional experience. Then it is a question of reducing wage costs significantly for employers, it is a question of providing good mentor support and it is a question of combining work with training, and we do.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-361	Mr President, I would like to My question is mainly addressed to the Minister for Labour. The government now intends once again to make it more difficult for disabled people and for those with problematic sick leave history to find a job. One of all the charges and savings announced by the government to finance its above all other priority investment in migration policy is to force employers to cover a significant part of the sick leave costs for long-term sick leave. This was tried earlier with the result that those with sick leave history had more difficulty finding a job, while very few were beaten back to work, which – as I understand it – was one of the ambitions. My question to the Minister for Labour is simply in what way this makes it easier for disabled people and people with long sick leave history to find a job.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-365	Mr President, I would like to The government has called on the social partners to agree on effective ways of reducing sick leave rates. We have had a worrying development since 2010 when sick leave has increased dramatically in the Swedish labour market, especially in women-dominating professions in welfare, such as teachers, social secretaries and nurses. If the parties do not agree, the government is prepared to act. According to the Government's proposal, this means making an exception for people who have been hired and who have a medical history. It should be avoided that there is a risk of hiring a person with a disability or a difficult disease background. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the trend that is now taking place with increased sick leave rates is totally untenable. The government will not accept that. There are significant shortcomings in teachers, social security secretaries and nurses. We need to keep people healthy and at work.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-368	Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats do the opposite, we make it easier to hire people with disabilities. We also want to remove sickness pay from the first nine employees. According to the Minister for Social Security, the cost of sick leave could increase by 29 billion over the period 2010-2020. An additional EUR 31 billion was allocated to the Migration Agency last night, with a total budget of EUR 50 billion per year. When I came to Parliament in 2010, the Finnish Immigration Service had 10 billion per year.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-371	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are known to want to make major cuts in welfare. It does not help those women who today are already overloaded in many of the welfare professions. The government has a comprehensive policy and, not least, responsibility for the area of health and safety at work, for which I am responsible. It'll mean a lot. We have invested in new resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We have a new work environment strategy that helps keep more people healthy at work. It is needed for the sake of the individual, for the sake of public finances and for the sake of welfare.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-374	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Secretary of State Ardalan Shekarabi. I live in Sweden's largest municipality, namely Kiruna. There is a large proportion of government jobs, in terms of the kingdom as a whole. This has enabled us to have a diversified labour market. For example, if a family moves to Kiruna where the woman has got a job in the mining industry, her partner can also get a job that suits him. On this basis, I would like to ask you a question. A month ago Statskontoret's report on state representation in the country came. The government said there should be an analysis. But can the Government say right now whether, on the basis of the report, there is anything that could prompt action from the Government?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-377	Mr President, I would like to The centralisation wave in the Swedish state is not a natural law. It can and must be stopped. The state must assume its responsibility to keep our country together and ensure the spread of state jobs. That is precisely why the government took up this issue immediately after the change of power. Now we have received the basis from Statskontoret, and we intend to move forward with developing clearer governance on issues relating to the localisation of the state authorities precisely in order to get a better spread of the state presence. It is incredibly important to get to grips with this. We must also work with relocations of government agencies, from Stockholm to the rest of the country. It is about maintaining the legitimacy of the Swedish state.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-380	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. As I mentioned, this works very well in Kiruna municipality, but it does not look as good throughout the country, not even in the whole of Norrbotten. Pajala municipality is such a municipality that has less presence of state authorities. The Government has already explained some of the government's willingness to locate government agencies in the rest of the country, and I wonder if he can develop it.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-382	Mr President, I would like to It is possible to streamline government operations while relocating state activities from Stockholm to other locations. Therefore, we have commissioned the State Service Centre to identify which public authority functions can be relocated and coordinated within the framework of the State Service Centre's operations. Then we work with two important processes, streamline administration in the state and ensure that jobs are moved outside Stockholm.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-384	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Ygeman a question. In many Swedish cities bullies have been formed. They call themselves Soldiers of Odin and have clear right-wing connections. The organisation is formed by a famous Nazi from Finland. Soldiers of Odin claim to want to create security, but instead creates fear for all those who do not fit into their right-wing society. Feminists, LGBT people and immigrants are particularly threatened. My question to the Minister is: how are we to prevent right-wing bullies like Soldiers of Odin spreading fear in our cities?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-387	Mr President, I would like to I thank Linda Snecker for the question. Although this is an alarming trend, I would like to say that this type of organisation is a sine qua non. Unfortunately, however, on each occasion they help to create disorder around them. Moreover, every time they increase the number of criminals on the streets, they have a large criminal record behind them. But I must also say that the times police and security officers have dealt with this type of institution a lot has been done and the events, for example at Stockholm Central, where security officers intervened decisively. I think the police have good control of the situation, and I hope that all law-abiding people in Sweden will help the police by working within the framework of the laws and regulations we have. In this way, we can increase the security of society.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-389	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer and agree very much with his description. But this is very disturbing. I have another question. According to chapter 18. Section 4 of the Criminal Code prohibits the creation of organisations that may develop into illegal police forces or paramilitary groups. Is it not time to modernise the law so that it also involves the creation of illegal bullies?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-391	Mr President, I would like to The clauses in the Criminal Code fall well under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. But I am not quite sure that the problem is legislation. In cases where there have been problems of order, I believe that the police have been able to act in a good way with the support of the legislation in force. I believe that we will be able to keep the streets free from both violent and bullying in the future as well.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-393	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask the Secretary of State a question. The question of the region has been investigated several times. A clear focus has been the labour market and regional growth. However, the map presented by the Division Committee seems to be based solely on health care. That is why I was surprised when I recently listened to an inter-parliamentary debate on the subject. I quote briefly from the Secretary of State's interpellation response: ..................................................... The geographical distances will always be the same. Oxelösund and Ljusdal will be 45 miles apart. How do the Minister and the Division Committee argue about functional links in transport, not least public transport, and the cost of whether the regions will be large geographical regions according to the re-debated map?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-396	Mr President, I would like to The issue of the region has been discussed and investigated since the end of the 1950s. The regions around our big cities have been given the opportunity to form large regions. But it has not happened in the rest of the country. That is why we in Sweden see an increased regional divide that risks splitting our society apart. I can't let that happen. That is why we need to have a regional organisation that meets today's needs, both in health care and in terms of regional development and growth. Today, the government decided on a legislative referral on the decentralisation of regional development responsibility from the state to the regions. It is important now to move forward with the regional issue in such a way that we create larger and more robust organisations capable of decentralising the management of healthcare, public transport and regional development issues. That is why the government has set up this committee.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-398	Mr President, I would like to So, with the Minister's reasoning, six poor county councils would be equal to a rich region. I think we should discuss this in an interpellation debate a little later. If the government believes that a new regionalisation should take place on the basis of health care, I wonder: Is there a statistical scientific connection between large hospitals, large county councils and good care at different levels?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-400	Mr President, I would like to The question of the need for user support in healthcare activities is well-examined, not only in the Responsible Committee but also in several other government investigations and also in evaluations from regional reforms in other countries. There's knowledge. It is not the lack of knowledge that has been the problem, but that we have not been able to move from words to action. Now is the time to move from words to action, because we must ensure equal health care throughout our country. It shouldn't matter where you live in the country.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-402	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson and is about youth unemployment. One of the worst feelings there is uncertainty about the future and uncertainty about the ability to support oneself and his family. And one of the best feelings is to get your first job and your first salary as a young person. Youth unemployment is now falling. But we must not be satisfied. We need to take further measures to combat youth unemployment.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-406	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ida Karkiainen for a very important question. Yes, youth unemployment is falling, but there are still a lot of young people who do not have jobs. We see special difficulties, for example, for young people who have a disability or who have had a complex problem with different types of obstacles to entering the labour market. Now is the time to ensure that all young people have the chance to get their first job. We have a good labour market, and that is why we are pooling our energies for young people, despite the fact that youth unemployment is now falling. Yesterday I visited Hudiksvall, where a very good collaboration has been achieved through the Government's initiative with the Delegation for Youth to Work. The municipalities are now gathering together with Arbetsförmedlingen and many private companies in the business sector to welcome their first young people to their first job. It is about creating meeting places locally and equipping young people.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-408	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It is also important that knowledge can be exchanged between young people and older people, for example when an elderly person is going to stop or step down and a younger person enters the labour market and wants to start stepping up. Are there any strategies for supporting this exchange of knowledge in the labour market?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-410	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it does. The government has now provided resources for the so-called trainee jobs, which mean that you are employed and educated in parallel. We are now easing the requirements for trainee jobs, so that more young people will have access to them. We also have career introduction positions. We are investing heavily in vocational education in both universities of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences. For many young people, the combination of education and work is a very good way to make this generation change, I think. We have significant skills needs in the labour market.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-412	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. The government now clearly intends to force a number of major regions into the country. The motive is, among other things, a better health care. Sweden has a world-class welfare. Comparisons show, for example, that Jönköping County and Halland County have the best care in Sweden. They're not big regions. There is also currently no evidence that quality of care, patient safety or efficiency improvements would increase with larger regions. We Moderates have said that we are sceptical about the far-reaching change that is being proposed, in the absence of civic benefit and strong support for the people today. My question to the Government is: how will health care be improved for the inhabitants of Greater Northernland, who, by the way, with their large distances cover as much as 58% of the country's surface?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-417	Mr President, I would like to We have enormous challenges in healthcare in Sweden. It is also shown by a forecast of the county council's finances. We have increased demand and demographic development that creates a lot of challenges. If we do not make structural changes in health care and welfare, we will see major regional disparities and reduced equivalence. We know that it takes a user base to be able to develop healthcare, streamline it and ensure that we follow in and maybe even drive the development in parts of healthcare. The county councils and the county council organisation that we have today do not meet today's needs, except in those parts where it has been possible to form a large region. But it doesn't apply to the whole country. It's for the whole country. This change must also be made with the stakeholders involved. That is why we have negotiators who do this together with the relevant county councils.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-421	Mr President, I would like to In the past, both the Governments of Persson and Reinfeldt have rejected proposals to divide Sweden into large regions. There are also no analyses showing that large regions would be the solution to Sweden's major challenges. From a health care perspective, large regions also lead to closures of both health centres and hospitals, which of course is devastating. According to Sifo, only two out of ten people think that a region is good. The Government is welcome to comment on these figures.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-422	Mr President, I would like to I note that first it is said that there are no impact assessments, but then there is the conclusion that health centres should be closed if large regions are formed. These are contradictory analyses, I have to say. It is important that we push through this change, not because the government wants it, but because there is a desire from those who work in healthcare and have knowledge of the healthcare challenges. We need to develop an organisation that meets today's needs. The Government and the Riksdag have a responsibility to ensure the whole. That's what we do.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-426	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. The government is now replacing the old film agreement with a state-wide film policy. 70% of the consultation bodies welcome the fact that the government is leaving the film agreement. I've heard the Government say it myself a number of times. Maybe that's right. I haven't counted sticks, but I've read a lot of referrals. Many and I too really want to modernise film policy. We fully agree on that. It's true. But although many agree that something new is needed, the criticism is massive against the funding, governance and content of the government's new film policy. The Government has often talked about the importance of dialogue and anchoring. What about it now? Is it not time to start over and set up a wide-ranging film investigation in which everyone can speak and make their proposals on what the new film policy should look like?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-430	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the question. I can recommend Bengt Eliasson to read the referrals. They give a lot of meat on the legs about what many and incredibly important referral bodies want with the Swedish film. As the Member of Parliament says, there is massive support for changing Swedish film policy and bringing it into the Swedish Parliament so that it becomes part of all other cultural policies. We shall take responsibility, debate and discuss film policy as we do in the whole cultural area. What is also clear is that we need funding and we need to move forward. The government has now put forward a series of proposals in a film bill. I have read your motions, because the matter is now going to be discussed in committee, and I can only see that you want to drag the matter to the bottom. You want to continue to investigate than one and the other. You have no idea about the future of Swedish cinema, but the government has.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-433	Mr President, I would like to I can assure the Minister of Culture that I have read very many of the referrals, but not really all but almost. That's exactly what the minister says. They basically show the same thing: Yes, we need something new, but not what is on the table. You want to be a part of deciding, discussing and delivering. The old film deal had reached the end of the road. We Liberals certainly do not want to go back. How do you replace it?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-434	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly important that we continue to discuss as we are right now. There will now be discussions in committee on the proposal submitted by the government. The suggestions that I have read when I nailed your motion responses are that the Film Institute should be investigated and that you want to investigate the funding of film policy. You want to investigate industry collaboration and set up a major new film investigation. The Swedish film does not need further investigations.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-437	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman. Overload attacks are becoming more common. We're reading about paralysed media houses and attacks on banks. There are attacks that we do not read about and perhaps also attacks in connection with the Panama papers. We don't know that. You might think that it is the so-called hackers who are particularly skilled and that they are the good ones. But it can be just the opposite. It may be that it is those who have servers that are particularly bad at monitoring their servers and that the hackers are not very skilled. One could imagine that there is some responsibility somewhere in the system. Perhaps we could consider whether we could have a servant's law of leniency, that is to say, to point out a responsible publisher as we do for newspapers and a manager as for nuclear power stations. Maybe you could have someone in charge of a server. What does the Home Secretary say?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-441	Mr President and Dan Klackenberg! The operator and the seller of the service are responsible. There is a responsibility on the part of the seller of the service to ensure that an infrastructure and structure are adapted and, of course, from the buyer to request reasonable protection and also to pay the price of reasonable protection. I gathered the whole of Mediesverige and Authority Sweden to discuss these issues together with the Minister for Culture. The main proposal put forward in this respect was that the media industry, network operators and authorities should sit down together and review the basic architecture of the system itself and develop it in a way that makes it less sensitive to this type of denial of service attacks. I think that is a wise way forward. Then the respective parties must take responsibility for the protection.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-444	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The Home Secretary isn't just tall. He's on his toes in these matters. I would like to pay tribute to that. But I think the Home Secretary also needs a stool to get up a little higher. Prime Minister Arvid Lindman couldn't drive. But he realized that there was a need for a traffic management team where the motorist takes full responsibility regardless of what happens. Prime Minister Erlander did not understand nuclear reactors. But he introduced a nuclear liability law with strict responsibility. Someone even introduced a responsibility for dogs. Can't Prime Minister Löfven do something too?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-446	Mr President, I would like to I'll leave the dog question unanswered. However, the government has now begun work on a national cyber and cyber security strategy. In working on this strategy, Dag Klackenberg's proposal is excellent to consider, so that both those who can and those who cannot consider which are the most effective measures.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-447	Mr President, I would like to My questions are addressed to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Last Sunday, the Vice-Chairman of the Turkish Federation made a most inappropriate and offensive statement when he said, among other things, death to Armenian dogs. Let us show Sweden what the Turk stands for. He also talked about letting the blood flow. This he did in the face of a jubilant crowd of Fascist symbols. Mr President, I would like to This speech was given in the middle of central Stockholm on Sergels torg. This is something that should not be allowed to happen in our country. It is a threat to our democracy and all that it entails. The Turkish National Association is also an organisation that receives large amounts of money in state subsidies, hence my questions.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-451	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. The statements made are repulsive statements. The fact that they are spoken by an elected representative of an organisation that has received state subsidies is a matter of criticism and unacceptable. Our democratic values in our country must always be high and we must defend without exception at all times 24 hours a day. I'm incredibly upset. It is deeply upsetting that it is precisely an elected representative who has done this. As far as State aid is concerned, it is the authorities that carry out the grant management. It is the exercise of authority and nothing that the government or Aida Hadzialic is responsible for in this case. However, there are clear regulations that allow you to withdraw state aid after an investigation if necessary. Such missions are entrusted to the Authority.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-454	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hear what you're saying. Will the government in any way review the situation? In view of the answer, is there any reason to review the rules themselves when such situations arise? It is good to know when an organisation has forfeited its right to receive state subsidies.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-456	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise what I said just now, that this is a matter of exercising authority. It is the Authority that decides when an organisation should receive state aid, and it is also the Authority that withdraws state aid. This does not mean that we, as a government, cannot give the mandate to review the existing regulations. A number of such assignments are currently under way, including SST's grant distribution to religious communities. There is also another review that I know Aida Hadzialic is currently working on.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-458	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Labour. The group of foreign-borns accounts for a large proportion of those who are unemployed. Many have only one primary education. But even among newcomers who actually have an education, validation takes a long time. It is possible to shorten that time by means of special tests of knowledge. But it has turned out that few pass the tests. At the beginning of the reign, the Minister for Labour talked about a national validation centre, but we have not heard much more about the latter. I didn't find anything in the spring budget either.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-462	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Katarina Brännström, for the question! This is a very urgent issue raised by Katarina Brännström. In the bill the government submitted yesterday to the Riksdag, we allocate additional funds to be able to assess foreign grades more quickly. We have appointed a validation delegation led by the former head of Almega, Jonas Milton. He has a very ambitious mission. In my area of responsibility, we have introduced a wide range of fast tracks, and more are in the pipeline. It is also validated in the home language. Otherwise there is a risk that validation will be more of validating knowledge of the Swedish language than of validating professional knowledge. It is important to ensure that it is really professional knowledge that is validated. It happens in area by area. Preparatory training has also been developed within the framework of the fast track so that more people can pass the proficiency test more quickly.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-466	Mr President, I would like to Fast track is good, and we know validation is difficult. In several places in both the autumn and spring budgets, it says that the government will return with additional measures to speed up the establishment of new arrivals. This is a road. When will more powerful action be taken to bring the time for validation speed up? It's urgent.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-468	Mr President, I would like to The government has put forward comprehensive proposals regarding resources for more validation. In this context, a complete change in policy orientation was already taking place in the autumn budget in order to obtain substantial resources for validation. What is needed now is that validation can take place in several languages. Validators are trained to perform validation in several languages. I share the view that validation is a very important piece of the puzzle. There, the government is making great efforts.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-470	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. Today, the threat of terrorism is very real. Jihadist organisations, including IS/ Daish, have expanded their terrible activities to Europe. Here they want to polarize societies and add hatred to Muslims to achieve their goal of inclusive war against the West. Unfortunately, the terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels, including the bombing in Stockholm on Bryggargatan 2010 where a man blew himself up, clearly show the seriousness of the situation. At the same time, we know that the old moderate-led government was extremely passive in preventing and preventing violent extremism and terrorism in our country. Could the Minister of the Interior briefly outline the government's actions in the fight against terrorism?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-474	Mr President, I would like to Work on the new national anti-terrorism strategy began as early as last January. We managed to bring together broad consensus behind the measures in Parliament's Chamber. 14 days ago, terrorist war voyages were criminalized. Today, the Government gave a mission to the Security Service to come back with proposals on how further terrorist war travellers could be brought to justice with the new legislation. Tomorrow, the new legislation on stopping the misuse of Swedish passports will enter into force. The government will shortly set up an investigation to tighten up the tools of the Security Service and the police in the form of secret data reading. We tighten the penalties for crimes involving explosives and hand grenades, and we criminalise attempts, incitement and conspiracy to commit weapons and serious weapons crimes. On a rosary, the government's measures to stop, prevent and make terrorism more difficult are now coming into force.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-477	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It shows a clarity, firmness and determination in the fight against terrorism so that people can feel that the government is taking the issue most seriously in everyday life. It is also clear that in just over a year and a half the government has taken a series of measures in the fight against terrorism, including prevention. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for the fact and the calmness with which he deals with these issues. It's important and invaluable.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-480	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that the work to combat terrorism jointly across the bloc line will continue. We have agreed with the opposition. The opposition has also made a powerful contribution to getting the measures in place. That work goes on.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-482	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Ardalan Shekarabi my question. My question concerns public procurement. Some research has been carried out to show that we have been poor in terms of social requirements in public procurement. We can be much better there. Another problem has been that even municipalities that make social demands can be surprised by the fact that it is venture capital companies with short-term profit interests that can win a procurement. Companies control the bureaucracy of the procurement process. They can make low bids, i.e. charge a low price, and they can claim that they have many qualified teachers, for example. Afterwards, it may turn out that this was not true, but they won the contract. The problem is that there are major drawbacks to the fact that short-term profit interests are ravaged by welfare. How are we gonna stop them? How will municipalities that want to stop them succeed?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-485	Mr President, I would like to One of the most important areas of administrative policy is public procurement policy. The government is currently developing a national procurement strategy. We set targets for public procurement. We use the SEK 600 billion spent on public procurement as a strategic tool for developing and organising the public sector. We need to improve follow-up so that the requirements imposed are also followed by suppliers. Here the Government has created the Procurement Authority, an independent authority with only the task of providing support to contracting authorities and suppliers. It is not a supervisory perspective but a supportive perspective. Then together we can improve the quality of public procurement and improve the methods of follow-up. Here we see very good collaboration between many municipalities. Now the state goes in and provides support to these municipalities. I am convinced that we will see the direct impact of procurement policy. This concerns the quality of public procurement activities.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-488	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad to hear that. Municipalities must be better initially in the procurement process so that they can get the requirements they set and then in the follow-up. It shouldn't be that it's okay to promise gold and green forests, and then it won't be at all as promised. The quality is poor, and then the company can cut gold with a knife. It's about our tax money. I'm looking forward to work. It can have a big effect.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-489	Mr President, I would like to We also need to work on changing the review rules. One of the problems we have with public procurement is that the contracting authorities are too cautious because they are afraid to go to court and have delayed procurement. Therefore, the Government has also put forward a proposal for a change in the rules for review of public procurement. We intend to proceed with this issue and to take more extensive measures to make the review of public procurement more effective precisely in order to give the right room for manoeuvre to contracting authorities and suppliers.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-491	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The last time I went to Question Time was on February 25. I then asked the Minister for Culture and Democracy about her commitment and what she was doing to address the threats and harassment of Christian refugees in Swedish asylum homes. I got a very committed answer, really. I understood that the Minister for Democracy and I agreed in principle that we really need to do something here. In his last speech, the Minister for Democracy said that the government is working on an action plan. It includes both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the Interior. I have just one question: how is the action plan going?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-495	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Abrahamsson, for the question. There are several action plans going on, and it is going very well. An action plan is based on a review of state support for religious communities. They work with the religions but also with getting their involvement in the different housing. There is ongoing follow-up work based on the Migration Agency's responsibility that handles the residents. I also have a work with the Swedish Church where we try to identify how the threats are. Is it a widespread problem, and what are church fundraisers? So there are a number of work going on with strategies or action plans, and that is going very well. I hope I can come back and have more discussions on this. However, I would like to stress the importance of missing the basis for identifying and establishing that this is a widespread problem. We are now trying to collect data. I do so in the dialogues I have with the various authorities in this area. So far, we know it's...
i-8bd884e864ce0043-502	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to put my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke, and address the terrible demonstration that took place in Sergels Square on Saturday. After this terrible speech, a great many Swedish-Turkish people distanced themselves from this person's statements, and through social media and many other channels many condemned him and his organisation as a whole, many ex-presidents and others. Since then, a huge discussion has spread on the social media. I would like to ask the Minister for Democracy whether she has in any way initiated a meeting with the existing groups and called them for continued dialogue between the different groups.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-505	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to express once again my outrage at the appalling statements that have been made. That is not just my position, it is that of the whole government. It is serious and extremely remarkable that an elected representative makes such statements. I have also noted that he is no longer part of the organisation and that a police report has been made. That's good! In view of this, I have not taken any initiative for a new meeting. After all, I meet representatives of civil society regularly. This particular grant is under the authority of another government minister, and I cannot speak for what initiatives Aida Hadzialic has taken. But, of course, we need to stress the importance of the fact that if you receive state subsidies, then this is done with a very clear democratic sign – end of story. I will pass this on to all civil society organisations and all activities that receive state subsidies at all.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-510	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. In 2015, 112 cases of fatal violence were found in Sweden. The victims were in 74 percent of the cases men. In 71 per cent of the cases, the works were reported in the three metropolitan regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. I myself participated in a demonstration just over two weeks ago in Rinkeby, where many people joined in the fight against deadly violence because there have been some shootings in the area. According to Brå, firearms are used in one third of the recorded cases of fatal violence.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-514	Mr President, I would like to A number of things are being done. I myself have been travelling in the Balkans to initiate measures and better police cooperation between Sweden and the Balkans. As late as noon. 13.30 today, before I went to Question Time, I met here in Sweden the Bosnian Deputy Minister for Security to discuss an in-depth work against weapons. But we also need to tighten up Swedish legislation. We must increase the penalties for explosives and hand grenades. We need to criminalise conspiracy, preparation and incitement to gross gun crime. I have presented, together with the Minister for Justice, a comprehensive programme against serious and organised crime and what measures we intend to take to combat serious and organised crime. We also see a positive development in Gothenburg, where there were hardly any convictions for eight years. Now 20 people are convicted of gang violence in Gothenburg, and another 25 are waiting in custody. Soon the trial of the shootings will begin on Spring Weather Square. That investigation covers over 10,000 pages.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-519	Mr President, I would like to My view and that of the Center Party is that after over 300 years Sweden needs a new regional division. It is necessary in order to draw power from the state to powerful modern regions and to reduce pressure on municipal mergers. The question is well investigated, and it is time to come to the fore. I think the Secretary of State is doing a good job on this issue. Skåne and Västra Götaland went ahead and regions were formed in 1999. Now it is time for the rest of Sweden to follow suit and get a comprehensive solution. However, some parties oppose this and instead celebrate Axel Oxenstierna's division from the 17th century with the infrastructure and technology of that time. How does the Minister of Civil Affairs assess the possibility of a – as I see it necessary – parliamentary decision during this term of office? There is, of course, strong pressure from the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, who know this question. Adjustments may need to be made to the proposal, but what happens if it does not go through?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-523	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the commitment of the centre movement to this important decentralisation reform. Sweden will be regionalised. There is broad agreement on this. Regionalisation serves our country. Regionalisation reduces the gaps in our society and ensures equality in welfare. What is now required is that we let the negotiators work together with the county councils and municipalities concerned and the other actors involved in the matter so that they prepare a basis that the government can proceed with. One aspect that is forgotten in this debate is the need to coordinate the division of the State and to ensure that the regional division of the State is consistent with that of the regions. This aspect is therefore also taken into account. We intend to pursue an active dialogue with all the parties concerned with a view to bringing this reform through during the term of office. It is time to take action.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-529	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke. On Saturday TV4 broadcasts the former Vice-Chairman of the Turkish Federation, who, in his speech on Sergels Torg in the middle of Stockholm, called Armenians dogs and called for blood to flow. Also a minister figures in the Swedish press as a dinner party to the former chairman and to a representative of the fascist organisation Grey wolves. The Turkish National Association in Sweden is financed by, among other things, Swedish tax funds. The government now has the opportunity to move from words to actions and show that it is protecting human rights and marking against racist acts.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-534	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for giving me this question again! The statements made last Saturday were despicable and abominable, and they have no place in our democracy or in the democratic dialogue. It is of the utmost importance that our elected representatives and we people stand up for human rights at all, respect each other and in this way use the political channels to bring about change. So what happened was totally detestable. For us, it is important to mark this by continuing to pursue an active civil society policy and clarifying the directives governing all state grants. Money should not go to anti-democratic forces. Money should not go to violent movements. We must be very clear about that. I know that the responsible Minister Aida Hadzialic is currently discussing how to make any reviews. It is crucial and important that we mark this in a clear way and ensure that our regulatory framework works.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-538	I would like to thank the Members and ministers involved for this question.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-539	Mr President, I would like to It's been a while since I requested a reply. It is a question of reconnecting with what we were talking about at the time. There are a lot of claims made. Many times we see a number of social problems in the same way. One of the social problems raised by the representative of the Swedish Democrats here was illegal settlements. We have not moved forward here because the government has taken an initiative. We do not feel the need for unnecessary announcements. We think it is a serious social problem and we are following developments, but we are not prepared to support an announcement at this stage. Then I think it is wrong when the party representative of the Swedish Democrats says that the Swedish Democrats are the only ones who have thought about this and the only ones who do something about it. This is something that recurs in the Swedish democrats' debate technique. They want to claim that they are so unique in their politics, and if we had only satisfied the Swedish Democrats, we would have been able to do more. Then I have to ask you a counter-question. There have been great opportunities in this report to achieve more, but you have chosen to abstain. You are happy to explain to your constituents and to us why you have not supported the possibility of receiving an announcement on crime-fighting. You talk about it all the time. Why have you not supported action against serious cross-border crime? You talk about it all the time. Why have you not supported defectors' activities in the area of serious organised crime? You guys usually support it. Why have you not supported an action plan against trafficking in human beings? That's what you talk about. Why have you not supported the introduction of a preparatory crime in the case of a serious weapon offence? After all, you have spoken a great deal about serious weapons crimes and converted gas weapons as well. And why do you, who claim to be the main friends of the hunting movement, not want to follow up on what applies to joint arms missions or the legal provisions of arms law?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-548	Madam President, I would like Krister Hammarbergh talks about unnecessary announcements. In fact, I mentioned in my speech that there is work going on and that an investigation is being presented in May. Of course, you can settle for that and wait for what the investigation says, for what the government's comments are and for any proposals to come. Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson has announced, in connection with the commissioning of the investigation, that it is unacceptable that more illegal settlements should be established and that it must be easier for the police to evict. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has been identified as an unnecessary part of the handrails and so on. If there had not been such a big discrepancy between what the Social Democrats in the government say and what the Social Democrats and the government ultimately do, we might also have been content to wait for the investigation. However, in this report too, there are announcements which the Alliance supports and which were up for discussion as announcements last year too. I suppose that suggests that the Alliance identifies about the same problem as I do in this case. As far as illegal settlements are concerned, we have chosen, as it were, to have both suspenders and belt straps for safety reasons, to mark where we stand on this issue. With regard to the other announcements, which we have not supported, I would like to say that we are trying to look as closely as possible at all the proposals that have been made. If we feel that they are too tamely formulated or that we ourselves have a better policy, for example in terms of facilitating hunting and arms owners, we choose not to support the Alliance's reservations. We feel that we ourselves have better proposals in this area. However, if there are other suggestions, please inform me if there is something we have missed.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-552	Madam President, I would like Based on what you in the Swedish Democrats themselves say, you have missed seven important points. Reviewing arms legislation is one of the main demands of the hunting and shooting movement. In fact, you've missed that. The rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats often says that they are alone in the proposals and the only ones that drive them. Then it may be interesting to indulge in some historical research. I remember when the Swedish Democrats came into Parliament. Then they had only seven claims overall in a whole year. There was no legal policy in the Swedish Democrats at all. The following year they had looked around in Parliament's papers. Then demands quickly appeared that the rest of us had worked on for a long time. In this way, a judicial policy was obtained by copying. It's okay, I think. Good suggestions are supposed to be spread. But that does not mean that you have invented them yourself or that they are in any way unique. There is reason to correct that. However, there is one area where you are unique and have thought about. That's when you want to set up a gendarmerie organization. You are not really the first to think about it, because it was thought of in France already in the 140th century when you were going to solve the social problems of that time. Since then many countries have had this type of organization, including Prussia, but there it was abolished in 1806 because it had become out-of-date. Certainly I will admit that this type of organisation was used in the 19th century, and the reason that there was a gendarmerie organisation was that there was no police service. In order to maintain order in the countryside, armed troops were then assigned to civilian tasks. You are unique about this proposal in the Swedish Parliament. Congratulations on the proposals to solve today's social problems!
i-8bd884e864ce0043-558	Madam President, I would like Who came up with the proposals first is something that voters have to decide if they think it is important to know. We often point out that the Alliance and perhaps above all the Moderates have copied much of our policy. It concerns criminal policy and, in particular, migration policy. There are, of course, several proposals in this report on which we are alone and which have not been tabled by any other party. It concerns the proposal for a national ban on begging, which I raised in my speech. The Alliance and the Moderates try to allude to the desire to tackle this problem, which many experience as a disturbing moment in the cityscape, but the result of Moderate policies is that only crimes involving the possible exploitation of EU migrants by others are prosecuted. There are no proposals that make any real difference. However, this exists in other European countries. For example, we could see it when we were on a committee visit to Holland and The Hague, where in the space of one or two weeks foreign begging had been eliminated by prohibiting begging. There are several areas where we are actually alone. And yes, as Krister Hammarbergh says, copying is not wrong. You are welcome to copy our proposal for a national begging ban and come back with it. We know that this is the only effective way to do it. The government also writes in its report that it should help on the ground and not make it easier for EU migrants to beg on the streets of Sweden, because it is not a help to those who are vulnerable. It is to be welcomed if you copy the proposal for a national begging ban in the future.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-562	Madam President, I would like We are now reopening the debate on police matters. That's interesting. There are many thoughts and opinions in the Riksdag. That's 180 requests on these issues-- that's not bad. As far as police issues are concerned, we have a joint reservation from the government parties, the Green Party and the Social Democrats. We won't ask for approval of it, for time winning. But, of course, we are behind the reservation. As far as the police organisation is concerned, many of these proposals are really about how quickly the police work, about the efficiency of the organisation and so on. The big question behind this is: how is the reorganisation going? I still have to take a few minutes to explain. I'm very impressed with how you work. From the committee we have visited a number of police districts. We have been to Örebro, Gothenburg, Linköping and Uppsala. Tomorrow we will be in Malmö. I've never been so involved in the police organization before. I am impressed by the way such a large reorganisation is going on despite all the difficulties. It's very difficult, but you deal with it. I also feel that it is a broad willingness to carry out the reorganisation. It's not that I suddenly hear: Oh, this is all wrong. Hold it! Hold it! Back up! Back up! Back up! Something is being realized about what we are changing. There was a broad parliamentary agreement to change the organisation so that we have more police officers who can work out on the streets at the bottom of the field and really meet the citizens. It's slowly happening. But of course it will not be quick, because it takes time for large reorganisations in large organisations to settle down. And they're hard to implement. Nevertheless, I hear, even from the trade unions, that it is slowly moving forward. There's a lot more we have to do. There are questions about resources. There is the question of the police profession at all. And it is not an easy situation when, at the same time, we have the issue of external border control. We have the question of the treaty movement. In the middle of this I must express my great respect for the police organization in Sweden and how to work with this. Such things cannot be done quickly. I was into it in several of my posts earlier. It is much better that it goes slowly and becomes real than that it goes fast and goes wrong. I will not say it again, I hope, because then we will have a debate on this again. But that's what's important. Then my colleague Elin Lundgren has gone into budgetary issues, for example, which this debate is not really about, but which are very important to add. The government is serious about this and wants to do it. That is also why we have this joint reservation from the Green Party and the Social Democrats.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-570	Madam President, I would like I wanted to start the speech by linking a little to the terrible terrorist events that we have seen in the near future in our neighbourhood. We had constructive talks with the government parties. Even the Left Party was a long time in those talks and contributed constructively, even if they were not there all the way. When such horrors happen, it is often a natural reaction to demands for increased repression. You get scared, and you get scared. It's a natural reaction. It's completely human. We are prepared to trade some freedom for greater security. But then you might overestimate the strength and the connection between the two important values. Indeed, reduced freedom does not automatically lead to increased security. An example of a measure that may be introduced in the wake of precisely the fear generated by the terrorist attacks concerns the Commission's call for a new arms directive. There are a lot of doubts from a Swedish perspective. You don't really seem to have an insight into how it works for Swedish hunters and sportsmen. This is worrying, and it needs to be followed very closely. We in the committee have received quite strong assurances from the government that there is a line and discussion in the Council of Ministers on these issues that are acceptable. We'll see where it goes. But this is an example of having to hold two balls in the air at the same time. There is a difference between legal weapons held by responsible arms owners and illegal weapons used for terrible crime. Examples of this are, in fact, in the report of p. 8. In paragraph 40, we reserve the Alliance's side in favour of criminalising attempts, preparation and conspiracy to commit a serious weapon offence. At the same time, in paragraph 44, which has also become an announcement, we propose to have shorter processing times in arms licensing cases for all law-abiding and responsible arms owners who want to use their weapons for good purposes. In this report, as in the report that we debated a moment ago, there are a great many ideas. But common to the ideas is that they come most from the opposition. The government doesn't have much to offer. Those of us who stayed and listened during Question Time today heard how, above all, Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke was asked about what happened in Sergel's Square the other day. A person who represents an organisation that receives a great deal of state subsidies devoted himself to what must be a criminal expression and used words that I do not want to put into my mouth in this House. Part of the terrorist strategy that we worked out together is just something that I brought with me into those talks. It is about strengthening the regulatory framework for the use of public funds and not spending tax money on those who spread violent or anti-democratic messages. Those of you who heard Question Time a moment ago heard that the Minister for Democracy promised that this would be reviewed and that they are working on it. But we have not yet seen any results. It is time to deliver on that point. It feels extremely urgent. We have a large number of other reservations that I would like to highlight. We have some alliance movements. I would like to highlight the work of the municipalities against serious organised crime. It is reservation 6 from the Center Party, to which I would like to endorse. I would also like to endorse the alliance reservation No 21 to criminalise attempts, preparation and conspiracy to commit a serious weapon offence. The lack of ideas from the government could have been met by a substantial effort that could have been announced in our budget bill. But that has not been the case. I was a little corrected. I had said that 250 million was the government's only bet and that it would go to the police to check the Öresund commuter ID. Turns out it was 283 million. I apologize for that misunderstanding. But in the Center Party we see a greater need. We want 2 000 new police officers by 2020. We set aside over four years 2.4 billion for that to happen and for us to guarantee people's security in Sweden.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-582	Madam President, I would like In a political climate that is in place of asylum law, breathing space, instead of family reunification, says ID controls and instead of legal ways say agreements with Turkey, a different voice is needed. 60 million people are on the run in the world today. 30 million of them are children. Every day two children die in the Mediterranean. To flee your country, to leave everything you have loved, to leave your house, your friends and your family, to take the family in hand and try to go somewhere else is an extremely human response to what it looks like right now in many countries. Then the rest of society, the rest of the world, must stand up with decency. We are doing so in Sweden today. In 2013, we changed the school law so that children who are undocumented have the right to attend school. This is an extremely good reform, an extremely good law. Everyone should be entitled to education. Whether you have fled your country, whether you are allowed to stay in this country or not, you as a child must have certain specific rights. In the last three debates, I have mentioned the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the importance of introducing the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law, and I would like to do so even today. Everyone has the right to education. Children have a special reason for protection. It's about the right to education even if you're a paperless child, the right to read, learn to write, to play in school. This is extremely important, Madam President. No matter who you are, no matter which country you are in, you should be able to attend an education. The school must be a free zone when the rest of society is terrible, when the rest of your life is extremely uncertain. That's why the Left Party wants the police not to be able to pick up undocumented children at school. The police, which we are debating today, must be a safe, credible and professional authority. It must be decent to work in the agency. Bringing children from their school, from their safety, from their playmates is not a decent job. The school must be a free zone for the children. The police must be a good workplace for the employees. If the police have the opportunity to pick up children at school, we will see that fewer children go to school, simply because the family is afraid that the children will be picked up after a expulsion decision. This is about what society we want and what security we want to give children, regardless of which country they come from. The Government writes in its reply that it says in the National Police Board's directive that the police should not pick up children at school. It's advice and directives. It is great that it says there and that there is clarification in text for police officers who work with just such tasks, but the Left Party wants to go a little further. It's time for a change of law. I don't want some kids to be terrified when they see a cop and run away while their schoolmates might run up to the police car and think it's cool and fun with sirens and someone in uniform. I want every child, no matter who they are, to feel joy when they see the police. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 14.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-594	Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on the issue of one of the announcements made by the committee regarding police duties and reindeer farming that some have been discussing. It is a very urgent question, and we have asked written questions and interpellations to the Government. Today I hear from the Social Democrats that there are a number of things going on. At the same time, the report states very clearly on p. 20 that there is limited scope for further refining of police activities, which is why it is not justified at the moment to investigate the matter in particular further. It is also stated in some other places that in a government decision a year ago, the government actively decided to close and close the investigation to streamline the police's tasks. So do not come and claim that that work is going on as usual, for it does not. We have also asked questions in this House to the Minister for Home Affairs, and he has made it very clear that we are not going to resume the clean-up of police duties. This is very unfortunate, Madam President, in a situation where we are going to get a new police organisation in place and where police officers end prematurely, retire early or leave the authority of other employers. What you can do in an emergency is stop the outflow, stop the police dropout and attract good employees back. One measure that does not cost much money is precisely to refine the police's duties. We have also exercised that organised crime is worrying and that the availability of heavy weapons is on the increase. According to the police's national operational department, there is an increase in the use of violence among criminals. What is also of concern to us, and which we have highlighted in a number of motions together with the Alliance, is the situation in the vulnerable areas and the police's work in the particularly vulnerable areas. There too, the government parties reject our claims, and that is regrettable. We have 14 particularly vulnerable areas. The police report that these are areas where the police are mostly acting reactively. It has become a normalisation of extreme violence environments, parallel structures, threats, violence, weapons and drug sales, and these areas unfortunately coincide with the extreme radicalisation environments that Sweden needs to address right now. We have proposed criminalising both serious weapons offences and ordinary arms offences. We also want to introduce a new criminal offence, a particularly serious smuggling offence, in which we want to increase the minimum penalty. It would also facilitate the possibility for the judiciary to use secret coercive measures much earlier to tackle organised crime, not least in the vulnerable areas, and also to tackle the large-scale smuggling of illegal weapons. The committee rejects this motion. I agree with all the reservations, but I would particularly like to support reservation 19 on behalf of the Liberals. It is not enough for the announcements made by the government to criminalise the preparation of serious weapons crimes, but unfortunately the Red-Greens are still voting down our proposal. We heard here during Question Time that the Minister for the Interior was ripping up several of the Alliance's and not least the Liberals' proposals on hand grenades and sharpened weapons crimes. But today his party colleagues are voting against our proposals. It is very symbolic that it should happen almost at the same time. From the Liberals, we have also proposed that hand grenades be classified as weapons. The government has expressly said no to that. You don't want to classify hand grenades as weapons. On the other hand, it has been said that we want to look at the scale of penalties, and an investigator has recently presented a proposal that is in line with the demands that we also have. I hope that this talk that we hear from the red-green and, not least, from the Minister for the Interior begins to result in a workshop. You can't blame the police department every time. You can't blame the chief of police every time. It is not always possible to say that we are waiting for 2018. This reform must come into place. The number of external, visible police officers is falling. Operational capacity is being reduced. This is a major problem, and it is serious and worrying that the red-greens do not realise this.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-605	Madam President, I would like We are discussing the police in this police report. The police are in the midst of major challenges as a result of the refugee situation and the threat of terror. The police themselves have requested reinforcement of resources. For the Christian Democrats, it is urgent that the police have the resources and tools to deal with today's and tomorrow's strained situation. We will come back to this. But we have already presented measures that could quickly increase the ability, including by re-establishing the emergency services, cooperating more with the Swedish Armed Forces and security officers, and bringing police students into service earlier. These are some of the measures we have proposed. But even if more police officers were to be trained today, it takes several years before they are on duty, so both short-term and long-term measures are needed to strengthen police capabilities. More visible police officers in crime-prone areas, efforts to combat everyday crime, increased capacity to deal with terrorist threats and efforts to prevent radicalisation and recruitment to violent Islamism are some parts of the police's work that need to be strengthened. To increase security, work is needed at all levels. Local work has a wide range of tools to prevent crime and to work systematically against insecurity, both in terms of preventing young people from getting involved in crime and abuse, and in terms of tackling serious crime. It is also at the local level that prevention needs to be sharpened to counter radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremism. There are currently environments in Sweden where they recruit openly to IS/ Daish. These are environments where the norm is that IS is cool and that if you don't support IS you deviate from normal. This must, of course, be taken very seriously. I have mentioned earlier in this House, Madam President, that it is problematic when, for example, the political leadership in Malmö has not taken the problem seriously. Here the municipality, police, Muslim parishes and other good forces must work concretely and jointly to stop recruitment. The Christian Democrats also want to commission the Living History Forum to inform and provide knowledge of the violent Islamism, in addition to the mission they already have. The Swedish school cannot be silent when IS propaganda is spread among our young people. Madam President, I would like In order to combat and prevent crime, the police need to become more effective, investigate more crimes and streamline their work. Several of my alliance partners have already considered the importance of the investigation that the government – which I find regrettable – has closed. It was just to refine the police's duties. In a policeman's everyday life, it is often a matter of managing an administration that takes too much time, working in computer systems that feel ancient and filling in endless documents for the slightest misdemeanor. It is positive that changes are underway, and it is positive that smart phones are on their way out to the policemen in the organization. But it's going too slow. A modern debriefing system is needed that is adapted to the current situation. It takes an average of one hour and six minutes for a patrol to report an errand and be ready to go out again. If the time required for debriefing were to be reduced by, say, ten minutes per police officer, it would be equivalent to about a hundred police officers in annual working hours, who, instead of sitting inside and buttoning on a 1987 computer system, could be working in criminal areas. It is important for the public to feel that the police are present and visible. It is essential that society tackles the problem of particularly vulnerable areas in a clear and robust manner. Perseverance in the crime prevention work of the police and municipalities is required. The efforts must not be temporary, Madam President. The basic right of citizens to security applies regardless of their place of residence. As you can see, I support the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats and the Alliance in the report, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 2.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-615	Madam President, I would like 中 E 6 in Halland. Ambulance personnel work feverishly to revive a man who floats between life and death. Several curious people stop to photograph and film the course of events. Ordinary people, someone with a child on his shoulder. The situation is desperate, the staff appeal to the spectators to get something from the ambulance. But no one responds to the call, instead the filming continues. Resuscitation attempts fail and the man dies. "When you are even asked to help, but you choose to stand and shoot and film, then I think it has gone out of control," says Fredrik Arvidsson, police inspector at the police in the region west. ..................................................... What I just read was a quote from the Gothenburg-Post from 12 May last year. The situation is at least as relevant today. Ambulance personnel, rescue services and police officers testify to how, instead of moving and facilitating emergency response, people get in the way with mobile cameras in the highest blow and film the accidents. That behaviour is, of course, totally unacceptable. But as long as the legislation gives the green light to these vile hyenas, there is no legal possibility to curb this development – no legal possibilities. I have therefore proposed in my motion 2015/ 16:306 that the issue of criminalisation be investigated. What I want is therefore a criminalisation of those who, in the event of accidents, refuse to obey the instructions of ambulances and medical staff, police, fire brigades and other rescue services. In fact, I have rarely felt that I have had as good a reason for exercising as in this case. That is why I have also been genuinely excited about how the committee – and ultimately the Swedish Parliament – would stand up to my motion. Certainly, the Committee on Justice regrets that there are people who do not comply with the instructions of the police or other staff at accident sites. However, the motion is rejected on the grounds that, in certain situations, the police may have the right to use force to push people aside when an accident has occurred. Madam President, I would like That answer, as I see it, has the closest character of a good day axshaft and does not solve the problem at all. That is clearly not even the opinion of the police officers who themselves serve at the accident sites. As police inspector Fredrik Arvidsson stated in the Gothenburg-Post– I repeat, when you are even asked to help, but you choose to stand and shoot, then I think it has gone out of control. ..................................................... I'm not expecting a line here today. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the members of the committee: what pleasure do you think the committee's reference to a rather self-evident clause in the Police Act to the effect that the police have the right to use violence has brought to their attention? What help do ambulance personnel have of it? No, the only effective remedy against a mobile-photographing mob preventing ambulance staff and rescue services from carrying out their vital work is to make it criminal not to comply with the instructions given by police or other competent personnel at the scene of the accident. It is therefore with regret that I note that the committee, as it says, is not prepared to propose that a criminalisation of this behaviour be investigated.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-632	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Folk education is good and important. It enables us to increase our knowledge freely and voluntarily with others, learn more, and become even more educated. It strengthens us as individuals and develops us. We become independent citizens who contribute to Sweden's democratic development. Cultivation is a good force in society and for society, and it is also a good force for every individual. Folk high schools and study associations make society strong. It is therefore important to safeguard a broad public education and a constant increase in knowledge. I am convinced that all of us here in this Chamber have their own experience of adult education. We may have participated in a circle or attended a course at a study association or a folk high school. During the spring, I have visited some student associations and folk high schools in my county of Västernorrland and have seen and been impressed by courses and programmes that they conduct and see how both new arrivals and Swedes meet and acquire new knowledge together with others to strengthen and develop. Folkhögskolan och studieförbund is already making a major contribution in terms of integration and teaching in Swedish, and they will become even more important in the future. Madam President, I would like I can mention Härnösand folk high school, which in addition to general subjects has a sign language line and the only contact and interpreter education in Sweden. But they also have dance and music, to name a few trainings, and they have sfi and other courses for new arrivals with the aim of facilitating integration. I have also visited Örnsköldsvik folk high school, which of course also has general courses but which has also niched and has a theatre line and culture-creator course for adults with disabilities – a fantastic course. In Ö-vik you are also well there when it comes to health. You can study health and fitness coach – a future education with a holistic perspective on the whole person. I have also met representatives of the NBV, the Sobriety Movement's Formation activities, which today seem large in all our construction homes for new arrivals. You reach many new participating groups and work a lot with volunteers. Folkbildning thus contributes to both Swedish knowledge and integration. Sensus is another study association, and they work with short circles where participants with different backgrounds and levels of knowledge meet in conversation. It's a good way to get to know each other and break the segregation. Much of the activity takes place at local level – it can be in residential areas and not just in the municipality. What I have mentioned here, Madam President, is a small sample of what education can offer. There are ten study associations that work in all municipalities in Sweden, and there are 150 folk high schools spread over Sweden and with different specialisations, in addition to the common general courses they have. Folkhögskolan och studieförbund means a lot to newcomers in terms of education but also to understand how Sweden as a country works. What are the ways into our society, and what is the best way to go? It is necessary knowledge for those who are new in Sweden. It is therefore important that the important role of adult education in society is regularly evaluated and that the conclusions drawn and used are taken as the basis for a future education policy. The world is changing rapidly today. What's happening today is out of fashion tomorrow. Developments in technology and data, for example, are rapid. But society as a whole is changing, and this places new demands on us as citizens and as workers. We need to acquire new knowledge throughout our working life. This means that the peoples' education sector must change with its time and be part of lifelong learning. If it is, confidence in the education of people will be strengthened, which in turn means that more people will turn to study associations and folk high schools for learning. Folk education is important. It is important that we safeguard the broad general education and the increase in knowledge, but also all other courses and programmes, some of which I have mentioned before. We will guard our 150 folk high schools and our 10 study associations that spread knowledge and competence every day, every week and every year, and bring joy and knowledge to thousands upon thousands of people. I think there are about 1.7 million people participating in some form of circle in a year. That's an amazing number! The study associations make people grow and contribute to a good and democratic development of Sweden. This in turn makes Sweden strong.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-645	Madam President, I would like In this report we are dealing with issues relating to public education and the gambling market. In September 2015, the government commissioned a special investigator to submit proposals for a new gaming investigation with the aim of creating a gaming market with high security in the games, a high level of consumer protection and clear conditions to operate on the market. A high level of consumer protection requires regulation that takes social considerations into account, inter alia, the need for moderate marketing. The negative consequences of gambling shall be limited. The regulation of the licensing system shall be based on the fact that everyone on the Swedish gaming market shall have a competent authorisation and that operators without authorisation shall be excluded. It should also take account of technological and market developments, EU law and public health policy objectives. The Swedish gaming market faces major changes and challenges. Technology development has opened up the market and enabled foreign and illegal operators to easily deliver gaming and lottery services to the Swedish population. This makes it difficult to maintain the Swedish system, where the gambling market is in principle divided between the state and the non-profit sector. Profit-driven gaming companies outside Sweden's borders are now competing with Swedish gaming organisations, which often provide funds to civil society. These operators do not pay taxes and do not contribute to regrowth. In addition, foreign players often violate Swedish law through the use of intense gambling advertising and expansive marketing. Madam President, I would like The starting point of Sweden's democrats is to ensure national control of the gaming market, public health and the role of associations in the gaming market. Therefore, we have presented tools to secure and strengthen the Swedish gaming monopoly. At the same time, we are a pragmatic party and have therefore been in favour of an investigation. However, we believe that an investigation should be unconditional and investigate both a continued monopoly and a licensing system, and not just a licensing system. We are open to the outcome of the gaming investigation and its possibilities to provide tools for a strong, secure, reliable and sustainable gaming market. We hope that by either strengthening the gaming monopoly or implementing as secure a licensing system as possible, the state can minimise the risk of expansive marketing and intense gambling advertising that today risks leading people to excessive gambling and gambling addiction. At the same time, we want to protect Swedish society from the point of view of public health. We believe that the current system whereby large parts of the profits from gambling go to the association movement is good, and we want this system to continue to apply in the future. Gambling in Sweden should be safe and secure, and it should always be possible to trust that everyone plays on the same terms. The roots of Nordic and Swedish adult education can be sought in Denmark and in the social conservative aspirations of that time for a strengthened civic spirit and national community. The first formation circles in Sweden were formed in 1845. The first folk high schools opened in 1868, and a few years later they also received state aid. In their early years, the education of the people was crucial to the chances of the less well-off to reach education and personal development, which in turn was an important basis for the further process of democratisation. As a complement to the educational options of the public and as a road to social community and as a promoter of the desire to learn, peoples' education also today plays an important role in our society. It is therefore also important for the state and society to support this. At the same time, it is reasonable for recipients of state subsidies to meet certain minimum standards of quality and social welfare, not least out of respect for democracy and taxpayers' money. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, it is central that all tax-funded activities should comply with the democratic principles and maintain a high minimum level of quality. We therefore believe that there is a need for clearer directives and well-carried out checks and follow-up of the activities that have been granted aid. We therefore welcome Statskontoret's major quality review of the public education sector and look forward to the reports that will be presented. In modern language, education is often opposed to education. While the aim of education is a specific and limited professional competence, it aims to transform the whole human being. Formation can thus be defined as the development of personality and the cultivation of mental abilities, while education can include education but primarily refers to a process in which an individual systematically imparts knowledge and skills. By forming the people, they increase the opportunities for self-realization of the population and individuals, but also their ability to participate actively in the democratic processes of society. Peoples' education is therefore considered to have played an important role in the development of democracy. Finally, I would like to express my support for reservations 4 and 6.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-657	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I support both the reservations expressed by the Centre Party in Mrs KrU8's report, but I would like to vote in favour of reservation No 5 only. Civil society with associations, sport and education plays an incredibly large and important role in the development of society and democracy. It is often in the local association, in the network, in the local development groups and not least in study circles that a broad community commitment can emerge. Folkbildning, with the study associations and folk high schools that are located all over the country, in the country as well as in the city, becomes an important part of civil society. Folkbildning is an important player in raising and creating engagement in the public debate. Contacts with others and education are important in order to be able to orient themselves, shape independent perceptions and actively participate in society. The Center Party wants the individual to have the opportunity to develop. This development can take place in interaction with others. Not least important is it take for a person who has just come to a place – K anske as a refugee placed in a place you have never even heard of. There, activities organised by civil society may be even more important. The Center Party wants the individual to be allowed to develop through association with civil society and in meetings with other local people. The study associations are making a very important contribution here. It's about human education. It's not just education. There are also obstacles in the system. In the Center Party we always want to look at the individual and the individual's possibilities, regardless of whether the person in question has received a personal identity number or not and whether or not he or she will probably be allowed to stay in Sweden. But then, for example, the benefit system for study circles must also welcome these people. I want more people to have access to the study associations that can offer. At the same time, there is also great value in conveying the image of Swedish society early on and how it works to people who have moved to Sweden for whatever reason they have come to Sweden. Here, the study associations can also be given increased opportunities to work proactively with integration and then to a greater extent find ways to involve and raise the level of knowledge also among native Swedes. Madam President, I would like The study associations also play a very important role in providing opportunities for people with disabilities to create a platform to influence and participate on equal terms in our society. This can be done through cultural events and commitment to culture. It can also be done by passing on knowledge in different study circles. An e-xempel is the Adult School project My Election, which started before the 2014 election year and was aimed at people with non-lectual disabilities. The project My Choice developed knowledge, documentation and materials for study circles that supported and trained people with intellectual disabilities in taking part in and using their fellow citizens' right to vote. My choice helped to give some of our citizens in Sweden the opportunity to use their right to work on the society in which they live. It is now continuing with My choice in stud iecircles around our country so that more and more people can use and bring toe what this right means. Another right that is difficult to gain access to in today's society for those who, because of their disability, have attended a special school is the possibility of continuing to study after upper secondary school. It is really a question of having the opportunity at all to be able to choose and influence their career and future to some extent. This is an issue that has been addressed by the people in many places. In Stockholm, Sensus study association runs Medis 5, which works with theatre, film, music and art at a high level. Folkun inversity has the project Krita where art aims to create role models and give people with intellectual disabilities a richer life. And in Örebro, the Adult School has an exciting project, SV Kulturcollege, where the studies provide preparation for work or further studies. These are just a few examples of what there is. But, Madam President, there is also a risk that a project will stop being a project and that the knowledge and methodology that has been created will not be shared more than those involved in the project. This danger now exists with SV Kulturcollege. It is a project that shows that it is possible to create a confidence in the future for the individual and to provide opportunities for development even after upper secondary school. But what happens to SV Kulturcollege after the end of the project by summer we do not know today. Whose responsibility is the post-secondary education of those who attend special education? What is the freedom of choice and what is the opportunity for secondary school students? Is it the responsibility of the state, as it is for those who do not attend special education, that is the responsibility of the municipality? And how will a special school student finance his studies if neither activity compensation nor student loans are adapted to the specific conditions? The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. I know it is not entirely the responsibility of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, but it is, after all, a part of these questions that is still waiting for answers. SV Kulturcollege is important for the death of soot. Madam President, I would like Of course, folk high schools also play a vital role in adult education, not least for young people who need or want to find another way to acquire skills and education. Folk high schools also have a unique opportunity to meet people with disabilities in lifelong learning. At Mora f olkhögskola you can, for example, read custom IT. It is e n education aimed at a category of students who rarely or never get to be the centre of attention and feel independent. Unfortunately, it is still a project. And at Furuboda f olkhögskola in Åhus they strengthen the age of sport and music. But the questions I have already asked remain. Whose responsibility is the post-secondary education of those who attend special education? What is the freedom of choice and what is the opportunity for secondary school students? Is it the responsibility of the state, as it is for those who do not attend special education, that is the responsibility of the municipality? And how will a special school student finance his studies if neither activity compensation nor student loans are adapted to the specific conditions? I have given just a few examples here where peoples' education, through the study associations and folk high schools, makes an incredibly important contribution when giving knowledge, education and voice to often overlooked citizens in our society. S tudie circle may become a bow to something much larger, e n at first something that one might not have anticipated m one that gives more surface a dimension to formation one. But it could not happen unless peoples had their free role to find their own ways. It is precisely freedom and transparency that empowers peoples to meet each individual through education, where they stand to take up lifelong learning from there. The power of public education also lies in its existence throughout the country. Folk high schools and study associations' study circles and cultural arrangements exist not only in the cities but at least equally in the countryside and in smaller towns. Madam President, I would like The state is investing a lot of resources in peoples' education. That, in my opinion, is money well spent. Folkbildning, with the study associations and folk high schools, is an important player in raising and creating engagement in our society.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-678	Madam President, I would like The aim of the education policy is to give everyone the opportunity to increase their knowledge and education together with others for personal development and participation in society. We Christian Democrats want people to be strengthened in their faith in their own ability to develop and change their lives and to be able to influence and develop the society in which we all live. Peoples' education therefore has an important role to play in strengthening and developing democracy and enabling a greater diversity of people to influence their life situation and participate in social development. Furthermore, it is an important task for peoples' education to close educational gaps, raise educational and educational attainment levels in society and also to increase interest and participation in cultural life. When we talk about peoples' education, we usually mean the three legs on which we can say we rest. They are folk high schools, study associations and libraries. One of the finest things about folk high schools is that they can give people a second chance. Anyone who, for various reasons, did not complete his upper secondary education, who might not have had the motivation to study or come in the wrong company, has the opportunity to complete his education in a new context. During the past year many people went to Sweden, and we see that folk high schools and study associations can play an even greater role in language and community education. There, newly arrived people can be educated and also included in a social context. D they can have good conditions for language learning and for understanding how our society works. Folk high schools can be an important base in the work on language and integration. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention something about the issue of gambling. Since a plethora of online casinos have taken place at home in our living rooms recently, the Swedish gaming monopoly has in practice already ceased to work. We Christian Democrats are concerned about developments and believe that some form of licensing system should be introduced in our country. There should be great opportunities to find a way forward for it through a gambling investigation. Furthermore, we believe that some form of action should be taken to curb aggressive marketing and to promote the abuse of gambling that we see in the inonas web. In conclusion, I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 7 by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on regulating the gambling market.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-686	Madam President, I would like The report, as many have mentioned before, deals with peoples' education and gambling issues. I'll touch on the game issue briefly. There is an ongoing investigation to review the problem in the Swedish gaming market. The investigation will hopefully lead to a regulated market that allows most of the gaming companies that exist today to join the licensing system so that it becomes orderly. Hopefully the investigation will have some form of proposal ready before the end of the term of office. That's why the two reservations feel a little weird. We know that the Swedish Democrats really want a different system. But the Christian Democrats in their reservation basically say what we have proposed. There is also a parliamentary reference group. I therefore believe that we will come back to the debate on gambling policy later, when the investigation is completed. When it comes to education, it is one of all areas that the government highlights and strengthens and where it also delivers. For us Social Democrats, education is important. It contributes to building strong, independent peoples' movements. Strong peoples' movements where people organize themselves in everyday life are a foundation for a strong democracy. For a people's rule is best when it is worn by the majority of the people. Folk education is also a way of developing people and developing the country, both culturally, socially and economically. These two perspectives characterise the policy pursued by the Social Democratic-led government to strengthen education. That is why, among other things, we have invested in a knowledge boost, where we increase the number of training places in the country by over 80 000 during our term of office. People's education gets to take part in it. We invest because we know that people get jobs when they have the right skills, not because they are cheap. We also invest because we know that people can cope with transitions and challenges when they are given the chance to feel safe and see that they will do well as individuals, not when they are put into poverty. And we invest because we know that Sweden benefits from people in the country raising their level of education and competence, and thus we can assert ourselves internationally. The knowledge boost is the bridge between unemployment and self-sufficiency. This also leads to opportunities for the employer to obtain the right skills. We can see this now that unemployment is falling in our country. Folkbildning is an important part of the knowledge boost. At our folk high schools around the country, people regain faith in their own abilities. They get high school skills, and they get ways to go on in life. With the government's budget, the country's folk high schools receive 5 000 more places of education. Mr President, I would like to Folkbildning is the power of society, which we should be happy about. We should not least be happy for our study associations that conduct study, culture and education activities throughout the country, all the time. The ability of study associations to reach people with their organization in everything from the smaller towns to the larger cities and from north to south is unique. Likewise, the study associations' ability to organize themselves in the moment and to convert a true and living resource. In autumn 2015, when the number of asylum seekers in Sweden rose sharply, is a good example of this. In the spring change budget, the government had allocated SEK 30 million for the study associations to offer community introductions and language introductions to asylum seekers at the facility. The results of the gathering of strength that the study associations made impress. During the autumn, the study associations organised community introductions and language introductions for 70 000 people seeking asylum. So they reached 70 000 people throughout the country. A positive consequence of the efforts of the study associations is that many of those who were reached are much better placed to cope with SFIs. They may even skip some parts. Another positive result is that the study associations strengthen integration between locals and asylum seekers in a fantastic way. The committee visited Hello stranger! in Östersund and saw what power there is in the ability to meet with the help of the study associations. It's meetings between people. It is, of course, important for the individual to have meaningful and educational employment. Mr President, I would like to One perspective that is sometimes highlighted in the debate – often from the far right – is that the government forces the popular movement to take responsibility for integration. But those who say that do it against better judgment. It is a commitment that comes from the peoples' movements themselves. It comes from below, whether it is the sports movement, folk education or other peoples' movements. The only thing the state does is to contribute with economic conditions so that they can do more of what they are already doing. And the most common commentary from the popular movements is: We can and want to do more. That's the reality. To strengthen peoples' education in order to take advantage of people's own will for education, it is a very wise effort that interests itself several times over. And that's what the government does. That is also what the government is doing instead of reducing the tax on those who already have. Instead of reducing taxes, we are investing in a boost in knowledge. Instead of reducing taxes, we take responsibility for establishment and integration. Instead of reducing taxes, we are investing in the construction of societies that increase prosperity in welfare. Let's get on with it. Now we are increasing our efforts by 97 million to the student associations and folk high schools. The Moderates want to cut that budget by 200 million. When Sweden grows, then we will grow together.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-705	Mr President, I would like to Formation is not the same as education. Both are needed in society and for the individual. Of course, it is important to have professional competence so that you can get a job and make a living. But it is just as important for democracy and society that people form, develop and participate, that they are citizens in short. In these increasingly commercialized times, it is perhaps more important than ever that we remember this and strengthen the fundamental pillar of our society that civilisation is. Our human dignity tends to be reduced far too much to how commercially profitable and productive we are. What do all labels that you paste on people mean, for example, if you are employable or not? We humans are much more than cogs in a production and consumption machine. We are much more than customers and consumers. As I said, we are social, we are cultural beings and we are citizens. Folk education is an invaluable basis for all of this. And in these times, when many people come to Sweden, it has a particularly important role. Several people have been into this. Around the country, many important work is going on with all the good initiatives taken – often by civil society, often by educational associations – to receive, support and help newcomers to quickly enter Swedish society and learn Swedish. It is, as I said, priceless efforts for fellow human beings and for society at large. I do not need to repeat what has already been said. But I would like to add that these are, of course, win-win solutions. When ordinary people who already live in Sweden meet those who have recently come to talk about our country and help with Swedish benefit everyone. Everyone evolves when we get to know each other. That is why, of course, I think it is very good that the government is proposing substantial additions to the education of the people, for both study associations and folk high schools, in the spring amendment proposal so that more of this can be done, especially with a view to integration. I would also like to mention that it is obvious – but it deserves to be reminded – that people are different and need different forms of study. Anyone who for some reason has not been able to acquire upper secondary school skills as a young person is given a chance to obtain it on his own terms at a folk high school. This has been very successful. Many have had the chance to move on, get a job or continue to other educations. And now even more people will get it because the government is investing heavily in more places in folk high schools. It is excellent and much-needed. As I said, evaluation of activities is always important, especially when the activity is tax-financed. We need to know what is being done and how it goes, but we also need to have respect for the fact that everything cannot be described in simple measurable terms. It is excellent that the committee agrees that it should not anticipate Statskontoret's work in finding good forms for evaluating people's education. The result should be presented soon. I will not go into gambling issues, but I will leave them to my environmental party colleague Agneta Börjesson. Finally, I just want to say that education and culture must not be seen instrumentally as a tool for increasing growth, for improving health or for creating jobs, although all of this may be the result of education and culture. Formation has a value in itself that cannot be measured by numbers and letters on paper and in formal permissions. General education and community provide a good society. It's nice to talk about this. It's also fun that the government is betting. I look forward to a continued flourishing public education. As has been said, a great deal has happened recently to meet the demands of the motions that have been raised with legitimate comments that people must be able to participate in adult education even if they do not have a personal identity number and are new arrivals. But this is what the government has been dealing with, so the exercise is overplayed. I therefore call for all reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-718	Mr President, I would like to In this report, we in the Liberals do not have any specific requests, but we support the committee's proposal. Nevertheless, there are some elements that still need to be highlighted. Striving and education are two words that are rarely used in today's social debate. Yet two words are the real core of our open, democratic Sweden. For us liberals, these are the cornerstones of our policy and also of the construction of society – rigour and education. Folk education changes, but the importance of it remains. To give people progress, knowledge, exchange of experiences, cultural and other education is to give people power over their own situation. Mr President, I would like to Burning cars, refugees without faces crowded in barracks, burned-down refugee homes, net hatred, exclusion and segregation have become an almost natural part of the daily news flow in our country. It is a pity and basically a great departure from the traditions of conflict resolution that we have built up for more than a hundred years through strictness and education. It was the liberals of that time who were the driving force when the work that was to become part of the foundation of our democracy was created. The model was called folkbildning through folk high schools, study associations and lecture associations around our country. There young people were trained in democratic thinking. There, citizenship was born as a counterweight to violence as a conflict solver. And it laid the foundations for the peaceful development that we have seen after being one of Europe's worst warrior countries for hundreds of years. Let's not forget it. Mr President, I would like to Every individual born is an unwritten leaf. Thus every new generation is. The inheritance to be passed on cannot be lost without consequences. Surely one might think that the popular education that one could afford a hundred years ago must also have a prominent place in public budgets as a general article and not as a special solution and extra effort, as it now actually tends to be. In the spring bill it only means a move of the same money to another account, and we have a bet. In our view, Liberals, we have every reason to consider whether a narrowing of the basic breadth of peoples' education, as well-needed meeting places, is the right way to go. Perhaps it is still better to spend money on meeting places that build democracy for new generations than to take the cost of burning cars and current efforts for people who want nothing more than to join. You call it a bet when the same money is moved up. Mr President, I would like to The other day we were in the Culture Committee on a study visit to the refugee camp Grytan outside Östersund. It was the camp that became known to the nation when a group of refugees at Christmas in the middle of the night refused to leave the bus outside the camp. It was an event that very precisely focused on all the problems that too fast and unplanned handling of people can lead to. This can lead to the disappearance of the human being and be replaced by a package in a logistical problem to be solved. I myself was extremely moved by the encounter with the people who have escaped from all their search for security. Now it was they who made me feel warm welcome home to them, in the middle of the forest in an old military barracks environment that can easily be described as meager. But we were met by something quite different: warmth, light, and humanity. During the visit to the camp we met – as Peter just described – both accommodation and the fantastic initiative Hello stranger! It is an association that works completely non-profit to activate both business and civil society in the reception on site. The association organises a variety of cultural and sports activities and creates bridges into Swedish society. The basis is that no one can do everything, but everyone can do something, everyone can contribute. Recently became Hi stranger! very well deservedly appointed Swedish heroes. What is going on there, Mr President, is that it is basically rigour and education that matter in reality, that is what we met at Grytan. I was almost moved to tears when we got back to the bus. A few short minutes of conversation, a few quick handshake at the time of shooting when we left the facility and eyes will remain on my retina for a long time. It was a meeting with people, not with a package of refugees. Mr President, I would like to For the Liberals, the way forward is very clear. There is a need for more education and rigour as a kitt between people.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-731	Mr President, I would like to Last term of office I was a substitute for the Committee on Culture, so I feel quite at home in these debates. Now I get to come once a year and talk game politics. It always feels just as good. This time, the Culture Committee's report No 8 has merged peoples' education issues with gaming policy, and it is fantastic to follow the debate that you have on peoples' education issues and in which Annika Lillemet from the Green Party participates. But I shall therefore stick to the field of gaming policy. I think it's very fun to work with gaming policy right now, as it's finally starting to move around in politics too. The gaming market changed over a large number of years with technological developments, which many have talked about. There are very many unregulated companies in the EU area, and they offer services to Sweden. These companies are investing large amounts of advertising to gain market share. But for many years nothing happened in practice in the political field. Therefore, I am very pleased that the current government has set up a gambling investigation. In addition, evidence has been developed that will lead to a bill on gambling addiction issues this spring. This too is very much awaited. New assignments have been given to the National Institute of Public Health to develop knowledge support on gambling problems. New targets have been set to reduce harm and consider the need for more follow-up systems, for example in the case of various forms of injury and suicide. A new and very broad population study has also been launched within the framework of Swelog. 21,000 people are included in the study. This spring they will present a first result that will be exciting to take part of. There has long been a very broad majority in the Swedish parliament to get order and order in the gaming market. The gaming investigation has now started and got a competent investigator in Håkan Hallstedt, Director General of the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate. Like many others, they have been given a good political reference group and an expert group. That is why this motion for a resolution rejects all the sports. That is quite reasonable, since the gaming investigation has now been set up. It will work on the vast majority of the issues highlighted in the motion report. Nevertheless, I would like to say a few words about things that are not highlighted very much in the Gaming investigation, but which are actually highlighted in the report. The type of computer games that, according to today's legislation, is to compare with board games, what we call a "gaming" as opposed to a "gambling" game, can also have very large cultural values. They can tell an artistic and complicated story at least as much as a feature film. There is a small assignment at the Royal Library to store certain games, game consoles and so on. Other types of computer games may resemble sports. They have big elements of competition and draw large hordes of both participants and spectators, or they can be very similar to games of money. It may be that you get very fast profits in a different form than money but buy themselves big benefits with money, so that it is still quite big money involved. Above all, this is similar to a lot of other businesses that are currently doing very well and where you constantly need new and well-trained developers. So there is every reason to focus on this area of computer games. I therefore hope that in the future we can have more structures looking at both the dangers and opportunities of computer games and that from politics we can find some form of residence for them, if it is to be in the fields of culture, industry, sport or other gambling. But today, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-741	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to deal with the Culture for All report, which deals with 20 general exercise sessions. There is also an announcement to the government regarding experience and research on culture and health. The Alliance government took a series of measures to promote the development of culture and cultural work around Sweden. The cooperation model that came into force in 2009, a model for allocating state resources to regions and municipalities, has proved to be very successful. This is particularly true of all the cultural creators, associations and decision-makers who have expressed their views in the evaluation carried out by the Committee on Culture in autumn 2015. The reform has increased the influence of regional and local authorities. But there are some suggestions for improvements, including on dialogue between national politicians and local and regional politicians. It has also been seen that new activities have not received funds. There's work going on. Culture contributes in many ways to our well-being. Research shows that it is of great importance to our health. The announcement to the government is about taking advantage of research and proven experience in the design of a future cultural policy. People who participate in cultural life have better health and live longer. The Alliance government devoted research money every year between 2006 and 2008 specifically for research on culture and health. A centre for culture and health was also established at the University of Gothenburg. It highlights research that shows that people who participate in cultural life have better health and live longer. Culture is of great importance for creativity and innovation as well as for brain healing processes after, for example, a stroke. The Nordic Council of Ministers has put forward proposals for Nordic cooperation on the importance of culture for health. A dissertation at the University of Gothenburg shows that culture provides quality of life in the form of important social, cultural and health-related values. We believe that this broader way of valuing culture should be given greater consideration when deciding on cultural initiatives. In 2011, the National Council for Culture was tasked by the Government to allocate funds to promote people's participation in cultural life through cultural experiences as well as through their own creation. All healthcare providers were given the opportunity to apply for a grant. The experience of these projects is very good. They have involved an investment in culture for the elderly. The Alliance government invested over 100 million more, and we want continued efforts on a project like the school's with creative elderly care. Under the alliance government, cooperation with regions and county councils on culture was also started as a tool to prevent sick leave, Culture on prescription. It is a matter of prioritising right when resources are limited. It is also the taxpayers' money we use. What kind of cultural initiatives have we seen for everyone? The government initiatives that are often put forward are aimed primarily at children and young people, or perhaps their parents, who do not have to pay part of the music school fee. They are also aimed at adults who can take themselves to museums and tourists who bring themselves here. On this, SEK 180 million will be spent in what the government puts forward as a major venture. For us, it is important for cultural life to benefit the elderly. Older residents in nursing and nursing homes usually have no opportunity to take part in the cultural offering that exists, but depend on the culture coming to them. In this case, as is clear to the reader of the report, the government believes that it is a municipal matter to ensure that the elderly receive culture. Here you have a completely different opinion from the municipal music school. The one if someone is a municipal operation. Here parents receive a reduction in their contribution or a free school, while the elderly remain in their retirement home. There are many good examples of how people and businesses work to increase elderly people's access to and access to visits. This applies, for example, to many private museums. There is cooperation with the Demensförbundet that arranges screenings for people with dementia diagnosis and their relatives. There are private museums that bring culture to the elderly who do not go to the museum themselves. These are good initiatives which, unfortunately, are made more difficult by the government's free-access reform, which provides only one-sided subsidies to state museums. Culture also contributes greatly to jobs and growth. Creative industries account for a large part of the industries that are growing. It is industries that also contribute to regional development. We can see this in Sunne with Selma Lagerlöf's home, in Vimmerby with Astrid Lindgren's World, and in Gustavsberg where Artipelag is today the largest employer. If we really want to promote growth and ensure that existing businesses grow, it is perhaps not a single contribution to culture that is the most important thing but to ensure that the opportunities for operating activities are improved. Of crucial importance for all types of companies are the size of employers' contributions, taxes, regulatory issues, procurements, neutral competitive conditions, and so on. For example, we want to investigate production discounts for film production. This could be a way to attract interest in filming in Sweden. It is 17 countries within the EU that have such discounts. They are thus more attractive choices to choose to film in. Sweden is elected there. We also need to cooperate more across committee and departmental boundaries as many challenges span several areas. For cultural creators and entrepreneurs, taxes matter, as I said earlier. This applies to exports and trade as well as to education. What's the government doing? In any case, the Arts Council has no new means to manage culture for the elderly. In order to create opportunities, see private initiatives and workplaces that are emerging, they are made more difficult for them and benefit only government and municipal activities with more funding. The government even chooses which culture people should afford to have access to. It is free for families to enter Moderna Museet, but you increase the fees for cinema, for example. It also makes it impossible to establish and invest. It is boring when you see so many entrepreneurs starting music schools, museums, theatres or cultural centres that all contribute to a rich cultural life in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for reservations 2 and 5 and otherwise for the committee's proposals in the report.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-760	Mr President, I would like to In our last autumn budget, we had a common thread with a series of public health initiatives. I think we all want to do well. That you feel good when you take part in or are part of the culture we all know about. It is no coincidence that you use culture in rehabilitation, for example. Today we are dealing with the Culture for All report, and that is what we verige democrats have emphasised in our autumn budget – culture for all. It should not matter if you are young or old, healthy or ill. Everyone shall have access to and access to cultural activities as far as possible. In our reservation 3, we write about the elderly's right to culture. Unlike other groups in society, our elderly have experienced a steady deterioration in their living conditions. Hundreds of thousands of Swedish pensioners have been forced to live on a monthly income that is on or just above the poverty line. How can they buy a movie ticket, a theatre ticket or pay a tuition fee? The Swedish democrats' view is that welfare should extend through all life's events. This development must therefore be reversed as soon as possible. That is why we are proposing a series of measures to facilitate the life and everyday life of our elderly. Mr President, I would like to I remember when my grandmother ended up in a retirement home. From the safety of her home with her beloved cat, she ended up in a dwelling with strangers. It quickly became apparent that social relations were not the same, and my grandmother enjoyed her life less and less. The fact that our elderly who have served our country are forced to live so is not acceptable. Social relations play an extremely important role and the older we get. Without it, we'll fade away. Initially, I mentioned that we all feel good about participating in and being part of the culture. Culture can give meaning to life and give birth to joy of life. Here you all have a concrete example of what happens when we take note of it. That is why we invest in our budget in culture in care and care for the elderly. Culture in health care already exists in Norway, and we can see that it works. In Norway, funds have been distributed via The Cultural Spaserstokken. The aim of the initiative is to manage high-quality art and cultural communication to the elderly, provide the conditions for increased cooperation between culture and the health and social care sector and ensure that a wide range of cultural offerings are available to the elderly in their everyday lives. We want to see similar activities in Sweden. Creating elderly care is growing in our municipalities, and this is gratifying. The idea of creating care for the elderly is that culture should follow man through life. For the same reason, we believe that culture plays an important role early in our lives. That's why we have our investment in creative school. With creative care for the elderly, we want to ensure that everyone is offered as much as possible cultural activities. We therefore believe that this initiative should be structured at national level. I request the approval of reservation 3. Mr President, I would like to With regard to our motivational reservation, I should like to comment briefly on the fact that it is for reasons of principle that we have this. We do not believe in a multicultural society. It has not worked, and it probably never will. We must begin to accept that all countries have their own unique culture. Starting to confuse different cultures and hope that it creates a community and a recognition factor for each other is nothing but naive. We verige democrats give priority to cohesion. It is with cohesion that we have managed to build our well-being, and it is with cohesion that we shall maintain it. I'm behind the motive reservation, but I'm not in favour of it for time-winning.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-770	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support all of the joint reservations of the Centre Party and the Alliance, but I choose here to ask only for the approval of reservation No 1. Mr President, I would like to We need culture to live. Culture has its own value. A cultural life where everyone is welcome and can participate is an important force for a society that stays together in the long term. For me and the Center Party, it is therefore important and essential that culture is just accessible. I would like to define it as being supported by three legs of accessibility to culture. It should not matter if you have a disability. It should not matter what social or economic situation you live in. It shouldn't matter where you live in the country. Culture should be there for everyone. Culture should be possible for everyone. The report we are debating is precisely entitled Culture for All. Then it is also important that culture reaches everyone in our vast country. Sweden is a sandwich table with a wide range of different cultural experiences. At the same time, there is great value in highlighting large and smaller cities in the spotlight of culture. Umeå was the European Capital of Culture 2014, European C api speech of Culture. This is what Umeå – but also the region, as well as the whole of Sweden – put on the European cultural map. How can we build on it? One way to create continued national and international interest in our cultural life is to establish a national Capital of Culture year, as proposed by the Center Party. The Center Party's idea of a national cultural capital is that a Swedish city gets the status of being a national capital of culture every two years. Then smaller cities can also get attention and the chance to show off and especially develop their cultural life. This idea already exists in Britain. It sought to continue to work on success one when Liverpool was the European Capital of Culture in 2008. The success there was also evident in the social and economic development of the region. It was then decided to allow a city in the UK to become a national cultural centre every four years. We can thus see that a rich cultural life helps to create an attractive environment to live and operate in and thus also better conditions for local and regional development. Creating a national Capital of Culture in Sweden would highlight exciting cultural experiences across the country. Cities such as Säffle, Haparanda and Lidköping would have the opportunity to showcase and develop their cultural life. The mission as a national capital of culture would provide a vitamin injection into society while contributing to tolerance and entrepreneurship, as well as to local and regional development, as well as strengthening Sweden on the international cultural map. Mr President, I would like to Culture plays a major role in our society. I would say that culture is an inalienable part of human life. Therefore, culture is also an important task for society. Here the cultural cooperation model is an important engine for developing culture in the whole country. With a good dialogue and cooperation within the region, cultural life also has a boost. Culture is also an important development potential, not least in terms of regional growth, which we have talked about in the past. Sweden currently has a global top position when it comes to creative industries. It is something we should be proud of and at the same time make sure to develop further. Mr President, I would like to In short, there is potential throughout the country, and there is considerable competence in the field of culture across the country. At the same time, today there is a lot of national expertise in big cities, mainly in our capital. It makes us miss out on a lot of talent and creativity in the country that should benefit more people. It's not very holeable. In order for more people to be able to take part in, participate in and develop culture, we should find a new model that makes us highlight excellence where it is located in the country. As I see it, this should be done in cooperation between the regions and the state, perhaps through a new model of national cultural policy. Why not a model that builds on the ideas that have made the impact model successful? So I am talking about a model of cultural cooperation for the national level, in which, in addition to the regions and municipalities, with its politicians and officials, also the professional culture, as well as the voluntary cultural activities throughout the country, are given the opportunity to participate, participate and influence national cultural policies. Everything of national interest doesn't have to be in Stockho lm, does it? For example, why can Dalhalla not become a national summer scene for the Royal Opera? Dalhalla is one of Europe's most extensive outdoor arenas for opera and is also one of the world's most beautiful outdoor arenas. It must still be a perfect environment for the Royal Opera during a summer month, right? This is something I am convinced that both Sweden and the art of opera would benefit from. More examples can be found around our country. But it is not primarily me or us here in the R Iksdagshuset in Stockholm who will produce those proposals. As I said, it is all over the country that the profession and knowledge exist, and that is where it should be highlighted. But it is not just the big scene that should be highlighted. If we look around, we can see that there are what we can call dead, empty spaces, not least in our urban environments, which would be more vibrant but also feel more secure if they were to be filled with cultural activities. For example, the Center Party here in Stockholm has proposed opening up and offering unused spaces in the city to cultural creators. It would create new arenas for cultural creators, as well as a more attractive and safer city. Mr President, I would like to As I began with, I support all the reservations of the Center Party and the Alliance. But for time winning I choose here to claim only consent to reservation 1.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-785	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support reservation 4 under paragraph 2, but of course I also support our joint alliance reservation 5 under paragraph 3. Mr President, I would like to When we say a culture for everyone, one might wonder whether we really mean it from the heart, basically. Of course, everyone has the right to culture. Everyone should have the opportunity to participate themselves in cultural life. This is one of the objectives of national cultural policy. We use those words quite often, at least in our committee. However, we know that many older people find it difficult for a number of reasons to take part in cultural life in the everyday life in which they live. We also know that they find it difficult not only to participate but also to create themselves. We also know that active and culturally rich life has positive health effects. And yet we talk more than we do. A social context contributes to an increased sense of well-being, meaning and so on. Recent brain research shows how cultural activities positively affect brain functions. You can even see it on a magnetic camera image. You can see the impact of culture – it's fantastic! A number of research reports go beyond that. Today we know that culture is important for health and well-being, also as a complement to traditional care and medicine. The previous speaker has been on the same theme. A large number of projects are being carried out in several parts of the country, which are being made permanent in many places. That's great. However, there is an imminent risk that these elements, now that the specific funding that has been with the Culture Council over time no longer exists, will be given priority and ongoing projects will disappear. Let us really hope that this does not happen. But unfortunately, hope is all we can. We have not given the Arts Council a mandate. Mr President, I would like to I would like to raise the issue of culture for the elderly from a different perspective, what is in Barbro Westerholm's motion, and point out that we in Sweden have a gap between the generations. As our society has become more and more individualized, the interfaces between young and old have become increasingly blurred, and we see a society that, from this point of view, can be said to drift apart in a way. The points where experiences are shared are becoming fewer and fewer as you move further apart and so on. This has positive but also negative effects. There is a great risk that important experiences and a lot of history will be lost for future generations, as the contact areas are not there naturally. Every human being has invaluable information and experience about our present and our history. There are today, Mr President, more people in Sweden who have turned 100 years of age than ever before. It's really positive. Imagine when I was young – that's what some think is in heathhill's time, while I think it's pretty recent! When I was young, a 100-year-old's birthday was a big thing that was noticed at home on the front page of the local newspaper, with pictures and stories. It was a solid report every time, describing the person, the person's life, the time the person had lived and the social development from that person's perspective over these hundred years. By taking advantage of their life experience, the kitchen table was able to pass on knowledge and insights to a younger generation, that is, to me, which at the same time strengthened the relationship between me and Mom and Dad. In many ways this is completely gone. I haven't seen such a front page story in years. Maybe it's in some little country magazine somewhere, but I don't know. One reason why it is gone is gratifying enough that we are now 100 years old. There's nothing strange about turning 100. In a few years, about half of those born will experience their 100th birthday. Then the so-called news value is completely gone. Another reason, of course, is our changing view of aging. We become, as it were, younger than our actual age. Mr President, I would like to By doing so, we risk losing something priceless. Human experience and vital parts of our history risk being lost forever. One solution could be that the Swedish Arts Council is tasked with coordinating and initiating cooperation projects between museums and others documenting the life history of 100-year-olds. Because they're amazing stories. These life stories can then be available and disseminated through various media, be available as exhibitions and be able to serve as educational material for children and young people in comprehensive school and upper secondary school. I think we all remember the history lessons that were exciting when they came to life, when they were about a human history and not just about a royal name, a year, some fog somewhere and a horse falling. There was something else when there was flesh and blood behind. These are the stories that are important to our future. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 4. Mr President, I would like to Finally, more and more people are emphasising the role of culture and its importance for social development, regional development and growth. Culture's meaning-creating role has been filled in recent years with both cultural economic and regional policy analyses, and this is great. It shows every time success stories. It shows that growth benefits from culture. For us Liberals, Mr President, politics is connected. Increased employers' contributions are hitting culture and cultural industries, in particular by significantly increasing costs, but also by reducing people's tendency to consume culture when economic space is also reduced. Cultural policy must not be reduced to a competition for who makes the most contributions. Culture is part of a whole and should also be put into a larger political context. For us liberals, it goes without saying that culture is also part of growth and regional development.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-799	Mr President, I would like to According to national cultural policy objectives, culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. Everyone should have the opportunity to participate, and creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of both culture and society. The Christian Democrats want us to continue to develop a modern cultural policy. There, the freedom of culture has its own value, but we also want to link it to the rest of society and see that it is part of what can provide jobs and growth. Various cultural expressions can, for example, be attractions for Swedish tourism and tourism. It is pleasing enough something that we have seen has grown and developed in recent years. I live in a coastal municipality, Öckerö municipality, which in itself has visitors because we have nice baths, restaurants and other things. But I would like to highlight another point that has developed in recent years. We have experienced a great influx when, during a weekend in August, our artists have opened their studios and gardens to the public for several years. Then you can come and see and buy their work. An event like this – Konstvågen – also contributes to the municipality's other growth, and it becomes an attraction in itself. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to endorse reservation 5 on the role of culture in growth.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-803	Mr President, I would like to We notice that culture is something that engages us all, and everyone speaks warmly about it. That makes us sitting in this Chamber today very happy. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the KrU10 report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Culture for all is about culture that affirms and generates inspiration and new ideas. Culture is about us being good and creative in order to make it easier to create new solutions and new opportunities, but also to help create new jobs. Culture is very important to society. This report deals with a great deal of exercise. Many of the motions highlight the importance of culture, and we have heard it in the debate here. Culture is important in many different areas such as health and growth. If we link culture, health and sport or culture and business, we can get a very exciting result. Let me give you an example. The committee visited last Monday's Östersund football club. They use culture as a method of training and a method of success. They use culture to create team spirit and to strengthen the individuals in the team. It's a success project. As a result, Östersund's football club is now playing in Allsvenskan. Many questioned this, but we were quite convinced when we were there listening. Culture continues to be at the heart of Östersund's football club. On September 3, it is time to give a sound concert with the football club. It is certainly exciting, and we in the Committee on Culture were very impressed. But culture also has its own value. We Social Democrats believe that all people should have the right and the opportunity to take part in culture but also to practise culture. We see culture as a strong force that helps to create meaning and cohesion in our society. It is also of great importance to our health and well - being. There are several speakers who have underlined it. Culture is really part of our community-building. What we in the Committee on Culture also learned when we visited Jämtland, and which Bengt Eliasson so exemplaryly talked about earlier, was how important culture is to health. We visited, as Bengt Eliasson said, Grytan's asylum home, where the asylum seekers formed a great singing choir with the help of the organization Hello stranger! After driving practice with asylum seekers for a while, it turned out that many of our new friends in this asylum home did not need to take sleeping pills or antidepressants. They were feeling better. It was enough with the song, dance and fellowship as Hi stranger! helped them create, and they felt so much better. The Culture Committee looks forward to tomorrow's home game for Östersund's football club, because then Grytan's choir is in the gallery and surprises the team. I think it's cool to see what role culture plays. When we see and take note of such experiences, the Committee on Culture considers it important that we take advantage of the research that exists on the subject of culture and health precisely in the formulation of future cultural policy. That's good. We should not have less culture; we should have more culture, and more. The government has therefore not only invested in introducing free admission into our state museums but also provided additional funding for the cultural cooperation model, which gives effect in our municipalities and county councils. However, it is important that we follow developments closely, because regional variation is very great. We can see that. An important element that our evaluation group really emphasises is precisely the dialogue between the national level and the regional level. It should be further developed. The possibility for older people to participate in cultural activities is very important. Here, too, public health is being strengthened by active cultural life. The study circle and the education of the people are of great importance to the elderly. The municipalities and county councils also have a great responsibility here to affirm older people's participation in cultural life. The regulatory letters to our state cultural institutions also describe that the institutions should be visible and be a matter for the whole of Sweden, not just the place where they are located. Here I would particularly like to highlight the Swedish Theatre, which provides fantastic performing arts experiences throughout Sweden. Digitalization of our cinemas is also important when it comes to increasing access to culture. This applies mainly to the film medium, but also to the stage productions via digitalisation. Mr President, I would like to With the closing words, I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-814	Mr President, I would like to Agneta Gille says in the debate that everyone has the right to take part in culture and practice culture. My question is once again what the government intends to do. Do the Social Democrats have any proposal to give cultural money to the elderly? The priority that we see today and that the Minister for Culture is proud of is that I and other Danderyds people should have free music school for our children. I'll also be able to go into the museum for free. However, we do not see this investment in culture for the elderly, but it is a priority for that group. It's very strange for me when there are elderly and ill people in nursing homes who can't get to culture themselves. Is there any government intervention? Does the Social Democrat have any idea about that?
i-8bd884e864ce0043-816	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Isabella Hökmark that there is an incredible amount of work done for the elderly in our municipalities and county councils. There is culture, and there are very good examples. We have Gothenburg, for example, where culture is really brought in – where culture comes to retirement homes. So there is this business, and I hope Isabella Hökmark reads a little better from the point of view that it is really the case that there are opportunities to take part in the culture. However, we also have a collaborative model in which we try to spread culture and in which we set aside funds. The bourgeois opposition, however, says no to investments in and increased contributions to the development of the model of collaboration that could provide additional funding to municipalities and county councils in order to give the opportunity for more older people to participate. So I hope Isabella Hökmark can come with us. We have examples from Gothenburg, where we can look at how the culture really exists in retirement homes.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-818	Mr President, I would like to I'm doing my homework. The report states that it is a municipal matter to ensure that there is culture for the elderly, but in another report it is a state matter with the municipal music school. That is what I find very strange, so that you give priority to spending money on reducing the fees for children and adults but not spending money on the elderly. However, I would like to come to another point. Our joint colleague and Agneta Gilles's party colleague Peter Johnsson spoke about refugee camps, and so did Agneta Gille – about Grytan's asylum accommodation. I have a completely different idea after being there. I saw that what was done there, by everyone, and what made it work were private initiatives. It was only private initiative I saw – which I think is fantastically good. There was talk of a choir there, and it was a private music school that had started it – an entrepreneur. He did not receive any subsidies from the municipality. They were so happy in Östersund, because it was 400 SEK in fee. He had 3,000 in fees for his music school, because he had to run it himself. However, there were a lot of children there. He had started this project himself, and I think that's fantastic. But how do you ensure that these people continue to operate and that the activities exist? Do you see opportunities disappear when you raise taxes? Do the Social Democrats think, for example, that it is a good proposal to investigate production discounts for the film? We can see there that Sweden is not chosen because we have too high taxes here. Instead, it is addressed to other EU countries. So I wonder if you see these private entrepreneurs, who add so much to cultural life. There is not a penny from the taxpayer, but they collect it from the private business community and add it to it.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-822	Mr President, I would like to It's so amazing. We have discussed civil society in the past, and I wonder if Isabella Hökmark has heard of it. We have really highlighted civil society, and we have set aside funds for civil society. Hey, stranger! is also part of civil society. Together with private actors, municipalities, county councils and civil society, we have succeeded extremely successfully. As Peter Johnsson said, 70 000 people have been reached through the education of the people, precisely because we have set aside support. Did the Moderates support that commitment? Was it that you helped to ensure that there would be more funds to distribute to the public education, Isabella Hökmark? Is it so that we can see that you have contributed to increasing the resources for the reception of asylum? We could read today that the reception of asylum should not receive any resources from the Moderates. Then you stand here accusing us of not doing enough. I think it's very strong. I have to say, I'm getting a little upset. We have indeed set aside funds, and we are making sure that we set aside funds in the budget. We ensure that civil society gets the resources they need. They've been on their knees for a long time, and they've had an extremely tough job, but they've done it. As far as education is concerned, we have provided resources that have provided support and help. We met asylum accommodations that were fine. I am very proud of the work being done.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-825	Mr President, I would like to The Culture for All report gives reasons for the name. The report deals with the question of how cultural activities can really be made available to everyone, from different perspectives. An important part of the report concerns the model of cultural cooperation. The Committee on Culture has carried out an analysis of how the model has worked in practice, and the conclusions are that the model has many advantages but also shortcomings. The government is therefore currently working on proposals for how the model can be further developed, including on the basis of the Culture Committee. I hope that the Riksdag will decide on further initiatives for cultural cooperation in the future. It is, of course, also a budget question of the amount of the appropriations. Mr President, I would like to A united Committee on Culture supports the proposal for an announcement to the government to take advantage of research into and proven experience in culture and health. Cultural activities have evidence-based and demonstrated positive effects on health, which several have been concerned with. Among other things, it is documented that participation in choral singing affects health positively, and we got a fantastic example from the asylum accommodation in Grytan. The fact is that choral singing is supposed to be one of the things that gives the most well-being of everything you can do or, if you want to put it that way, one of the most fortunate things you can do. This kind of positive effect should, of course, be taken into account. At the same time, we must be careful how we express ourselves. Culture should be given conditions based on itself, not to achieve other goals. We must never adopt an instrumental culture view. I therefore call for a rejection of the alliance parties' reservation on the importance of culture for economic growth. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are making a new attempt with proposals for cultural money. The proposal comes up at regular intervals and could at first sight appear to be positive, which is why it is important to clarify the disadvantages of any proposal whereby citizens are given a penny to then use their own main cultural activities which they find most interesting. And there are several reasons for this. Firstly, there is no doubt that the costs of different types of activities differ significantly. An activity with a high cost per person in the audience, such as the Opera, has no chance of surviving in a cultural money system. Secondly, the task of culture is not only to iron out with hair and amuse but, on the contrary, to challenge and worry. Systems that give a very clear reward to audience-taking activities also offer less opportunities for the culture that questions and dares to challenge the audience. Thirdly, a cultural money system is a threat to cultural diversity. Imagine a library that only buys best-selling books. On one level, it may seem rational to provide the books that most people want to read. But then a day comes when you want to have access to an odd book in an unpopular subject, and then it is not available in the library. It's about democracy. The strength of the library is the breadth, diversity and that narrow literature is also available, not only the books you can easily find elsewhere. The same approach applies in cultural policy as a whole. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-838	Mr President, I would like to The issue we are now going to debate is the implementation of the revised directive on explosives. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Social Democrats and the Green Party's reservation. Sweden must harmonise national legislation on making available on the market and monitoring of explosives for civil use, the revised explosives directive, with the other EU countries. According to a Directive adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 26 February 2014, which entered into force on 18 April 2014, harmonisation is to be implemented by 19 April 2016. The Government proposal 2015/ 16:94 proposes the legislative amendments deemed necessary for the implementation of the Directive in Swedish law. What is the current situation, Mr President? In November 2015, the Government commissioned an investigator to review the penal provisions of the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods, abbreviated LBE, and to submit proposals for constitutional changes. The starting point for the investigation was the changes to the penal provisions of the Arms Act that entered into force on 1 September 2014 and the consideration of general criminal law principles on, inter alia, proportionality and equivalence. The background to the mission is reported to be the large number of explosions that have occurred in criminal contexts where, among other things, hand grenades have been used. Items other than hand grenades are also covered by the provisions on flammable and explosive goods, such as dynamite and other explosives. It is important that society intervenes effectively and effectively against illicit practices involving flammable and explosive goods, underlines the government. The government also believes that an unlawful procedure involving, for example, hand grenades, mines or other explosives can be a dangerous and punishable act as the more serious cases of unlawful proceedings involving firearms. The same considerations on the basis of which the penalties for weapons offences imposed were tightened also apply to the unlawful proceedings covered by the provisions of the LBE. Today, legislation is designed so that hand grenades are classified as explosives and not as weapons. There is, of course, every reason to review the regulations and to investigate whether hand grenades should be classified differently from today, thereby making it easier for customs to stop entry and for the police and the judiciary to prosecute those who use such things in criminal contexts. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats in the Committee on Defence share the concern that the criminal use of explosives, such as hand grenades, has increased in society. This type of grosser violence creates insecurity both short-term and long-term in society. It is a type of violence that strongly signals danger and can arouse social insecurity. Like the government, we in the S Group and the Green Party in committee believe that it is important for society to be able to intervene effectively and effectively against the illicit use of hand grenades and other flammable and explosive goods. The government's initiative to investigate how the penal provisions of the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods should be changed is to be welcomed by us. It is important that a stronger view of such a crime is reflected in the criminal provisions of the LBE and that these provisions are fully in line with those of the current Arms Act. Mr President, I would like to As the investigation has just submitted a partial report, and its mission also to review the Customs Agency's powers under the so-called Internal Borders Act is not yet clear, we believe that the government's preparation of the matter should not be pre-empted. That is precisely why, Mr President, we have the joint S and MP reservation.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-849	Mr President, I would like to Today we have to deal with the government proposal for the recast directive on explosives. The Swedish regulations for explosives are mainly contained in the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods. The aim of the Act is to prevent, prevent and limit accidents and damage to life, health, environment and property that may arise from fire or explosion caused by flammable or explosive goods. The Act also aims to prevent the unauthorised use of flammable and explosive goods and applies to the handling, transfer and import of flammable and explosive goods, as well as to the preparatory measures necessary to take account of the risk of fire and explosion. The revised Directive, which gives rise to this proposal, does not change the scope and the essential protection requirement of the previous explosion goods directive, but mainly aims to adapt the previous explosion goods directive to a decision within the EU on a common framework for the marketing of such products. In this proposal, the Government proposes that the law explicitly regulates the export of explosives subject to authorisation and that economic operators who do not take physical position with explosives should also be subject to the prudential requirement. We support this. Mr President, I would like to In this matter there is also a motion by the bourgeois opposition. Concerns are expressed that the criminal use of explosives, such as hand grenades, has increased in society. I share this concern and, like the government, believe that it is important for society to be able to intervene effectively and effectively against the illicit use of hand grenades and other flammable and explosive goods. The government's initiative to investigate how the penal provisions of this Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods should be changed is therefore to be welcomed. The most important thing is that a stronger view of such crime is reflected in the penal provisions and that these provisions are in line with those of the current Arms Act. As the inquiry into this has just submitted a partial report and its task of also reviewing the Customs Agency's powers under the so-called Internal Borders Act is not yet clear, I believe that the government's preparation of the matter should not be pre-empted. I therefore propose that all motions for resolutions be rejected in accordance with our reservation, which I would also like to endorse.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-855	Mr President, I would like to The previous speaker has described the changes caused by the government's proposal. With regard to the concrete proposals, the Alliance has no other comments. It is remarkable that we have had legislation that neither in terms of the powers of our authorities nor in terms of the sanctions that can result from unlawful handling equates, for example, hand grenades and tank mines with regular weapons. It is correct that both Peter Jeppsson and Jakop Dalunde have explained that an investigation is now being carried out, which in its first interim report has ensured that the penalty rates for hand grenades, for example, are in line with those for military weapons. It is good that the interim report has come, and I imagine that the whole committee is behind this. The whole committee will also do so when it comes to what is to be reported in the final report of the investigation that the Customs Agency's powers under the Internal Borders Act should be reviewed so that imports from another EU country to Sweden can also be controlled. Mr President, I would like to I have some experience in public investigations. I know from experience that many public investigations do not lead to legislation but disappear in an almost eternal preparation within the Government Office. For this reason, the majority in the committee wants to seize the opportunity that Parliament has to put pressure on the government on this important issue. The only thing I can say when I listen to Peter Jeppsson's and Jakop Dalundes's obstinate opposition to the parliament using its power in this context is that I feel a concern. I do not understand why we do not want to use this power and put pressure on the government in this. I assume that what is said, that we want to achieve the same thing, is true. But then, of course, Mr President, my question is: why are social democrats and environmentalists not prepared to use the means of power available to Parliament to ensure that what we want to become a reality? Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-863	Mr President, I would like to It's late in the day. It's just colleagues in the parlor, but we hope a few more will listen to us. It was uplifting to listen to the Culture Committee. We felt up in space but were quickly brought down when we were about to take care of our own, probably so important, errands. The matter has been well described by the three previous speakers. Government representatives have described in detail what is done and what will be done and boasted of themselves a little. Allan Widman has spoken for the majority. I will not repeat anything but say that as far as the concern with hand grenades is concerned, we all agree on what has been done. It is important to try to put the handling of flammable goods, explosives and weapons on an equal footing in criminal matters. Let me commend the government and congratulate it on what has been done. The investigator is good, and it's a solid and easy-to-understand investigation to come from a law professor – and even in criminal law, so it was the right professor who did it. But we don't know what's coming next. I agree with what Mr Widman said about things tending to get stuck in the Government Office. We have experience of that. I may have contributed to things getting stuck, and I'll have to apologize for that afterwards. But there is a risk of this, and that is why the majority have said that we want to draw the government's attention to taking this forward and coming back.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-868	Mr President, I would like to Very good things have been said about the recast directive. We support it, and I am not going to repeat what has been said. We support the Alliance's motion for an announcement from the Riksdag, and it is known by everyone. I'll talk a little about the background to this. Over the past 10 to 15 years, the violence in Sweden has increased in particular. Now it's fixed according to location. Hand grenades are being thrown after police cars. It's really easy to make grenades. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you how to do it, but it's really easy to make a bomb. Everyone knows that. That's why it's good to investigate what it looks like in criminal circles. Fragmentation bombs are really easy to make. There are tons of explosives transported in Stockholm every week. What's the re-accounting look like? Those of us who have extensive access to explosives on the company side know this. Control is not enough. It may be reported that all 60 kilos or 100 kilos have been consumed, but who controls it? It is difficult to handle transport, and it is difficult to know where the explosive goes. There are checks and proposals also on the company side on how to deal with such things. We do, too, because we too feel a responsibility to close the holes that exist. The development is frightening with explosives, violence and so on. The other day I received a letter saying how an elected Turkish citizen evicted indecentness against the Armenian people – the same people they once practiced genocide on. To stand and say as an elected representative is a sign of time. How can you do that? This indicates that the development of society is going the wrong way, Mr President, in terms of violence. In addition to finding hand grenades to prove and rate as weapons, we should classify and raise the penalty scale for a lot of things. As the paragraph says, to speed up the government in this paragraph, we think is a good thing. It is necessary in some respects.
i-8bd884e864ce0043-874	Mr President, I would like to As we have heard here in the debate, this is an area that is covered by a holistic approach, and we have a broad consensus on these issues overall. I think these are important perspectives that have been highlighted by all the previous speakers, including Roger Richtoff's practical perspectives on how to control used or unused explosives. These are extremely important aspects. As far as the Center Party is concerned, this is a reasonable and important position that the report represents, and we support the Government's proposals. It includes the export of explosives, which are subject to authorisation, and that economic operators who do not have a physical relationship with explosives should also be subject to the prudential requirement. There are still major challenges in terms of security in Sweden. It is often a matter of heavy crime, shootings on the open street and hand grenades used. We do not know what threats we will have to deal with in the near future and in the longer term, given the terrorist attacks that are taking place around the world. Today we know that hand grenades are classified as explosives, not weapons. There is a need to review the regulatory framework and examine whether hand grenades should be classified differently from today, thereby making it easier for customs to stop entry. Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise the importance of the announcement contained in the report. I am in favour of the report's proposal and look forward to its continued handling and to being able to follow how the proposals are dealt with in proposals for further work in Parliament.
