i-5518bbc79ba916fc-9	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the UbU12 motion report on comprehensive school. I support the committee's proposal. The Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal for a statutory hourly plan and reinforcement in various subjects is a good basis for a broad-based proposal for a changed hourly plan. The announcement from the Alliance and SD is therefore a blow in the air, as more mathematics is one of the things discussed in proposals for changing the hour plan. On the other hand, to pull out mathematics rather than see it as part of a whole by means of exercise and announcement is wrong, and against this we reserved ourselves. Moreover, one can really think about the wisdom that the number of Swedish, history and home-knowledge hours in the hourly plan should be the subject of national political negotiations. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a long-term school policy that increases knowledge results. It requires early intervention, an attractive teacher's profession and an equal school. I note that the debate on refugees has toned down somewhat and has now left room to discuss, among other things, school policy. However, I would really like to emphasise that when the debate on refugees leaves room for other things, it is not because the refugee crisis in Syria has reached a solution, far from it. Millions of people are still fleeing for their lives and those of their children. It is an ongoing international refugee disaster. But the emergency reception in Sweden has decreased. Some of those who flee will have to build a new future in Sweden, and education is crucial for young and old alike. Children arriving before or at school will have the opportunity to learn Swedish, complete comprehensive school with further eligibility and be able to participate in their new home country in all ways. There is a reservation in the report about removing mother tongue teaching. I would therefore like to emphasise that the mother tongue is a key to positive language development. The Swedish National Agency for Education writes:"The mother tongue is of great importance for children's language, identity, personality and thought development. A well-developed native language provides good conditions for learning Swedish, other languages and other subjects. Students who study their native language generally have better grades in all of the school's subjects. The Swedish National Agency for Education's 2008 Swedish National Agency for Education gives several different examples of how a language and knowledge-developing school works best for multilingual students. The school management approach is important and that the school has a language policy. It is also good if all teachers work in language development. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that the primary school report for an outsider may appear to be a relatively thin report, given the topicality of the policy area. Some proposals have landed in the budget and some are dealt with in a simplified way. In particular, many initiatives have already been taken by the government, and work is under way in several areas. I am thinking of the hourly plan, the school's styrning in a broad sense through the work of the S Kolkommissionen, the primary school inquiry, the national digitalisation strategy, the teacher's salary lift, digitised national tests and central correction, cooperation programmes in vulnerable areas, the review of leisure homes' part of the curriculum, the L honor lift et II with a focus on special pedagogy, holiday school and homework help, among other things. Madam President, I would like Apart from this, I take the liberty of saying that in the near future we need a review of the career structure in order to create career paths for teachers with an equivalent structure. The role of the school leader must be recognised and enhanced. How else will the business be redirected? In addition, I think it is time for research in the field of teacher education to be given much more scope. In order for teachers to be able to carry out internship-related research that comes with comprehensive school teaching, increased research resources to the area are required. Perhaps a faculty of its own, as the School Research Institute suggests? Madam President, I would like No one has missed that Sweden is losing knowledge. The picture is clear. We do not need to emphasise further the negative developments and the challenge they present. Last night the committee was attended by a German parliamentary delegation asking what analysis we are doing and what measures we are taking. It was a small question, by the way. Reducing the attractiveness of the teaching profession, lack of equivalence, unclear governance and unclear accountability are some of the conclusions of the OECD report. It is important to land correctly in the analysis in order to take the measures that can produce real results. Madam President, I would like The School Commission is currently fully working on delivering its interim report, which I very much look forward to – not because I think they will confirm everything that I and the Social Democrats have said in the past, but because they are doing a solid and serious job without browsing any party book. Instead, they read OECD recommendations, take part in research and weigh the parts against the whole. Most of the actors in the school are involved and in this way take their perspectives into account. In fact, I believe that the School Commission will be able to contribute to the decisive change of course required to reverse the results in the Swedish school, increase equivalence and make the teaching profession more attractive. Madam President, I would like Professionals should be professionals, became a name during the election movement from the Social Democratic side, with relevance to many areas where new public management and governance from above have taken over, many times at the expense of the individual employee's creativity and professionalism. Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi has announced a trust reform to develop government governance. The goal is that governance should be more characterised by trust and trust. In the school field, a result has been a national collection, which is now ongoing with the parties in the school field. There is a dialogue on proposals aimed, among other things, at improving the working environment of teachers and reducing the administrative burden. It is an important initiative for proposals in this area to be based among school stakeholders. These include, for example, skills development, teacher training, reduced administration, teacher assistants and the school leader's conditions. Each of the proposals has a clear role to play in making the teaching profession more attractive. Another important contribution to the status of the teaching profession is the government's teacher's salary boost of SEK 3 billion annually. It is a unique approach, but unfortunately the situation with the crying lack of teachers is also unique. The issue of pay is part of getting more, much more, to go to the world's most important profession, so that the school gets the skills required for all grades and all subjects, with an increased level of knowledge as its goal. Madam President, I would like If the school's principals are to take on the task with enthusiasm, and if all the country's students are to believe in their own ability, I believe that politics must provide clear conditions and do so in the long term. We should agree on the need for better learning outcomes, for an equal school to contribute to precisely this, and for the efforts of teachers and school management to be the way forward. To agree in broad terms provides the conditions for long-termness. This is probably the most important contribution of politics in order for us to succeed in turning the knowledge results around in the Swedish school. Teacher training, rating systems, school selection criteria and national competence development are some of the important areas that should not be changed too often without good reason. To agree is not the end of a school debate, quite the opposite. I believe that politics develops when differences of opinion are met, provided that the will also exists. Madam President, I would like Leisure homes are a form of schooling that for too many years has been left off the school's radar. Instead of increased resources, the trend has been towards larger groups of children, reduced staffing density and also reduced teacher training. On the way to a recreation centre for all children, in close collaboration with the other school forms and with a great respect for the leisure teacher's profession, the government has made a number of changes, such as requesting clarification of the curriculum regarding leisure homes, to include leisure teachers in the teacher's salary lift of 3 billion and to allocate SEK 250 million this year and from 2017 SEK 500 million further to the operations on an annual basis. When the Moderates invest one fiftieth of this and claim to want to invest in fritis, there is indeed rhetoric rather than practice. For one thing is absolutely certain; u n more resources will not the quality of leisure homes increase. It costs to increase staff density. It costs to reduce children's groups, which in turn is an absolute must for children to be seen and feel the security that will shape the overall school day. The efforts give a clear signal of a change of view on fritis. Madam President, I would like A student group that deserves attention is students with neuropsychiatric disabilities. They can handle the school – with the right support. They study and develop their abilities provided that the profession has the right skills and meets students at the right level based on their conditions. Part of the Teacher Lift II, which continues, will give many teachers an opportunity to develop their skills. The extensive focus on special education will also play a role. Madam President, I would like In sports, a lot of the performance is said to be in the attitude, in the mental strength. I believe that politics must also contribute to a balanced view of school, to high and positive expectations of those who operate in it. It is time to lift all those who, in turn, will lift the results of knowledge. It is pupils, and it is teachers of all categories, school leaders and all other staff who give students a comprehensive school day with the best conditions every day.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-35	Madam President, I would like Swedish school faces many challenges. Too many people leave comprehensive school without sufficient knowledge to go to upper secondary school. This is a worrying development for both the individual and society at large. If Sweden is to be a strong society that holds together and competes with knowledge, everyone must, no matter where they come from, be given the opportunity to grow. Therefore, we must continue to invest in things that ensure that our children and students learn more in the Swedish school. Leisure homes have long been obscured in the debate on school policy – I am pleased that my colleague recently mentioned this. It is a pity that this is the case, because holiday homes in Sweden are an untapped resource that in several ways could complement learning in school. When learning is given both space and conditions to take place in daily activities and in play, recreational teachers are also given the opportunity to take on, strengthen and develop things that have happened in the learning environment earlier during the day. With the opportunities that leisure homes can offer in their best condition, they are an asset that we must use for the benefit of children. Unfortunately, however, recreation centres have been handled for too long as a budget regulator in front of the principals. It is therefore no wonder that children's groups in leisure homes have increased dramatically in recent years. Given this development, it is no wonder that leisure homes have not been able to live up to the intentions of the curriculum. Therefore, we Moderates have wanted to clarify the importance and role of free-time residences in students' knowledge development by providing free-time residences with their own curriculum. The fact that they receive their own curriculum is, we believe, an important part in raising the importance and status of leisure homes and to focus more clearly on the learning that takes place there. Madam President, I would like In order for our children and students to learn more, we also need to invest in more time between teachers and students. Every minute a student can get with a skilled teacher can mean the difference between reaching the goals and not doing so. At the same time, we know that mathematics is a subject where knowledge often lacks. Therefore, we Moderates are extremely pleased that the government is now pursuing the Alliance's reforms and ensuring that students in grades 4 to 6 get more time together with their math teachers. This, together with the competence development initiative The Mathematics Lift, is well placed to ensure that our students get more and better mathematics skills to take with them to high school. On the other hand, we in the Alliance wonder that despite an announcement in 2015 and 2016 the government does not want to continue the expansion of math, so that secondary school students also receive more mathematics education. A majority in the Swedish Parliament is very clear that this must be done. Nevertheless, the government continues to delay and delay. The money that was in last year's budget and that was set aside for this purpose was removed. It is a priority that lacks logic and fails Sweden's high school students. Madam President, I would like I have worked as a teacher since the early 1990s. I have stood in a classroom and experienced the joy of working with a wonderful and demanding class. I have experienced the frustration of not being enough, the happiness of seeing a student's eyes when it cracks the code and grief of colleagues who announce that they stop because they are no longer able and because they have lost the spark. Many are the afternoons when I went out to the car in the parking lot with a happy smile when I thought back on the working day. But there are also times when it feels incredibly heavy. The teaching profession is multifaceted and incredibly rich. Although the salary is important, it was not the one who made me choose to be a teacher. It was the feeling of being a part of a young person's life and journeying toward the future. It is about the satisfaction of succeeding in contributing to a small piece of the knowledge puzzle. But few things are as difficult as feeling that you lack the ability to succeed in your mission. Unfortunately, there are far too many examples of teachers feeling that they do not have the time to do so despite long working hours. According to the National Board of Education, the minutes the teachers spend on things like reporting in attendance, copying paper and being a rest watchman are summed up to over two hours each day. It is two hours that teachers could spend each day preparing, implementing and perpetuating the teaching. Time could also be spent on the important and crucial development of skills. The Moderates therefore want to invest SEK 200 million a year in introducing teachers' assistants to school. Their mission should be to assist and relieve teachers, so that teachers can spend more time and effort on their main mission: teaching. Reduced administration is the goal. Centrally corrected tests are another proposal. Madam President, I would like The teacher is for many children and students perhaps one of the most important people in life, apart from the parents. It is the teacher who makes sure that children at an early age learn to read and count. The teacher is the one who, with the help of his expertise, arouses students' interest in how the world is connected and functioning. Therefore, the teacher is so central and important in many students' lives. That is why we in this House must do everything we can to ensure that teachers are given the right conditions to be those who equip our children with knowledge for life. For this to become a reality, the status of the teaching profession must be increased. This work began with the alliance government, among other things, with the career service reform. The goal was that more than one in five teachers with a higher education degree would have the opportunity to have a first teacher position. Our ambition was not just to reward skilled teachers. No, the ambition is also to make teachers more active in school development. By linking specific development assignments to the first teacher service, we want to create added value for the school in general and the pupils and teachers in particular. Madam President, I would like The Moderates' message to School Sweden is that we continue to invest in school. Skillful teachers should be paid well. We want to continue to expand career services and increase the number of first teachers in exclusion areas, but not just that. In order to attract the best teachers to where we have the greatest needs, we also want to increase the salary, so that a first teacher in an alienation area receives a salary increase of SEK 10 000 per month. In parallel with continuing to expand our career positions, we Moderates have informed Sweden's teachers that the targeted wage increases that are now being made will continue to apply. The increase in teacher's salaries of 3 billion will remain. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to give leisure homes better opportunities so that they can have a more prominent role in students' learning at school. The Moderates also want to increase the teaching time in mathematics so that more students get more time together with their teachers. We want to introduce teachers' assistants, so that teachers can spend more time on teaching, and centrally corrected tests. And we want to expand career opportunities. We do this partly by supporting the teacher's salary investment of 3 billion and partly by continuing to expand the career service reform. The latter, compared with the Government's proposal, represents an increase in the ambition to expand and improve teachers' career paths. Sweden should be a country that will continue to compete with knowledge. Then we must raise the ambition of Swedish school and ensure that more pupils leave comprehensive school with good knowledge. This requires a policy that focuses on strengthening learning in school and makes a concrete difference in the classroom. I call for reservations 5 and 8.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-53	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for standing ovations and praise when we have completed a three billion-dollar effort on the teachers! There was quite a lot of criticism directed at the government from many different edges, so it feels nice that there is still something that can give a long-term perspective. I would really like to thank you sincerely for a reasoning speech and a tone that made me listen at all times. I was thinking about what the big differences really are. You can choose between magnifying the differences or trying to search for what there is a similarity in. Let me start with what's about frits. I do not think I differ on any point in the analysis of the importance of leisure centres. I also had this in my speech. But I am surprised at the conclusion that leisure homes should have their own curriculum rather than resources. Today, there are up to 20 children per staff, and it is hardly a matter of premises or activities that receive the attention and praise that the preschool, for example, receives. One would wish that preschool was the very role model to come to an equally attractive holiday home. I would like to ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall how the ideas are in terms of increasing the learning processes and the educational work in fritis with existing resources. I find it hard to see, and many analyses can be made. I would say that this is at such a low level that it is absolutely necessary to increase resources. I'll take this opportunity to make one more point. This concerns the hourly discussion, which also surprises me very much. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, myself and several others in this House are taking part in discussions on an overall hourly plan. It is not about allocated funds and specific mathematics, but is it really a wise idea to take one subject at a time in the Chamber and decide which one should have more hours? Should it be 25, 105 or 102? Is it not wise to sit down and calmly have an overall discussion?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-58	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by making a comparison precisely with preschool, which is its own form of school and also has its own curriculum. I am thinking of all the educators who testify to the importance of this, the effort they have made and the push it gave the preschool to get its own curriculum and, of course, the revised one. I have met many recreational educators during the visits and trips I have made that all testify to the importance of just getting their own curriculum to clarify their mission and their teaching assignments. At the same time, I am also convinced that we must provide resources. That is why I mentioned that we have used this as a budgetary regulator for far too long in the municipalities, and we cannot continue to do so. Rather, it needs to be strengthened with resources. As far as mathematics is concerned, I note that the budget that won the majority of Parliament in December 2014 included investments in mathematics in grades 7 to 9. As Lena Hallengren probably knows, in 2013 the alliance government invested in more mathematics in grades 1 – 3. Now the government is completing our mathematics initiative in grades 4 to 6. But we also saw, based on the international comparisons we have, how little mathematics we have. Based on this and our declining mathematics results, we saw that it was urgent to get more mathematics education also in grades 7 - 9. I note that, as an active measure, the government gave priority to these hours and this money in its spring change budget a year ago. That was a clear signal from the government. The money was there. They were priorities. This could have been followed up.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-62	Madam President, I would like I will come back to the wisdom of taking the hourly plan in a context. I also said in my speech that one can think about the wisdom of having negotiations politically on an hourly plan. I think it really surprises quite a lot of people. The comparison with preschool is important. But the resources there are quite different, and that is why we need to land in more resources. This is not really a budget debate. However, when we come back to sums, I would like to say that if we reinforce by 250 and then 500 million, there is quite a lot of money that is missing from both the Moderates and a great deal of the Alliance's budget. I'm going to touch on one more thing. It's about the first teacher. I wonder how Camilla Waltersson Grönvall sees in trying to find a coherent system in terms of career services. The dilemma is that a little too many municipalities saw the first teacher services, perhaps quite rightly, based on the way the then school minister sent out the money, namely as a way of giving a salary boost there, it was not necessary to link development efforts to this. If we are to have a coherent career development system, which I am in favour of, we must start building it properly. We should not have 3 billion that are set on the basis of criteria from the parties and then first teacher services that look completely different in different municipalities. Some school leaders are sitting today and have already received the money allocated to teachers who do not work at all with development efforts. The question is: do we have a national idea of how to create clear development paths? Then we should also have views on how the first teacher system itself is used. The last thing I want to say is about teaching assistants. It is wise, among other things, to clarify and provide support to teachers in order to reduce their administrative tasks, as the Prime Minister, among others, has made clear a while ago. On the other hand, I would like to say that EUR 2 billion in a low-level venture can be used, among other things, for teaching assistants. Quite a few have done it. I believe that there is a need to clarify more clearly what a teacher assistant does than that individual parties have views on it. I think we need to take a holistic approach to the content.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-69	Madam President, I would like When it comes to first teacher services, I think it's important – it's also my experience from the municipalities that have come a long way with career service reforms – that you tie a school development mission to them. I also note, of course, that some principals leave some other things to wish for how the reform has been implemented. However, I am absolutely convinced that in 20 years' time we will be able to look back and note that this was one of the reforms that put absolutely the best and most momentum on the development of Sweden's school. Nevertheless, I think it was important and good that schools were allowed to shape career service reforms according to local needs. We do not need to visit many schools or many municipalities to see that the needs are very different. That is why I also believe it has been important to be able to design the services in a slightly different way. As far as teachers' assistants are concerned, I note that after all the discussions and performances of various organisations, not least our teachers' unions, the government has been silent when it comes to backing up teachers' assistants and the proposal on this. I note that the Moderates are the only party to have tabled the proposal so far. It's great if Lena Hallengren concludes that the government needs to point out that you can use the money when it comes to the primary school venture for this particular reason, because it doesn't seem that anyone has noticed. At all, we can see that the Low Stage Lift or the Low Stage Promise, which I think you chose to call it, although in principle it was exactly the same as the Alliance had proposed from the beginning, is not a reform that has gone very well for you. It's good if you can roll out more of that money, and why not teach assistants?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-74	Madam President, I would like I will start by saying that the Swedish Democrats support all of our reservations, but for time winning, we only call for reservation 4 and 8. Madam President, I would like Up there in the gallery is the reason I started to get involved in school politics. I have worked as a teacher for 15 years, and I felt that from the inside, as a teacher, I can't influence in any way. But as a politician, I could make a big impact. My oldest daughter is here in Parliament at an internship. She works here for three days to see how it works. I really feel that when we stand and discuss this today, Madam President, it is precisely her education that we are going to talk about. It is primary school — the one she is attending today, and the one she is going to attend for a number of years. The School Commission has been a really good basis for what the previous two speakers have talked about, Madam President: to agree jointly on what we need to do with the Swedish school so that we do not as soon as there is a change of government jumping back and forth in school politics. I am pleased with the forthcoming proposals. The school commission has only given a hint of what is to be laid out. The Swedish Democrats do not as a party intend to express these views earlier than the School Commission is prepared to do. We wait to see the exact result, but many of the solutions touch exactly the things I have come up with as a teacher in my analysis are the problems and solutions in the Swedish school. Madam President, I would like Students' results are raging in PISA studies as well as in other studies. What's gone wrong? I was going to mention a few things that my colleagues have not yet touched upon. Many things we agree on, but there are some things that have not been mentioned. Maybe it's because there's trouble. Let me make it a little easy today. Sweden today suffers from teacher deficiency and vice-chancellor deficiency. The future doesn't look very bright. How, then, do we solve this problem? Let us look outside the light, not just inside the circuit where there is light today. The number of teachers may not be the biggest problem. Let us look at countries that are much above Sweden in the OECD ranking. There they have done a completely different analysis. They have concluded that the quality of the lesson and the quality of the teacher is much more important than the number of children in the classroom. Let us imagine that we are translating this into something else. Have students become so incredibly bad in 20 years, or is there another reason? I venture to ask the following. Let us consider the students as raw materials and see the teachers as cooks; who cooks the best food, a good cook, or a bad cook? We have not yet discussed this. I hope we dare put our finger on where the problem is. The Swedish Democrats believe that the key to the foundation of a good teacher and vice-chancellor lies in the education. The OECD has been very clear in what you think about Swedish education. They want to close down many schools and many educations. This, Madam President, should be taken into account by all parties and should, in fact, dare to watch. So the key to a good education for the students lies in a good principal and a good teacher. We all want more people to join the profession, and we want to increase the attraction. Let us begin by looking at how we win back the 30 000 teachers in business. After 15 years in the coffee room I know what my fellow teachers have been whining about, and these are some of the points I was going to raise here. One point is the working environment. Extremely many teachers today flee their professions because the working environment is totally unruly. The students behave in any way at school. There are examples of very good schools in Sweden. I live not too far from Gripsholmsskolan in Mariefred where you have really succeeded, but there you use a Finnish model. You have a better structure where the students stand up in the morning and greet the teacher before they enter the classroom. They stand up and wait until the teacher has approved that they sit down. These are common, simple routines to get back to what has worked in the Swedish school. If there are students in the classroom who can't handle the class, then maybe on-call schools are the solution. It is not about the old Obs classes that perhaps someone in here associates with, but about an on-call school for those students who have difficulties in different areas and thus can get the support and help needed. An on-call school can also be defined as a on-call class. It may be that the student does not get along with a certain individual teacher and thus cannot handle the education. A duty class can help there. Then the student can go back to the regular class in a different position. Madam President, I would like Career opportunities have all talked about in here. I think we should look at all the professions, i.e. principals, preschool teachers, leisure staff and teachers. Everyone should have the opportunity to have a career, otherwise you run away from the profession. It cannot be that you should get stuck in a salary set where there is a difference of 4 000 SEK in salary between the one who has recently started and the one who has worked for 40 years. It's too little. With this, other things must also follow, including mentoring for real. With money comes responsibility. I have heard that several parties have pointed out that there must be a real career opportunity. The real career opportunity presented the Swedish Democrats already in June 2015, also known as the Shanghai model. It gives the opportunity to develop at several levels, to go on for free in education – but it costs blood, sweat and tears. One party has just proposed teachers' assistants and says that no one else wants to discuss the issue. I want to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats brought about a motion in 2014 that was about the staff around them and administrative help to the teachers' colleges. This is once again a proposal that the Swedish Democrats have put forward and on which other parties have taken the initiative, which is nice. Madam President, I would like When we talk about re-employment, it is a question of re-employment of all the staff that the municipalities have laid off since municipalisation. Since the introduction of the communiqué, there are fewer caretakers, curators, school doctors, school nurses, that is to say, all the staff who can help the students with things that the teachers should not be taking care of. The staff should be available for students on more difficult occasions, and the teaching profession will then be greatly relieved. We have talked many times in this House, but not yet today, about digitalisation. The Swedish democrats think that digitalisation is an opportunity. I would like to ensure that all teachers who attend an education in Sweden receive an equivalent education. They can three or four times a year take exams of a national exam for all teachers' colleges. If, for example, I read you a math and NO teacher education, the quality of the education should be the same regardless of the teacher's school. I think we've given the teachers' colleges way too much space here. We must tighten up by ensuring that the Vice-Chancellor knows that the staff employed from Södertörn or Umeå School of Education are exactly as good and that the grades are equal. If all this is digitised and national tests are corrected by other devices than the one I read on, much has been ensured. The Swedish Democrats have also looked at the issue of a government takeover with, for example, a state-owned vice-chancellor, for example, as a cademy schools in England. We are very much in favour of the fact that schools that have been under-priesting for many years at this time should look at whether the state can go in and take care of teaching. We cannot allow schools year after year to under-perform and send out several rounds of these students. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats intend to return to the question of mother tongue teaching, but at present it cannot be a priority to have mother tongue teaching. There are far too many more important issues at the moment. My colleagues have already talked about more mathematics. It's important. But what we have missed are the special students. Once again, we have forgotten the high-performance students. It is students who also fall into results. Over the past ten years, high-performance students have fallen from 5% to 1%. This is very worrying. When should the Swedish school start investing in children who want to learn? I know how much time and energy I've spent on the children who don't want to be in the classroom, who are doing everything they can to disturb other students. I would like Sweden to start investing in those students who want to. There are very great chances. See, among other things, the newly arrived girls. There's a lot of high residue. There is a group here that we can very well invest in and that really wants to learn. We've been talking about recreation centres, group sizes, curricula and staff density. All of this is supported by the Swedish Democrats. These are incredibly important areas. Madam President, I would like The last point concerns carri ture services. We have looked at the stellar system and the 3,000-krona investment made by the Social Democrats. I understand that the idea of investing resources in the teacher system is commendable. The Swedish Democrats have presented the Shanghai model. It is cheaper and offers better opportunities. There are six levels for teachers themselves to aim for a level of ambition.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-98	Madam President, I would like I did not ask for a reply because the Swedish Democrats say no to 3 billion higher teachers' salaries, although I think many teachers would like me to ask why one can be for teachers but vote against spending on teachers' salaries. I did not ask for a reply to develop the idea that school today does not invest in children who want to learn or the underlying reasoning that there are not many teachers in the country who are measuring according to Stefan Jakobsson. Instead, I asked for a reply to what really only got a small, small meaning from Stefan Jakobsson. This was because mother tongue teaching is not a priority. We know that we have very many new arrivals, in a country that has historically had many immigrants for various reasons. There is clear research support for what I said in my speech, namely that the feeling that you master your own mother tongue 100% makes you have a base to build on – for a new language, but also for learning other languages. Instead of so easily waving this away and stating that it is not so important, I think it would be wise to actually look at all the research that exists and try to put it in a Swedish perspective and context. Because it is many times very tempting to make different visits and think a lot about Gud, that's what we do at home! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But we also have a history, a tradition and a culture. Our teacher training looks a certain way, and we have certain student groups and target groups. In many ways, I think that we are far ahead in giving new arrivals – students with a different mother tongue – a good start. So I really want to question how it is possible, when we see the great reception and see how many people have come here earlier who need to pass the school, to say so lightly: Motherhood education is not so important. How can they go out with a passing grade with such a reasoning?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-103	Madam President, I would like Lena Hallengren asks a question which I intend to answer at the end of my reply. First, however, I will look at what went wrong with the first teacher system. What went wrong with the 3,000-krona bet? Well, the mandate was given to the headmaster, Madam President – the headmaster who may not have been close to the staff at all, depending on the size of the staff. In the smaller school units the Swedish Democrats advocate, the Vice-Chancellor is in good contact with the team and knows who is entitled to the first teacher's salary, Madam President. The problem today is that in large school units it may be the wrong person to have got this money in his pocket. This means that when you sit in meetings between teachers quite quickly you agree that It has created a discord on the team. I understand that the intention was good, but I think that the Shanghai initiative of the Swedish Democrats is better. There, the teacher himself, according to his own ambition, is not dependent on a principal who will set the salary. Rather, the teacher is really, just as in business, raised for a reason — because you have studied and studied for it yourself. The knowledge has been taken on board and is prepared to take the responsibility it also means to step higher up. As far as mother tongue is concerned, I would ask Lena Hallengren to listen carefully to my speech afterwards and to listen to me say that the Swedish Democrats are coming back on this issue. We intend to hold a press conference in the near future on this particular issue and on how we can use these funds more efficiently and better. So I can actually refer the question to the press conference so as not to happen to myself.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-107	Madam President, I would like Otherwise, Stefan Jakobsson can take the opportunity to give an argument in any case so that we can understand why the mother tongue teaching should be discontinued. You cannot put it down and then slowly start it up. You also write in your motions that you should instead invest in Swedish education for those students who need it, Stefan Jakobsson. I do not understand the contradiction, that is, why one should make a choice in between. Let me also take this opportunity to take advantage of this shift and really correct a picture I find it very regrettable that more parts of the effort are being made both for steteachers and 3 billion. The 3 billion have been negotiated by the parties, just as a wage negotiation takes place. After all, it is not the case that each individual teacher negotiates his or her salary from scratch. Additional criteria have now been added in order to get an extra salary bet. As for the first teachers, it became quite clear in the previous shift with Camilla Waltersson Grönvall that this is not a matter of arbitrariness. Maybe there's a reason to adjust those models. It's not about the headmaster liking or not liking, but I think we should adjust the criteria for the first teacher system. I think it is important to feel that you know on what premises the money is distributed, and I think it is very wise of all the municipalities that have chosen to make the services searchable. Then it is quite obvious that the teacher not only receives a wage bet but is looking for a position that has a development assignment, which means more work. If you want to take on that job, think it's stimulating and have the skills to do it, you can also get such a service. So I think it is basically a wrong description to say that it is something that is casual. However, it is always difficult to discuss who should have a wage bet and who should not have it, but I think it will be very difficult to show that you can develop in the profession if there are no differences. No one has advocated it. If there are a few seconds for Stefan Jakobsson to develop this with smaller school units, I wonder if there is any idea that all the school units that are too large should – I do not know – be closed down. You want to build new ones, little ones? There is nothing wrong with the fact that there is a smaller school unit, but in practical terms I wonder a little about how that happens or whether it is mostly something to say from the Parliament's pulpit.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-112	Madam President, I would like I will mention a few things, and I can start with the closure of village schools that is going on today in almost every municipality. It is a very simple solution for officials to propose the closure of village schools. If we now have such an influx into the Swedish school system – I think it was 71 000 students who arrived last year – we can be aware that buses can actually go the other way, Madam President. If we can make sure that village schools today survive instead of being closed down, and if we can take children from downtown to village schools, I think we have a solution. We should not close down the Swedish school system; we should rather ensure that it survives. When we talk about the 60 000 teachers who will receive an increase in pay, we are all in favour of an increase in pay here. But I do not think that any teacher will be better because there will be 3 000 more in the register, but I actually believe in a system in which the teachers themselves will have to apply for this. The 60 000 teachers who will receive this increase are, in principle, all teachers who have teachers' rights, Madam President. I think this is wrong. I think it is better for this to be differentiated. I will come back to the last question. Lena Hallengren wanted me to tell you something about what we think. Yeah, I'll try to give a little teaser without going too far. I was at a lecture a few months ago with a scientist named Carl B Hamilton... or, sorry, Carl Hamilton's name. It was a misalignment that might have been Freudian! He said a very simple thing: You can't read Swedish in history without reading history, and you can't read chemistry without reading Swedish chemistry. When you go into each area you read the same subject all the time. Here we believe that his digital solution may be an opportunity for students to read subjects and languages at the same time and not separate these two things, as is happening today. We also have big problems out in the village schools, which have buses. Children there find it difficult to carpool in a sensible way, which means that, unfortunately, native language education is often spent at school. We must not really do that, Madam President.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-117	Madam President, I would like All of us who represent the political parties in the Swedish Parliament want to move the Swedish school forward. It's something to build on. The difference between us is many times that we want to prioritize differently and that we use different strategies to develop the Swedish school. For us in the Green Party, the school is to teach for the working life of the future but also to contribute to the students' development as individuals. The school is also designed to protect and develop the values we see as central: respectful relations, gender equality, democracy, sustainability and more. Madam President, I would like For us in the Green Party, the school is designed to protect every student's right to learn, develop and succeed. For us, the school is meant to equalise social disparities so that even children of the most deprived people get the best schooling. For us, the school should be driven by passion for the education mission and not for profit. For us, the school will provide the support every child needs at an early stage based on the conditions they have. For us, it is incredibly important to have a functional and high-quality recreation centre. For us in the Environmental Party, it is very important that the school also contributes to developing and stimulating the pupils' mother tongue. The list can be made much longer, Madam President. One way to develop the school is to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession so that more people want to become teachers. Raising teachers' salaries is one way of increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession. This conviction has led the Red-Green Government to allocate large sums of money to stimulate the increase in teachers' salaries. But not all parties have had that insight, and that is a pity. A few years ago, right here in the chair, I asked the Moderate Prime Minister if he was prepared to go in with state funds to stimulate higher teacher salaries. His answer was clear and brief: It is not the responsibility of the state to contribute to raising the salary of teachers. It is the responsibility of the social partners. Only four five months ago, the Moderates presented a budget here in Parliament. It also included the school's activities. In that budget, there was not a single crown to raise teachers' salaries. Among the comments from the day before yesterday, when the Moderates made a U-turn and stood on the government's side on the question of teacher salaries, there is a telling comment from the First Vice-President of the Teacher Association. She says: We have long demanded that the Moderates support the teacher wage initiative. In view of how the Moderates have previously set themselves to higher teachers' salaries, this week's announcement and the announcement made here today from the speaker's chair are very welcome, that the Moderates support the government's investment of 3 billion annually on increased teachers' salaries. It is very nice when the criticism from the biggest opposition party is about the government doing exactly what it does but a little faster and a little more. Of course, we welcome that kind of criticism. Madam President, I would like In order to develop the Swedish school, several measures are needed, and at the same time. The vision we have is to raise the results of knowledge, to make the school equal and equal and to raise the attractiveness of the teaching profession. These three areas form the starting point for government policy. To each of these focus areas we link a number of measures, and for these we allocate large amounts. This year alone, we're spending billions. In order to raise the level of knowledge, it is extremely important that each student receives the support they need, and at the earliest possible stage. To achieve this, we want, among other things, more employees in the previous years. The Government has also announced further training efforts to strengthen the special pedagogic skills of teachers. In order to increase equality in the Swedish school, the Swedish National Agency for Education has been given a mandate to conclude agreements with principals to speed up school development in individual schools. And we bet on those who are most important, on those students who don't bring everything free from home. Recreation centres, school libraries and student health are important. It is also possible to apply for state grants to get the best teachers to go to schools with low educational outcomes. Madam President, I would like In order to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, we have already announced many measures: It is through such efforts that we can contribute to increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession. Madam President, I would like One of the issues involved in this report is the announcement by the bourgeois parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats, of increased mathematics hours for grades 7 to 9. Simply expanding mathematics education and legislating on this is neither serious nor well thought out. We believe that the school's hour plan deserves to be treated in a more comprehensive and serious way, not least because the government has ongoing work on this. To mark against the ill-thought-out proposals of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats, we have a reservation in the report, but for time we are calling for approval of the proposal in the report.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-134	Madam President, I would like It was an unusually calm and calm Mr Amin who gave his speech today. It was very pleasant to listen to. I hear Jabar Amin quote former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt and note that he is extracting the quote completely from its context. What Fredrik Reinfeldt said was absolutely correct. It is not the state that is responsible for teachers' salaries. We note that the municipal authorities have not taken on the responsibilities they have had to carry out. Fredrik Reinfeldt's response to Jabar Amin was completely out of context, but it is not really the responsibility of the state. On the other hand, the alliance government saw exactly that concern. That is why we also took responsibility through the career service reform, so that we clearly broke the teachers' negative wage development 2011 – 2012. Now my question to Mr Amin is why you have a lower level of ambition. The 3 billion is good, absolutely. We Moderates are used to taking responsibility, and we will continue to do so. That is why our message to the Swedish School Foundation has been so clear: We take continued responsibility for the 3 billion. But we have a higher level of ambition in terms of the salaries of our teachers. We also invest in more first teacher services, and we do that where Sweden stands out as a country that does not use the most skilled teachers, where we have the biggest challenges. We are investing SEK 10 000 precisely for those services. My question to Jabar Amin is: Why does the government not see those needs? Why do we not invest in more first teachers and, above all, in more first teachers in exclusion areas where we need to give children the absolute best support?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-139	Madam President, I would like When I put the question to the former Prime Minister here in the speaker's chair, it was about that we wanted to contribute more money in our budget to raise teachers' salaries. That was not what the then government wanted. Instead, the career service reform was carried out but with considerably less funds. At the time, the Moderates felt that it was not the responsibility of the state to allocate funds to stimulate higher teachers' salaries, which is quite rightly the responsibility of the social partners. But the state also has a responsibility. Even in the budget presented five months ago by the Moderates, a single crown was not awarded. Now the Moderates turn. The day before yesterday we were told that we are now agreeing to these funds, and that is a good thing. You can't hide behind different phrases, that it wasn't, that it wasn't meant to be, and so on. In fact, the Moderates did not want to contribute state funds to general teacher wage increases. It is a bit comical to ask why the government does not have a higher level of ambition. After all, we are investing 3.2 billion more than you wanted to do. 3.2 billion more is to have higher ambitions.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-143	Madam President, I would like Career services were just a government initiative. I don't understand how hard it can be to understand. Collaboration for best school is one of the few ships the government has launched to take responsibility. However, it is voluntary. Schools that have failed and have had poor results for many years are not obliged to take part in this initiative. How is that good, Jabar Amin? How is it going to be possible for schools to actually let students down by being able to turn this down? It is a voluntary initiative that you do not have to say yes to. I want an answer to that. When it comes to breaking out a topic, there is little difference between this year's budget for grades 4 to 6. What is the big difference that makes our bet unconsidered? Why can't the Swedish government give a message about more mathematics in grades 7 to 9? In international comparisons, it is clear that we are lower. Jabar Amin can't deny that. We are lower in teaching, and we have great concerns about raising our results in math. Why oppose this? Why did the government give priority to the money contained in last year's budget?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-147	Madam President, I would like Let's stick to the facts. The Red Green Government is investing SEK 3.2 billion more than the Moderates do. Those are facts. The career reform covered only a small part of the teaching staff. It is important for the entire teaching staff to have better conditions and better wages, and that is what we do with these 3 billion annually. The difference between the Government's and the Alliance's proposals is that we both want to improve for those who work even harder in school and raise all teachers' salaries in general. That's not what the Alliance wanted. When it comes to the math hours, there is work going on at the department, and we think that one should wait for it. We are now launching more math hours for middle school, and we should wait for the work going on at the department before moving on to secondary school. That's my answer. In fact, the level of ambition of the Moderates and other alliance parties is significantly lower, several billions lower, than the government. I'm glad we're spending so much on school.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-151	Madam President, I would like The decision on the new Swedish comprehensive school was taken at the Swedish Parliament in 1962. 120 years after the birth of the elementary school, the next step was taken to create a school for all. One issue that raised a lot of debate in society in the first half of the 20th century was the question of how the issue should be organised. To a large extent, it was a clash between an elderly and a newer view of education. The elderly, above all, stood for the school. Discipline and classical education were emphasized. In the 21st century Sweden it would be called Jan Björklund policy. New ideas in the field of pedagogy, together with the general development of society, came to mean major changes. As Nazism and fascism spread over Europe, it became increasingly clear that an important task for school was to ensure that students understood the value of democracy. In 1950, the Riksdag decided on nine years of compulsory schooling. Because of the disagreement about the school, it was decided not to move on to something new directly. Instead, there was a study of the unitary school, which was called the form of school that would replace public schools and other forms of school that corresponded to the present primary school. The problem was that there were different opinions about, for example, the type of knowledge to be taught in school. Could it work that everyone got the same schooling, that we had an equal school regardless of social background, no matter how good you were in school and whether you planned to continue your studies or not? As I said, comprehensive school was introduced in 1962. After a number of years we saw the results. Yes, it is possible to build an equal school. Yes, it is possible to compensate for the different backgrounds of the students. Yes, it works whether the students want to continue their studies or not. It is possible to do this as long as you have that view in politics. The comprehensive school must be a common basic education for all pupils regardless of their social status, disability, religion, origin and gender, and regardless of where they live in the country. In comprehensive school, pupils with different backgrounds should be able to gather to acquire basic knowledge and skills, be introduced in a scientific approach and get a broad and basic general education. A common primary school means a compromise between social classes, parties and life views. The fact that all pupils should be able to attend a common school despite the families' different social status and values is based on a broad agreement in society to promote the knowledge development of all students. When the Swedish comprehensive school was built there was broad political agreement on this, but in recent years the consensus has been challenged. The introduction of independent schools, the free choice of schools and the municipalisation of schools are examples of things that have contributed to the fact that pupils from different backgrounds are increasingly meeting in a common school for all. It reinforces the segregation and differences that already exist in society. The Left Party believes that the primary choice is not a choice of school, which means the possibility of opting out of the meeting with students from other backgrounds. Instead, the main freedom of choice lies in the increased opportunities for different life choices that pupils with a common basic education can have after completing education. In the report, the Left Party has two reservations, and I call for reservation 7, paragraph 4. However, I shall start with the reservation we have with S and M P, although I will not support it. That Sweden needs a long-term school policy, I have probably heard all political parties say in the speaker's chair. It is remarkable, then, that parties who have been in government quite recently are not in the process of waiting for the results of investigations and ongoing work before detailed motions are launched. Unfortunately, there is a majority for this in committee, so it seems to be going through. However, the Left Party thinks that we should wait for the work on the hourly plan that is going on before we change anything. The Left Party's own reservation is about the recreation centres. We in the Left Party are very pleased with previous agreement with the government on an investment in recreation centres. It is an initiative that means a lot to a business and staff that unfortunately is often forgotten when we talk about school activities. Just as Lena Hallengren mentioned earlier, you would like the Swedish preschool to become a model that we can apply to recreation centres when we talk about children's group sizes and things like that. The Swedish preschool has for large children's groups, but now there is at least one job where the government proposes benchmarks for staff density and children's group sizes. This is not done for recreation centres, and the Left Party has therefore reserved itself on this issue. We believe that benchmarks for staff density and children's group sizes are also needed for free-time residences. When it comes to mother tongue teaching and other things that the Swedish Democrats have mentioned, it is interesting. In principle, all research, that is, what the Swedish Democrats rarely look at, shows that pupils who attend native language education achieve the goals of the other subjects of the school to a much greater extent than those who do not have access to such teaching. I visited Finland about two weeks ago with the President, Urban Ahlin. There we received praise from the Finnish Government and, in principle, all parties, thanks to the fact that we have come this far when it comes to mother tongue education and study guidance in mother tongue. This does not mean that there is no more to do, but it is quite telling when a country that is often lifted up as the big school nation praises Sweden for having come much further in these matters. That is something for some parties to think about. When it comes to the village schools, which were raised, I find it interesting that the Swedish Democrats are talking about saving the village schools through the newly arrived students who have arrived. But with their policies, the newly arrived children would not exist here. Then it will be difficult to bus them to the village schools, as Stefan Jakobsson said. I would like to comment on the issue of career services and first-rate teachers. It is an issue in which I believe that the political side has partially divided the teaching staff. Making sure to invest in the salaries of all teachers throughout the country is very good and something the Left Party has supported. But to be honest, I think there is something in what Lena says, that you have to evaluate and see if it has worked well with career services and the first teacher reform. What I see in the country is a more divided faculty, and the last thing it needs is just more division. What the faculty needs is the opposite. What they need is to be involved in developing the school's activities. It may be more difficult if one teacher earns 15,000 more than another teacher in school. It may sound extreme to say so, but in a country where wage dispersion today is smaller than in other countries, the sums we are talking about are quite large. We have seen how divisions have occurred in other professions, so that is something to consider. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-173	Madam President, I would like When the latest PISA survey came and the Swedish National Agency for Education had to sum up the reasons for the knowledge gap, it turned out that the main reason was that the students were left too much to their own learning. In fact, there is something to be done about this. Swedish students must receive more teacher-led lessons. The number of lessons has decreased in Swedish primary school since the 1990s. The OECD has noted that Swedish pupils aged nine to eleven have more than 50 fewer teaching hours per year compared to the average of the corresponding age groups in EU countries. Between the ages of twelve and fourteen, the number of teaching hours is 30. The National Board of Education's review also shows that many principals do not even follow up on the fact that students really get the teaching time that the hourly plan guarantees them. But drawing a few minutes on a schedule is not enough. It doesn't solve any problems. We need to make demands on and recognize the importance of the teacher once again taking up the classroom and being the leader of the teaching. Madam President, I would like Another very important question to look at is how the primary school's hour plan can be improved. Each student must have a guaranteed teaching time of 6,785 hours during his or her time in comprehensive school. When the School Inspectorate checked 722 primary schools, 220 schools could not show that they offered sufficient hours of teaching to their pupils. As it is now, for example, a student moving from one school to another may miss out on a large number of history hours because the school management at the school where the student has moved the teaching in a different way spread over the entire primary school period. I now welcome the talks that we have with the government in the Alliance on a year-end plan based on the investigation set up by the Alliance Government. Madam President, I would like The current refugee crisis presents our society with major challenges. It concerns social services, the labour market and, not least, the school. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's statistics, 71 000 children arrived in Sweden last year. In many municipalities, the situation is strained. For the Christian Democrats, it is a priority to offer a good long-term response to people and children in need of protection. When the need is greatest, our help needs to be at its best. Reforms will be needed to improve integration, where education plays a crucial role. The migration policy agreement reached by the Christian Democrats and other alliance parties with the government contains important proposals concerning the school. Among other things, newcomers with teacher skills should be able to teach students who speak the same language. Retired teachers and teachers should be able to be a resource in teaching. But more will be needed, both in the long and short term. In many places there is an acute shortage of teachers. We want to create faster ways into the teaching profession with supplementary education for people who have a degree in a relevant subject or professional knowledge. In order for newcomers to be able to reach the knowledge goals, we Christian Democrats propose a skills initiative to train 3 000 teachers in Swedish as a second language. We also need more special teachers. We Christian Democrats want to implement a special teacher lift to counter the shortage of specialist teachers. We invest 800 million SEK per year during 2016 – 2019, which would give 6 000 more specialist teachers. These efforts are fully funded in our own budget. In the current acute situation, recruitment challenges are so great that, in the absence of qualified persons, temporary employment should be allowed for persons with sufficient subject-matter skills, with an emphasis on temporary legislation. There should also be a temporary possibility of examining upper secondary school students in English. Many newly arrived students with an almost completed upper secondary education lose time and motivation when they start the language introduction. The focus on career teacher services should also be on more vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that almost everyone has raised the issue of career services and to create clearer criteria for them. That is something I have raised in this speaker's chair several times and also written debate articles about. First teachers are supposed to continue teaching but also coach colleagues. They will work to improve teaching, be head teachers on a subject or be responsible for teacher students. However, it has been shown that school leaders have put in place very varied systems with regard to criteria for appointment, specification of duties and the duration of appointment as career teachers. Uniform criteria for who is allowed to be first teacher are lacking and lack of clarity on this point is, in practice, causing dissatisfaction in the workplace. Some principals add new tasks to the first teachers without reducing their teaching time, which in practice means that the additional salary increase becomes a kind of overtime allowance for the new tasks. Other principals reduce the teaching time of first teachers as a result of new assignments. A third group of principals gives only one salary boost and the title There is thus a lack of uniformity in the content of first teacher services. There is also a lack of clarity as to how long an assignment as a first teacher will last. Can it be withdrawn at any time, for example if State aid is discontinued? We Christian Democrats believe that the state needs to take a clearer approach in order to adapt the career teacher reform to the diversity of principals within the school system. Madam President, I would like There are many more things to talk about when it comes to Swedish school, but it is also the case that too many reforms in a short time mean that the school does not get the confidence it needs. It is therefore important that what we are now doing from a political point of view in order to reverse the declining school results really plays a role. These are things that I have mentioned in my speech, that the students receive more teacher-led lessons, that the students actually get the hours to which they are entitled by law, that students receive sufficient support through more specialist teachers and that there are career opportunities linked to a good wage development and a qualitative training for our teachers. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-193	Madam President, I would like There was a somewhat odd order in the speakers in the debate, not least when the three parliamentary parties were choosing not to support their reservation. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved, because the Center Party has no reservation in the report. I want to pick up a number of different things. It has not been long since we had a debate on primary school. It was just before Christmas, and now comes a motion report, with some impact on things that we have raised in the general period of exercise from the alliance parties jointly but also from individual parties. Last night began a series that would tell us once again that anyone who really tries to make a difference can also make a difference. It was called the gym teacher. It's about a guy who comes back to his school after 20 years and is surprised that you can't do the same kind of sports education you had 20 years ago. He really tries to make a difference now. We also saw not really that type but more linked to the teacher's profession in the series Class 9A a few years ago. It is clear that you can think about this type of TV programme and attitudes to the Swedish school, that it is so much about commitment and will. It is important that we build a system that not only deals with the different forms of involvement of the enthusiasts but also highlights the importance of the attitude we have towards the school. In many schools, not least in smaller schools where high quality is involved, consideration is given to what is achieving this. Smaller schools are sometimes portrayed as more vulnerable, because they may not be able to recruit teachers with full skills. But you can see that it is also about parents, teachers and the surrounding community saying: This school is important. It is extremely important with the result, what we perform together in different ways, so it is clear that attitude makes a difference. I suppose you – if you follow the series – will see that the commitment will lift. You see some abandonment, but you also see a lot of the positive that happens with the kids' involvement in school. I know it's TV, and you wonder a little bit. However, on the side of the alliance parties, we have chosen to highlight the importance of more sport and health, even if it does not come from this report. However, the importance of more mathematics is taken up. My alliance colleagues have already mentioned the importance of additional time for this subject, linked to the long-term effort that has been made, namely with more mathematics throughout primary school and with a higher competence of the teachers, where the Mathematics Lift was an important part. To put it at that time as questioning it so strongly from the parties of the cooperation government, and then not even seeking approval for their reservation, I find something surprising. Barely two weeks ago, I had the privilege of visiting Malmö, together with the alliance colleagues in the committee. There were several exciting visits and important discussions where many issues were raised. A strong impression was the presentation from Kryddgårdsskolan in Rosengård. Such a good result, which was even better when compared to the expected result, really impresses. When you get that presentation, you think about the success factors. They are clear about what makes them achieve this. They highlight, among other things, what has been discussed earlier in the debate on first teachers with a clear mandate. They highlight the need for clear leadership, an appropriate management organisation, purposeful work and collaborative learning. It is clear that these are extremely important success factors. Then I'll be back to my introduction. It is clear that we cannot rely solely on commitment. However, we cannot build on the system alone, but we also need leaders who are really passionate about these issues and who feel tremendous pride in achieving results. I am happy and grateful for those very people. They really help you to feel a greater commitment and a greater inspiration and to think about what becomes the political task in this area. We cannot legislate on engagement and so on, but by conducting opinion work we can change attitudes and change the image of the Swedish school, and that is actually what we have to do. I am quite pleased that the representatives of the Social Democrats said at the beginning of the debate that one should not change too often and too much, but need to have a long-term perspective in education policy. I can therefore understand that much of the list that has been listed has great points of contact with the policy of the alliance government for eight years. The fact that there are some new elements is only positive. The Centre Party raises three different parts, and I would like to touch on them here at the end of my speech. I think we agree that teachers have a crucial role to play in the success of students and students. It is clear that we need to reflect in different ways on how to strengthen recruitment to the teaching profession and how to strengthen skills development. We have discussed some form of skills development guarantee, which somehow guarantees all these elements. I note from the Social Democrats that a new advance ruling is being given, if I may interpret it that way, about more money for school-related research in the forthcoming research bill and says that it can become a faculty of its own, but at least that you see more money as an important part. I thought that was an important message from the Social Democrats in today's debate. Another part that we in the Center Party raise is about freedom of choice for parents, students and teachers. I would like to emphasise the continued importance of support for this. I also understand that this debate can reflect on what happens to equivalence. But if equivalence is only about equality, it becomes very low-spirited. Something that I found interesting, linked to the presentation from Kryddgårdsskolan, was that they had advanced courses in, for example, natural sciences. Then you would have thought: When you take the most talented, if I put it that way, and have an advanced education, what happens to the class they leave? It had been clearly followed and seen that in those classes came the new drawer– you will certainly recognize that concept. Other students came forward and took some lead in the development. I think that is a very important question of attitude, not to consider students in different groups as losers but to really see opportunities to step forward and take new roles in the classes. The third thing that we in the Center Party raise is that education should lead to jobs. I thought that I would come back to a little more when we come to the debate on upper secondary school, because then we are getting a little closer to working life more than we are at primary school. But of course, the whole school is incredibly important. That when entrepreneurial learning has an impact from preschool and comprehensive school to upper secondary school, I see as an extremely important part to continue to invest in. I look forward to many upcoming, more exciting debates than on this exercise report linked to primary school. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for much of the input that has been made in the course of the debate. And once again, think about the order in which the majority parties are not given the opportunity to respond.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-211	Madam President, I would like I was going to give Ulrika Carlsson a little more time to talk about the school because I know we are both passionate about this issue. I want to thank you, from my heart, Ulrika Carlsson. You mentioned something that's incredibly important, and it's about commitment. I think that many have missed precisely that part of the debate. My question to Ulrika is: What is your analysis of what creates commitment? I have mentioned a few things from the speaker's seat. The Swedish Democrats believe that a good education is the foundation. We think that you should be safe in your role as a teacher. I think you need to be knowledgeable in your field. Ensuring that you can be a safe and good leader means having knowledge to stand on. Then you get as a teacher. All of you who are teachers know that. Freelance a little bit. A clear leadership from the Vice-Chancellor thinks the Swedish Democrats are incredibly important – that you know that you can lean back on something. I don't know if anyone's mentioned this today. It should be sustainable over time, no matter who's in the government. Perhaps we should start basing our future in school on research and not on a lot of ideological fluctuations, as we have done with the last four reforms. That is the Swedish Democrats' analysis of the problem. Which one is Ulrika? It is a matter that really comes from the heart. How does the Center Party view this? How do we create commitment so that we can keep the teachers we have?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-217	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. I'm sorry if I wasn't quite clear. But at least it says in my script that I would talk about clear leadership, and I hope I also mentioned this in the debate, even if it went by Stefan Jakobsson. But it is clear that a clear leadership and a high level of competence of the teachers – I mentioned competence development guarantee – are some incredibly important elements. I believe that many parties in this Parliament share the view that a number of tasks should be removed from the teachers who have been put on their table. Stefan Jakobsson mentioned some caretaker jobs. Administration has also been mentioned and could be added to other staff, such as teaching assistants and so on. Of course it's an important part. Working with commitment at all is just about the possibility of feeling that you are doing a good job. Engagement breeds commitment in some way – that you feel there is support from the surrounding society. Here we politicians are extremely important – that we give the support that is needed, that we show trust and trust, and that we do not knock down on a faculty that, in my opinion, is doing the best it can but in some cases can also do better with other conditions. Investing in strong and clear leadership is an important part. The Alliance government carried out an initiative on the Vice-Chancellor's lift and on the Vice-Chancellor's training, which is also important to highlight the importance but also the competence of the Vice-Chancellors we have. If we also talk about creating commitment for the students, it is clear that knowledgeable and safe teachers, as Stefan Jakobsson talks about, are an important part of creating it and for the teachers to be able to work entrepreneurially and so on. As far as these particular elements are concerned, I may not see that the Center Party has a special policy compared to others in order to create commitment. However, as I said, it is not possible to legislate on this either. It is an approach that we have to show confidence in the profession that exists.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-221	Madam President, I would like Many of the things mentioned here by Ulrika Carlsson may be agreed by everyone in this House. That is really why I am standing here right now asking these questions to the various parties time and again. When is it time for us to sit down and put everything on the table and do exactly as was done in Finland and agree on what we agree on? I know that even the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party agree on certain issues, in which we actually look at the best interests of the profession. We have another problem in the Swedish school, namely that we have lost a lot of teachers to the business community. I'm sure they're having a great time out there working on what they like. But we politicians would try to get them back in a good way. What is Ulrika's analysis of how we can win these teachers back from business? What do we need to offer them for them to see that the teaching profession in the Swedish school is a future profession for them? I think that everyone who works in school does it for a reason, namely that they are committed and really want the students' best. Just as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall mentioned earlier, it is about the joy that you have when you go home from work the day you have saved a student. I know Ulrika has also worked as a teacher. I'm sure we remember one, two or more students that we managed to turn around. These teachers are so incredibly important to get back. I fully agree with Ulrika's analysis that we have managed micromanagement – the school far too much from politics. It's about creating the big pieces. Unfortunately, this may have to do with the fact that the results have been falling constantly, regardless of what measures we politicians have taken. Perhaps here we should take a holistic approach and try to create sustainability over time. To be clear, I repeat my questions. How does the Center Party view what opportunities we have and what benefits we could bring, so that we win back the teachers we have lost? I think it's the fastest and easiest way. It takes four years to go through education, which is not a sustainable approach.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-226	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the questions. I'm not at all sure we're going to win back all the teachers who quit. Some may have found that they would like to devote their lives to a completely different direction. That they may see an opportunity from the teaching profession to make further careers in other parts of society, I don't really see it as a problem either. On the other hand, I know that we have a lack of teachers. I think an important part is to review working conditions, not least what some schools are working on. They differentiate the content of the services – not everyone needs to do the same, and not everyone needs to do everything. There are also school concepts in Sweden where you work more linked to having a subject responsibility or a coaching responsibility linked to the students and so on. I think that's an important part. Then it becomes important to have a career system for teachers as part, so that they can see that they don't have to become an alliallo but can invest in a particular part. When it comes to how to reverse the results, last year I had the privilege of listening to the Moser couple who received the Nobel Prize. In the ensuing discussion it was discussed what the school needs to do to continue to engage the students and to be able to ask the tough questions to deepen learning, so that one does not constantly surf on top but actually goes into depth on some questions. Then it is about the teachers' competence, both that they are good in their subject and that they are good in methodology and pedagogy. These are important elements. A further development of skills based on an internship-related research could, I believe, attract teachers back, so that the profession is professionalised linked to the teaching and teaching itself. This may have been missed for a number of years. However, we must continue to ensure the development of skills, so that teachers can see that there is a career to be done. The teacher then becomes an important person in young people's lives. Of course I remember with pleasure some students from my 16 years as teachers.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-231	Madam President, I would like Ali is a teenage guy and one of those who have come to Sweden recently. When discussing new arrivals, it is important to remember that individuals come. I had the opportunity to share his story. It's a story that many would probably find difficult to hear. I thought so. It was the story of a father who died in the fights against the Taliban, of a long week's journey from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Turkey, Serbia, Greece, Germany and on up to Sweden. He had a childhood that is very different from that of most people here in Sweden. He supported the family by growing potatoes and wheat. That's basically what he said he could do in the conversations he had when he arrived in Sweden. He's never been to school. He's been implicated. He's basically never seen a computer. He will now enter the Swedish school system in one way or another. This describes a little the challenge that we face when we try to ensure that Sweden is able to receive many new arrivals of the kind Ali is and make sure that they not only pass school – preferably primary school and then secondary school – and then get into the labour market but also manage in Swedish society. It is a new challenge that we face and that will be added to a wide range of other challenges that Swedish schools face. We need to lift the results of knowledge that have been falling for a long time. We need to improve order and peace of mind in Swedish schools. One of the reasons why some teachers cannot cope with their work but also one of the reasons why the results of knowledge actually fall is that we do not have the study that is needed. It affects especially tough and heavy those students who need the school most. We have the challenge of the lack of teachers, which several have raised here today. All of this, of course, is connected. But we must have many new people who want to get involved and become teachers, good teachers, in Swedish school. We also need to lift the Vice-Chancellor's mission. We need to think about how Swedish schools are managed, how to get clearer governance, clearer ownership and clearer responsibility. In addition to all of this, we must also face up to the new challenge we face when it comes to new arrivals. It's great to see that there are many good initiatives, from a publishing house that now sends 30 000 children's books to children to learn a little more about what it's like to read and to be in Sweden to all teachers and other staff makes extremely good contributions for new arrivals. We need to think about governance. In this debate, many people have ideas about Swedish schools, and almost everyone falls back on something that the state should do: the state should take care of wage developments, the state should take care of career development, the state should take care of teacher training, the state should take care of one, than the other. It is strange that no more people conclude that it is perhaps time to change the headship of Swedish school. It is for many municipalities in the country that have not taken the responsibility needed to lift the teaching profession, to make it a free, academic and important profession with high status. It is time to draw that conclusion now, I think, and the Liberals. Sweden needs a modern state headship. We need to lift the teaching profession long-term, strong and strategic. It should be a free academic profession that people are attracted to. I have nothing against many teachers going out into business. Some of them will probably stay, just as Ulrika Carlsson mentioned earlier, because they are doing a great deal of good. But we need to think about how to lure others back. Raising the status of the teaching profession, the working environment that one perceives and the wage development one has is one of the most strategically important things that Sweden has to do in all policy areas. We also need to think about how to get more on top of the toe. If we look at developments around the world and compare different OECD countries, we can quite clearly see that the knowledge results in those countries where school is considered to be very important for society also lift. It is in countries where you think you can rest on old layers or believe that you can live on historical gains in the future that the school's results fall. If Sweden is to succeed in having one of the best school systems, succeed in getting better results than today and become one of the ten best countries in the OECD, the whole society must be on its toes. It is about parents having to ask their children how school has gone today, about getting involved in raising the school. It's about students having to make a little more effort and some teachers having to make a little more effort. But it is also about the attitude of society as a whole. More business leaders have to go out on the track and say that the school is important for Sweden's future and for their companies' ability to export. Cultural workers and everyone else in society must really get to their toes now if we are to succeed in this. Reforms and a good school system are not enough. We must also fill it with commitment. What determines is that more people are on top of their toes and are struggling for us to succeed. Madam President, I would like Liberalism is quite a lot about independence for me, about people having a better chance of making their own decisions, that people should have the chance to grow in the roles that they could have. For me, the school is about challenging every student to become what you could become and would like to be. It is not just a matter of achieving a successful outcome. In this regard, we may need to have a change of valuation. For many people only strive to cross the pass line and too few say that we have to get as far as possible with each individual. I think that Swedish school policy lacks leadership right now. There's too little going on at the Department of Education. Now the government's side complains that the Alliance, together with the Swedish Democrats, says that more math is needed. But what is happening in practice is that we in the opposition are pushing the government ahead of us because nothing is happening. There's too little going on at the Department of Education.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-249	The reason we do that is because we think that more people need to succeed. We have to lift the school results, and then math is pretty central. Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that we will meet the challenge that Sweden is facing – because we have to cope with it. If we do not, Sweden will be a country whose prosperity is gradually falling, a country whose ability to deliver welfare and work is falling. So we have to do this. And I think we can. But then the whole community must be on its toes. We must again be permeated by the idea that if Sweden is to become a really good country it must start with that the school is really good and that the teaching profession is absolutely crucial.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-252	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with what Mr Nylander has to say about the main state responsibility for the Swedish school. Maybe it's one of the few big issues where Christer and I agree. I wish, like Christer, more were on that ball. I would like to ask Christer Nylander a question about something else. It's about the new arrivals. You talk about the word integration and that we should make sure that all students get into school in a good way, as part of what I want to call inclusion rather than integration. Christer Nylander's party has not opposed a single proposal on temporary residence permits for refugees – the initiatives that the government has unfortunately taken and through which it has chosen to make it more difficult for the refugees. Then my question is: in what way will it be safer for people, perhaps including young people who go to school, if temporary residence permits and other measures, which, in my opinion, would make inclusion more difficult, are introduced? It's been different parts. The first part did not include children and young people. But later the government has announced that it wants to go much further. And you go to some sort of lowest level in the EU, as you call it. Will the People's Party be for this all the way, Christer Nylander? Will you be in favour of the children also having an uncertain schooling and should not know if they will remain in Sweden next year? Or will the People's Party choose the so-called liberal path?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-257	Madam President, I would like Whether the People's Party would do one thing or the other, I can't answer. But I can answer about what the Liberals would like to do. Our assessment, like that of many other parties in this House, is that Europe must operate differently in the world's situation. What has happened is that the external border with Europe has fallen, and there were no internal borders. And almost no countries have taken such a great responsibility as Sweden has done, together with Germany. We believe that more countries are needed. This is a debate that is partly outside school policy, Madam President. But we believe that more countries must take that responsibility. We have taken a great responsibility. Our responsibility now is to think about how those who are here will have the best chance of establishing themselves. Those who will remain will have the chance to establish themselves, enter the labour market and succeed in school. Then every day must be used. One main problem is that it is taking too long today. We have to get in. I know that many peoples' movements and many committed people are out at an early stage to talk to new arrivals, so that they will basically meet the new, Swedish, language and the new, Swedish, society and know the values that exist here. With regard to the various agreements on migration policy, we naturally support the agreement we have reached with the government. I know the government has gone further. I think it's important that families can be reunited. So we do not fully agree with the government. But I believe that everyone who sees what has happened in Europe and in the world recently understands that something needed to be done. Sweden cannot accept the responsibility that other countries do not take.
i-XDdVa4Sv3asKkZ3FPGsze2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christer Nylander! Of course, this issue really belongs in other debates. I refer to it because I and the Left Party believe that temporary residence permits and a lack of certainty for refugees can hardly lead to more motivation to want to learn the language, to want to be included in society, to want to be part of society or to want to go to school. One will hardly be able to feel: I will live here for many years to come, and I want to be part of the system. In fact, the question can be put to all parties, because the Left Party was the only party that disagreed with the introduction of temporary residence permits. But as the forms of debate look, it will be difficult to take a line on everyone. I didn't really get an answer to my question. I would like to make it clear that we agree that Sweden, together with Germany, should not be the only ones taking responsibility. We should be proud that Sweden has taken responsibility. But in my opinion, we should also be very sorry that Sweden now chooses to go another way. But in what way does the People's Party believe that temporary residence permits and other proposals, which lead to refugees not being able to plan their future, mean that they are more integrated into the Swedish school?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-266	Madam President, I would like The Liberals and all other parties are constantly thinking about these issues. Whether Daniel Riazat asks the question or not, all politicians are thinking incredibly much about this. I am very pleased that the government has put forward a proposal to improve the standard of preparation classes so that we get better reception there. I am pleased that the government and the alliance parties have agreed on a wide range of proposals on how to improve the school for new arrivals. It's very important. All school politicians are probably thinking a lot about how to ensure that every day is used. I understand a lot of people are worried. Sweden does not have free immigration. We have regulated immigration. It allows some people to stay and others cannot stay. But it is incredibly important to ensure that the days they are here are worthy and developing for every child. Every day is an important day for every child. We are prepared to discuss further efforts in the form of both improving preparation classes and facilitating voluntary organisations. But Sweden should have regulated immigration, and that means that those who do not have the right to stay here should not stay here either.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-272	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. When you get into the debate this far down the list of speakers, a lot has already been said, but I would still like to raise the challenge with teachers and the supply of teachers. When I visit school, I almost always meet with dedicated teachers who think they have the best job in the world. But they are tired of constantly new reforms, they are tired of not seeing all the children as they would like and they are worried about not being able to work their whole career. These are signals that need to be taken seriously. And this is also something that the government is demonstrably doing in view of the fact that teachers' representatives and others are now regularly gathered around a national collection for the teaching profession with the aim of discussing the working environment, the challenges of the profession and how to get more people to join the teaching profession. Some of the challenges we have are that we know that about one in four trained teachers are doing something different today. Another challenge is that we have too little search pressure for teacher training, even though this has increased in recent times. A third challenge is that many teachers feel that other tasks take too much time from their main task of teaching. The government not only gathers the school's actors for talks, it also comes with proposals to strengthen the working environment for the country's teachers. The draft budget for 2015 announced increased resources by over SEK 5 billion to the school. It is money that makes much more use of it than tax cuts. In our budget, we added EUR 3 billion to increased salaries for teachers, with criteria agreed by the parties themselves. The Moderates have now happily accepted this proposal, despite the stubborn resistance from the beginning. The Government has also proposed and implemented in collaboration for the best school where SEK 400 million this year and the coming years will be invested in the schools where the toughest challenges are, which will help to strengthen teachers' opportunities to do a good job. Of this money, SEK 50 million is also weighted for increased teacher salaries. We know that teachers are one of the keys to raising the learning outcomes in school. We also know that the shortage of teachers is great and will be even greater. Until 2019, we may need to recruit more than 90 000 full-time jobs, which means that there will have to be many times more graduates than have been done in recent years. It is therefore important to have more access to the teaching profession, for example, what the government is now working on to strengthen such as supplementary educational education for those with subject knowledge and for researchers. But it is also important to take advantage of the expertise that comes to Sweden in the form of trained teachers from other countries, to validate them and allow them to practice in school in order for them to retain their professional skills and also to be an important resource while waiting for them to get out the Swedish teacher ID, if they like. Equally important is the creation of a working environment that allows some of the many trained teachers, who have chosen to leave school for other jobs, to choose to return to school. And another important group are those who are about to retire. If you are able and willing, every extra year in the world of work is more than welcome, especially right now. If teachers are an important key to the success of children in school, school leadership is an important key to the success of teachers. The other week, Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin and our colleague Linus Sköld had an exciting interpellation debate here in the Chamber on the subject what the government can do to improve the work situation of school leaders. The Minister's answer was that the principals need to be given time, mandate and support for their mission. It cannot be repeated enough – time, mandate and support. Rectors must be allowed to be the educational leaders they actually are and others need to take over the purely administrative tasks. If we have a shortage today of teachers, I think principals are something we will soon have even greater shortage of. Therefore, the question of the Vice-Chancellors' work environment needs to be high on our agenda in the future. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating motions on comprehensive school. I am pleased to belong to a government party that has so clearly taken a stand because we have three important challenges to work with. There are three challenges that should be a priority in everything we do to achieve the goal of an equal school. The first challenge is to provide early support, where the government has contributed SEK 2 billion that can be used to reduce children's groups and to hire more, to make a special educational effort. This money is over, and the principals can use it much as they like. They could have been used to hire, for example, school assistants. The second challenge is to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, and here we can really talk about investments: 3 billion annually in wage investment, improved work situation by reducing the administrative burden on teachers, skills development and much more. The third challenge is to live up to the goal of an equal school and then we have to invest in the schools that are the toughest. We do this now through collaboration for best school where the state signs agreements with principals on school development at individual schools. I hope that we in this House can agree on long-term agreements relating to school. After all, Madam President, we must give every child the opportunity to succeed in school, and the best conditions for success are to improve the work situation of teachers.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gunilla Svantorp, for your reasoning on the need to strengthen the recruitment of teachers, to highlight the work situation of teachers and principals. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First of all, I would like to ask a question linked to the fact that the Social Democrats – although Gunilla Svantorp chose not to highlight it so much in her speech – choose not to ask for approval of their reservation, even though there is a lot to do with not interfering in how many hours the school should have. I would like an explanation as to why you choose not to agree to your reservation. My second question concerns what Gunilla Svantorp raises in her speech. This concerns the need to reduce the administrative burden on teachers. I would like Gunilla Svantorp to be a little more concrete. There were some criticisms from the Social Democrats when the Alliance Government chose to make some reliefs, for example that it would not be mandatory with the IUP every year. I would like to hear some specific points about what is being done. Gunilla Svantorp highlights the need for new arrivals to have the opportunity to work as teachers and for us to attract retired teachers in various ways to stay or return to the profession. The Center Party has proposed that a departure from the requirement for teacher identification for grading be made over a three-year period. It would free up time for teachers, who then do not have the extra burden of also having to grade all their colleagues without identification. I would like to hear what Gunilla Svantorp thinks about that idea.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-297	Madam President, I would like I find it a little exciting that the bourgeois parties are so preoccupied that we do not demand approval of our reservation, especially the Center Party, which, moreover, has no reservation, if I understand it correctly. We are in favour of the proposal in the report. The fact that we then choose not to agree to the reservation must be a plute issue in this context. The question does not even deserve to be answered. It is up to each party to which it calls for approval. Another question was how to reduce the administrative burden on teachers. These very discussions are taking place in the national collection of teachers, where the parties sit. The government is sitting with the teachers' unions discussing just that. I personally think that during the alliance years we saw far too much control from politicians of exactly how to do it. I think the parties should talk their way to that. Central correction of national tests is an important thing, but then the parties will find out what they think are the best tools to facilitate the teaching of teachers. The third question concerned a departure from the requirement of teacher's ID. The most important thing right now is to try to get more teachers into school. The parties and we think that it is important to have a teacher's ID. If you're going to start messing with it, you're going to show that this isn't important. Then it is clear that we are in an extreme situation, but I think this is an issue that needs to be discussed with the parties. We are not going to be in Parliament to decide on this. I think it's an important reform, but it's been rough. You can see that. We have debated it and changed it so many times in this House.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-300	Mr President, I would like to As many times as possible, we may not have changed it, but it has happened too many times, more times than is desirable. I agree. The Center Party's view of being able to step down for three years is not that we would not agree that this is an important quality reform. It is about seeing what opportunity the Swedish school has to get through the great strain that we know it will have for a number of years to come. When Gunilla Svantorp chose to speak so much in her speech about making it easier for teachers to invest in teaching, I mentioned this as an opportunity to make it easier for teachers to be teachers. I think it is important that we do not opt for or oppose prematurely, but listen to the proposals from the various parties and agree with them. I agree with Gunilla Svantorp that this needs to be reconciled with the parties, of course also with the trade unions. It is easy to understand what the various proposals are all about in a simplistic form. Someone from some union thought that the Center Party meant to attract retired teachers to get their grades, but that was not the point. It is about making it easier for all the qualified teachers in the Swedish school not to have to take on a double burden, also linked to the administration. I am surprised that Gunilla Svantorp regards this with the reservation as a question which does not even deserve to be answered. It is quite common to maintain one's reservations and stand for them when one comes to a decision. We have asked an honest question as to why you choose first in the debate to press that you do not interfere and then do not follow through in decisions.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-304	Mr President, I would like to I did not hear any further question from the Ulrika Carlsson of the Center Party. I would therefore just like to thank you for the opportunity to talk a little bit about the most important thing in school, namely the ability of teachers to do a good job. I am sure that our partners in the national collection will discuss what Ulrika Carlsson is asking: how we make it easier for teachers to be teachers. I trust them.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-305	Mr President, I would like to One of our most important tasks as adults and politicians is to give all children and young people who grow up in Sweden as good conditions as it is ever possible to learn what they need to do well in life. On this basis, I have asked to speak for a moment about the exercise I have left on children with autism. This is a problem raised by the Autism and Asperger League. The new Education Act, adopted in 2010, introduced a change that had drastic but obviously not obvious or intended consequences for a smaller group of students. Pupils with autism but without a diagnosis of retardation are no longer among the target groups of special school, but will receive their education in comprehensive school. The change is of course positive for pupils who, with special support in the receiving school, can meet the primary school's learning goals. There was, of course, a good thought behind the change. Of course, children who do not need special school should not go there, but should be given a place in the regular comprehensive school. However, there are a small number of children and young people with autism who do not have an intellectual disability but whose talent profile is so varied and uneven that they may lack the ability to pass the primary school curriculum and knowledge requirements even if they receive extensive support. The Autism and Asperger Association estimates that this student group can total a couple of hundred students in the country. The consequence for these students is that they are not allowed to go to special school, even though they lack the ability to meet the primary school's learning goals. That could hardly have been the intention. The report rejects the motion without any specific justification, other than the presentation of the current legal rules and the change in the special support scheme. The problem is that an adapted and extended support is not enough for the small group of students I have talked about here. I do not have a motion, but I felt that I wanted to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the members of the Education Committee to the problems of this student group and the problems these students have in achieving the learning goals of primary school. It would be reasonable to find a solution that allows these students to read according to the primary school curriculum and syllabus, even though they do not formally have a developmental disability. Our task must be to create rules that help and do not spoil. If we discover that previous decisions did not have the effect we had hoped for, it is important that we make sure that we change that.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-312	Mr President, I would like to Upper secondary education has almost become a prerequisite for getting a job and for managing an increasingly knowledge-intensive labour market. Having completed an upper secondary education is a proof that you have developed skills that are important both in working life and for further studies. The unemployment rate of young people who have not completed upper secondary education is about twice as high as that of those who have upper secondary education. We have every reason to place a great deal of commitment on the fact that more people start and, above all, finish upper secondary education. We are now going to debate the report 13 by the Committee on Education on a series of motions that have been made on upper secondary school during the general period of exercise. Most of the motions in the report are rejected because they are satisfied by investigations or other work going on in the Departments and the National Agency for Education. Mr President, I would like to The 2011 upper secondary school reform contained good elements in itself, but the strict division between vocational programmes and higher education programmes was not successful. The attractiveness of vocational programmes fell from an already low level. Personally, I was very happy in 2013 when the old government set up an investigation that would look at the technical program and see if you could find professional exits. We need practical theoreticians and theoretical practices, and I perceived a breakthrough in 2013 in bourgeois thought. The study then received additional directives in 2014 to see how to increase the attractiveness of vocational education and training, but also how to develop the responsibility of employers and professionals for apprentices. Industry apprentices would be tested. Exactly that is what the bourgeois parties and SD today want us to investigate again. When we got the government after the election, we welcomed the fact that the investigation was under way. It was well composed. We gave them an overall assignment where they would look at other models of interaction between school and working life, to strengthen the role of the national programmes, strengthen local cooperation and also look at the matching. The vocational programme inquiry submitted its report on employment last November, after which it has been consulted. There are many good suggestions in it. Personally, I like mandatory prao. Together in committee, we welcome the proposal with industry schools and proposals for other improved collaboration with the business community in it. What came out was that the interest from the industry was not very great in introducing an apprenticeship scheme à la Germany. A large number of referrals were received. A lot of people are positive. I've read about a dozen myself. The compilation isn't done yet. I haven't seen a single referral saying that the investigation is wrong about interest in professionals. Many sectors are involved in vocational training and its development, and many voluntary forms have emerged from below. I am convinced that long-term and sustainable models of collaboration must emerge from below. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is based, among other things, on clear party relations in the labour market where collective agreements regulate wages, working conditions and other things. The traditional form of cooperation also includes the joint responsibility of the social partners at sectoral level for the development of different professions. It is expressed in different ways in different sectors, and it must also be allowed to do so when the conditions are different. On the political side, of course, we should support and encourage the initiatives that are being taken, but we may also have to understand that one size doesn't fit all. It is almost impossible to decide and implement models from above. In this spirit, the government has entered into talks with the social partners and school leaders with a view to strengthening the quality and attractiveness of professional programmes. Activities are planned for pupils at the primary schools of the country to inform about career opportunities in different professions. The government has merged with LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise to make 2016 the year of vocational education. I believe that 30 million have been allocated jointly for this measure. It is important to establish that the vocational programme of upper secondary school is as important as the preparatory programmes of higher education. I have a little personal hang-up: Jan Björklund was wrong. Vocational training is not second-class education for school-tired pupils. It is, properly done, a fantastic opportunity to learn a profession, establish themselves in the workplace or to change careers. In addition to what I have mentioned about the year of vocational training, the government has launched in the budget a vocational training package. It includes increased efforts on vocational teachers, improved interaction between school and working life, development of workplace learning and efforts to increase interest in technology and vocational training. There are also funds set aside to get business started with industry schools. I have devoted a great deal of time to my speech to talk about the professional programmes. Most of the proposals contained in the report relate to professional programmes. But I would like to end by saying a few words about the whole of high school. Almost a year ago, the government set up the investigation An attractive high school education for all. That investigation has a parliamentary reference group, and many of us who are in the debate today are in it. The study will propose measures for young people to start and complete upper secondary school. We shall also make proposals that allow the national programmes to be further developed and provide a broad common knowledge base. Support measures shall be reviewed. We will analyse and suggest how students' right to access the university can be strengthened. We will also analyse and suggest how an aesthetic subject can be included in the programmes. Overall, we will look at whether there is reason to make adjustments to the national range of programmes. In December, the investigation received additional directives to analyse the pros and cons of subject grades compared to course grades. Of course, we also need to develop the fastest growing programme in upper secondary school, language introduction. It's perfectly clear. I and the government have great hopes that we will agree to develop high school in broad agreement. I hope that is the ambition of all those who are taking part in the debate today. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-328	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing our high school today through a motion report. It is a rather thin one, with respect for all individual athletes. Only 17 exercises are being treated. But it also gives the opportunity to discuss our upper secondary school a little wider. We have to ask ourselves: What do we want with our high school? What is it to be used for, and what training is to be conducted there? What do we want from the students who go there for three years? Do we have reason to look differently at our high school today than 25 years ago? Just over 35 years ago, in 1975, only 50 percent went to upper secondary school. At that time it was clearly easier to reach the target level than today when 99 percent began their upper secondary school studies. Of course, the municipality, the school administration and the Children's and Education Board cannot have any other target than 100 per cent. But I also believe that we must be realistic and honest. We may never reach 100%, let alone today. We have a more diverse society and more young people who, since their age, make their way to our country. We have to ask ourselves: What are we doing about this? Here we probably need a so-called visionary, just like in Nossebro School. It's a matter of all of us working together. What about the 12 000 - 14 000 young people who fail to fulfill their dreams each year? Society's view is that this is a failure. Many are stigmatized and feel unsuccessful. They are double-marked, both by themselves and by the environment. We need to change this, otherwise we risk getting an even clearer A and B team in society and in the labour market. Here a heavy responsibility rests not least on the Social Democrats, although you and your predecessors have certainly had the best thing in mind. You have strongly indicated that everyone must enter university qualifications, a distorted view that an academic would be better than a worker or craftsman. Yesterday there were figures from SCB showing that as many as 90 per cent of students from vocational programmes are willing to combine further studies with work. There are 10 percentage points more than those from higher education programmes. This shows that there are no closed doors. These students, too, are ambitious and forward-looking. However, this is for those who pass the whole of high school. The question is, what do we do with the others? How are we going to increase throughput in high school, and how are we going to take care of these 12 – 15 percent of the student litter each year? I think we need to have a more flexible gymnasium. We may even have to think about different lengths of different programmes and also, in some respects, at a simpler upper secondary school. This is not least about cooperation between different programmes and more exits, which Caroline Helmersson Olsson has been working on and which the previous government was on before 2014. First of all, of course, we must ensure that more people choose the right programme. Here there is a great deal of responsibility on the SYVs, and I lack substantial proposals from the government on how we can lift and enhance this important profession. Surveys show that only 28 percent of the nines are aware of the programmes available at upper secondary school. Of course, even fewer people know what the professions are. In some municipalities there are as many as 6,400 students on a SYV, and in some municipalities there are 80 to 90 students on a SYV. This, of course, is unsustainable in the long run. I also believe, Mr President, that it is of great importance to investigate the upper secondary school. Here we are probably several who have contributed to the current Gymnasie investigation to investigate this. I think the course grades create stress, not least for the girls in grade 2, and poor motivation for progression in education. This makes switching programs more difficult, creating uncertainty and becoming less predictable in combination with the new rating system. We also need to review the system of guaranteed teaching time and too many teacherless lessons in upper secondary school. I follow this very closely, not least through my two children who are in high school. I actually think it would be quite easy for the vast majority of students to read more than 2,500 points. Then we can also make it easier for more people who want to enter general university qualifications. However, we must not forget that general university qualifications only provide access to around 6% of the range of higher education institutions. It is clear that it is a problem for all of us that the search pressure for professional programmes has gone down. As everyone knows, nothing happened in 2011, but it is an international trend that started some time around 2005-2006. As we know, the big drop-outs took place in the early 1990s when the two-year vocational and professional school was three years old. We need to make efforts to improve apprenticeship training. There are great benefits to be gained here in order for more students to quickly enter their professional lives with good knowledge. But here too, the government lacks answers. Furthermore, Mr President, we must also increase cooperation between the upper secondary schools of regions in terms of search, supply and information on the labour market. In the long term, it may even be possible to envisage more regulated cooperation. Perhaps a school office and a school inspection that exists in more places in the country will become an organization for the municipal high schools. It has been suggested that the regions could become principals, but I do not believe that at all. I think they have enough problems as they do today. Furthermore, as I said earlier, I also believe in closer cooperation with the region's university. It could be a win-win situation. In general, modern school research should be promoted better and faster. Therefore, it is also very sad for all of us to note that there are no more principals in schools, as this is an excellent way to get out with modern school research in upper secondary schools. Here I hope that my colleagues on the government side of the committee will come back and inform the government that this would be a wish. We will now follow the developments but also allow the school to have peace of mind and bring responsibility and space back to the school and the teachers. We have made several proposals in this direction and intend to come back with proposals that further strengthen the teaching staff and students. Among other things, we want to open up to combine language and profession introduction. Finally, let me mention a brief point about the KPU which we have been discussing in the previous debate. Today there are already two excellent proposals on the drawing board, Johan Skytteskolan and Viktor Rydberg's schools, with independent KPU training that would actively contribute to strengthening the teaching staff and its competence. I also hope that the education politicians of the government parties will take a closer look at these proposals. Finally, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-346	Mr President, I would like to As usual, it is interesting to listen to Michael Svensson's visions of upper secondary school from the speaker's chair. Now we are standing here again in a change of line, and that is because I need clarification on university qualifications. Do I understand correctly that Michael Svensson takes the fact that we have many newly arrived students in upper secondary school to revenue so that we do not go further and look at how more people can get access to higher education qualifications? I would like to hear more about this. I think that the schooling of newly arrived students is a completely separate issue. We need to look at the language introduction program in a separate way, and there are many possibilities. I listened to the primary school debate and, among other things, the Christian Democrats mentioned that it might be possible to read in English on university preparatory programmes and so on. The fact that we have many newcomers in school is not a reason to let go of the ambitions for higher education qualifications, I think. I just want to know if I got Michael Svensson right.
i-BxSMJPqtSQKupxzryLZRSX	Mr President, I would like to I therefore support our reservations 5 and 7. I'll humbly say that I may have expressed myself unclearly. I don't want to take more newly arrived students into revenue at all so that we don't expand university qualifications. That's two completely different things. I understand, like Caroline Helmersson Olsson, that it is a problem that fewer people have chosen the professional programmes. Then, as has been the case in the debate for both two and three years, to blame the previous government and the new secondary school reform is to make it all too easy. This is, as I said, an international trend, and it is worrying. There has also been a misconception, which has also been raised here in the speaker's chair several times, both by social democratic education politicians and by many of the country's SUVs that it is a closed door to join a professional programme. No, it's not. But if that is the case, and I will admit that many are still misinformed and many parents believe that it is closed doors, it is a problem, and then we must help to open it up.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-353	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Michael Svensson, for the clarification! I'm still gonna have to hang around for a while. I talked a little in my speech about collaboration with the business community and how important it is in the professional programmes. Where it is successful in professional programmes is precisely where business comes into programme councils and other things. It can be at technology colleges, certified schools and all sorts of things – even industry schools that exist, actually. Higher education qualifications are included, but they can be excluded, and business and school work together. I think that is a much better way than it is today when you have to actively choose to get higher education qualifications. This is what we are going to look at in the investigation, and I would like to ask Michael Svensson if he can think of such a model. In view of the way in which we are considering this issue of professional apprentices, I wonder: Are you listening to what the business community is saying about education?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-356	Mr President, I would like to I think it is right, as I said before, with information before high school so that you make the right choice even more. We know from the past that about 1 percent of the pupils' information about upper secondary school comes from the SUVs, and that is, of course, completely crazy. We must involve the business community, the social partners and companies in upper secondary school. It could be colleges and business schools opening up, and it's extremely important. I don't think you should close any doors at all. Is it a problem that too few students choose professional programmes because they are misinformed, we must, of course, carefully consider this. Now thoughts have been put forward in the Gymnasie inquiry about the possibility of opting out, but I think it is extremely important to stress that we must not abandon the 2,500 points currently available on these programmes with the subjects being read by professional students. All industries warn that bad craftsmen will then come out of high school. This is something we need to watch out for. That is why I stressed that you might have to read more than 2,500 points. I think all students can do that.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-360	Mr President, I would like to With the development of society, upper secondary education has become a necessity for more or less everyone who wants to move forward both in working life and in terms of study. Completed upper secondary education is important in order to be able to enter a labour market where there is strong competition. However, upper secondary education is also necessary for further studies and for developing as an individual. For these reasons, it is our responsibility to create the best conditions for upper secondary school to be as good as possible. One of the issues raised by the bourgeois parties and which they, together with the Swedish Democrats, have managed to make announcements of is to ask the government to investigate whether a broader and reinforced upper secondary apprenticeship can be introduced and what consequences it would entail. We all know that apprenticeship training was introduced in 2011 by the bourgeois government in connection with the secondary school reform. The ambition was to create 30,000 apprenticeships between 2011 and 2014. But that never happened. According to the vocational programme inquiry, which was set up by the previous government and which produced its final report a few months ago, there is little interest among professional organisations in developing an apprenticeship model of a central European average where the apprentice is recruited and hired by the employer in order to have his entire training at the workplace. This is about what the Alliance wants, and that is what the investigation rejects. In view of all this, the bourgeois parties, I believe, should have reconsidered. It is a bad company to push through proposals that do not work properly. Mr President, I would like to Another issue affected by this report is professional schools and apprentices, i.e. apprenticeships with greater influence and responsibility for professional organisations and employers. Industry schools were the proposal that the Professional Framework Survey came up with in response to the wishes of professional organisations. For this reason, the government is investing funds this year and next year in a pilot project with industry schools. It is important to support the development of a pilot activity with industry schools for small professions in sectors that have difficulty in coping with their skills. Mr President, I would like to It is important to strengthen the quality and attractiveness of upper secondary vocational education. Part of this is an extension and reinforcement of the effort to increase the qualification of professional teachers. In order to invest in more professional teachers with the right qualifications, we will spend large amounts of money on this and the next three years. Another important aspect is the interaction between school and working life. In this context, the matching of labour market needs, on the one hand, and pupils' choices and the content and supply of vocational education and training, on the other, need to be improved. A good way to achieve this is to strengthen the influence of the industries on the vocational programme of upper secondary school. A further important measure is to promote the quality and attractiveness of professional programmes. This year, the government is also investing large amounts of money in efforts aimed directly at increasing young people's interest in upper secondary vocational education. Mr President, I would like to It is important that all high school students have the opportunity to develop and use their imagination and creativity. This can be done, among other things, through the aesthetic subjects, which we hope will eventually come in. We in the Red-Green Cooperation Government also want to give vocational programme students the opportunity to obtain higher education qualifications without major obstacles. That question now lies in the investigation, as the previous speaker mentioned. A major challenge at the moment is to ensure that early school leaving is reduced or stopped altogether. It is a challenge for all of us, and not just for the government. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is important that secondary school is also equal and equal, because it serves Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the proposal contained in the report with the exception of our joint reservation, but for the sake of time we will refrain from calling for its approval.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-373	Mr President, I would like to Upper secondary school is always interesting to debate, discuss and highlight various aspects of. For most of us it is three years, but for some it can be four or five years for different reasons. It's a very important period of life. We politicians are now receiving many invitations to UF fairs, that is, Young Enterprise, where young people show their entrepreneurial commitment and creativity in different ways. In May, those who have won at the various fairs will come to Stockholm, where they will present their proposals. So far we have talked quite a lot about the future of vocational education and training. In the case of young entrepreneurship and professional programmes, it is already difficult to combine this. It may surprise a little that there is no room in vocational education and training to train entrepreneurship in a better way. In a number of professional programmes there is no room. When you choose from the government to take in general university qualifications, additional time for aesthetics and other important issues, you can think about the opportunity for students to also reach the goals of completing comprehensive school. Jabar Amin chose to finish his speech by addressing the challenge of leaving high school. Of course, it is a great challenge that we all see. I find it a little sad that there are no more proposals and reflections from Mr Amin and other representatives of the government parties on what to do for that challenge. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the reintroduction of a number of elements in order to further theorise professional programmes, but to provide more time, will reinforce the possibility of continuing training. Here it is important that we not only strike different ideas in each other's heads but actually have a serious discussion. As Caroline Helmersson Olsson said, there is now a parliamentary group linked to the Gymnasie investigation. I wish it could work more together than it has so far. With regard to the goal of having fewer drop-outs and more of those who complete upper secondary school, I believe, like some others who have spoken in the debate now, that it is possible to offer more guidance. In both primary and secondary schools, guidance should be available for a longer period of time. I see this as a part of what is likely to be highlighted by various parties. It's really needed. The government parties proudly point out that they will invest SEK 30 million in the years of vocational education and training. It is not a big money, Jabar Amin, but I hope that they will make enough difference, so that it increases the attractiveness of the professional programmes for all the young people who implement them. There has been some talk about upper secondary apprenticeships, where there is also an announcement, even if you do not want to agree to your reservation. That may be a small question. It then refers to the vocational programme inquiry, which claims that there is no particular interest. However, since the introduction of apprenticeships, we have seen a steadily increasing interest in these training courses. Many who have completed these courses also have jobs. Then the government chooses to give the signal by lowering organiser grants and the like. Then it is clear that the students are starting to think about whether this is really a future education or whether something is being pulled in. This issue also deserves to be further highlighted in discussions related to the sectors of activity. One should not dismiss this issue as lightly as I think the government parties do. As far as industry schools are concerned, I am pleased with the consensus that seems to exist, linked to the need and design of industry schools. You can see it as an important centre of excellence. But in a way, it's not news. There are industry schools in Sweden today, but the structure could also be used to increase the number of business schools. One issue that the Center Party has chosen to highlight in a motion concerns the efficiency of vocational education and training. There are exciting examples where you make more of the time you have in upper secondary school. When the professional programmes were extended from two to three years, time was extended, but the content was not always increased. There are exciting examples of how you can actually shorten the time from starting your education to getting a professional certificate from five to four years and sometimes from four to three years. I think it is important when it comes to young people's opportunities to get into work and get a real job that you have respect for the time you have to spend on education and that you are constantly prepared for the reviews that might be needed. There has been a tendency for a great many years to extend training courses all the time. One can really think about what content the education should have. Could we build on additional training so that we can have a shorter basic education and, at the same time, go further in what we are looking at for lifelong learning? It's about seeing opportunities for development. I mentioned in my speech on comprehensive school that I would come back to this with training to work. This is the third part of the Center Party's education policy. There is a pressing need for people in many industries. There is a need for a lot of professionals around Sweden. I would like once again to highlight the need for us to give the right pictures. We can continue to discuss who has said what and what pictures have been painted. This reinforces the need for competent study and career guidance. I think we will have to put a lot of resources and effort into this in the coming years. I think we've all read the Job Programme Investigation and we've all been amazed at how few professions young people actually know about. One sees a great need to also work more with knowledge related to working life in primary school. The professional programmes are extremely important. The entire high school is extremely important. It is about the possibility of entering the labour market. I would like to endorse reservations 2 and 7.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-388	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the previous speaker. It is worth reviewing the actual form of debate and how to replicate. You can get a little frustrated not being able to take a line on certain parties. Upper secondary school, which was once the way for a few, should today be a matter for all those who have completed primary school. That's almost the way it is. Almost 99% of all young people go to upper secondary school, but only half of them reach all the goals and complete their education with a passing grade on all courses. The mission of upper secondary school must be to ensure that all pupils actually reach the goals that exist. Since the knowledge to be provided by upper secondary school must be regarded as a right for each pupil, the school should not waive its responsibilities by referring to it as a voluntary form of school. Freedom of contribution, as in comprehensive school, shall also apply to upper secondary school. For the individual as well as for society, upper secondary education is a prerequisite for good professional competence and active participation in society. The role of upper secondary school is therefore twofold. It will pave the way for the individual to become a professional and personal self-confidence and thereby strengthen the material and social base of social life. But just as important is that it continually broadens the individual's competence and position as a citizen of society. These include knowledge and sensitivity to the concerns and needs of social community and democratic popular government, as well as understanding and commitment to cultural life and its development. Upper secondary education must therefore be seen as a right for all those who have graduated from upper secondary school. All programmes in upper secondary school must be able to grant eligibility for higher education studies. The programmes should be able to provide sufficient linguistic and other competence for higher education studies. For those who have not reached formal qualifications for entry to upper secondary schools and higher education institutions, the possibility of supplementing them should be able to provide such competence. What is important in this matter, we believe, is to settle with the old and outdated notion, which has justified differences between theoretical and practical professions. These do not apply today and not to the society of the future. To have a lower ambition in the vocational programmes regarding teaching in the Swedish language or in orientation and education subjects, we think, is irresponsible. Good language skills and understanding are equally important in all workplaces today. Then one might wonder why the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats do not think so. Perhaps links can be made with other proposals that have come from the alliance parties. With reference to new arrivals, among other things, they propose lower wages. In this case, the basis for lower wages is laid. Everyone knows that for those who do not receive upper secondary education, the chances of getting a job are reduced. And for those who have received it but who do not have the authority to continue studying, it will also make it more difficult in the labour market. We know that, depending on how much education you have, it can be different in terms of how many years you live. It is very clear that the population of Pajala does not have as long a life span as the population of Danderyd. One might ask: Why? But it is possible to make socio-economic links with education policy. We therefore believe that this is irresponsible by the alliance parties. In addition, democracy and civic participation require the same level and scope for all in terms of social science and world orientation. The same is true of culture and aesthetics. Therefore, upper secondary education should also provide a general basis from which knowledge and abilities can be further developed. In some cases, a narrower specialisation may be justified, depending on local or professional needs. But, normally, we should perhaps start discussing more how employers assume their responsibilities to complete the training of the people they employ for special tasks, rather than only – unfortunately, this is what it looks like today in many places – ordering skilled staff from politicians. There is a need to deepen the studies, which increases the judgment and ability to independent thinking. It can also improve pupils' opportunities for participation in the learning process. The Left Party strives more for integration and context in education, especially with regard to subjects such as history, social science and religion. As a consequence, the number of entrances to upper secondary school should be smaller but wider. The choice of specialisation and specialisation can then be made gradually during the course of the training as the understanding of the advantages and disadvantages of the different options increases. With fewer and broader entrances you can also counteract the negative gender distribution that we have in the Swedish upper secondary school. Today it looks very uneven. On the construction, electricity and energy and vehicle programmes, there are very few women among the graduates, less than 10%. And on craft, health and children's and leisure programmes, nearly three-quarters of women are. As politicians, in order to reverse social developments, we must work for equality not only on 8 March, as it was yesterday, but every day. We must take responsibility and look at what we can do to improve gender balance. For some parties, this can be very extreme. For a feminist party like the Left Party, it is self-evident. Today's bourgeois education and knowledge ideology rests on an economic foundation and a poor employer interest. Against this must be a view of education that is rooted in the needs and comprehensive personal development of all students and in a deeper concept of knowledge that strengthens students' ability to understand logic and context. I would also like to emphasise something when it comes to jurisdiction. Among other things, I have been to Kvarnsveden paper mill in Borlänge with members of Parliament from Dalarna. That was a very unanimous answer when we asked: what is the future labour market like? What is the current labour market like? Both trade unions and officials and other professional groups on the ground fully agreed that we need to have a secondary school where we give all students an opportunity to gain access to further studies. They simply meant that it would otherwise make it difficult for people to get employment. Then it is sad that the alliance parties do not even choose to listen to this. I hope, as one of the members of the parliamentary reference group, that we can have much better discussions and that we can simply come up with a solution on how to get more students to go to professional programmes and how to get fewer to drop out of the programmes. I would also like to raise the issue which has been the hot issue of the Left Party for many years. It's about the profits. Upper secondary school has been the most affected form of school in the unique market experiment we have had. Sweden, as the only country in the world, allows these profits and profit withdrawals to tax havens, among other things. I would just like to point out that I look forward to the fact that the Left Party, together with the government, is making proposals through the inquiry into welfare gains to finally put an end to what I would call theft from our common tax money. Finally, I would like to raise the question of principals and teachers, which has been mentioned here before. Both in the previous debate and in this debate, the situation of teachers and principals has been raised. I would like to raise a problem which exists today and which we in the Left Party see. It is that principals, among other things, are increasingly allowed to act as financial officials rather than as educational leaders. Since we all seem to agree that the principals are very important when it comes to leading the business forward together with the teachers, we must probably look at what the system looks like in the municipalities and what the new public management system looks like at all. Even to review it, an investigation has been set up. I hope that the ideological blinders can be set aside for what is real in this case.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-408	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report in the parts that we support and, not least, in reservation 7 on business schools. In fact, this debate is very similar to the debates 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. I have had the privilege of attending the Chamber at every opportunity. I am struck by the fact that the whole high school debate, if you peel away all the heavy posts, is always about whether or not students should be forced to become eligible for universities and colleges. If you peel it off and simplify it a little bit, it's the whole high school debate. But high school politics is much bigger than that. It is about the responsibility of primary school, which we have just debated for two hours. 14 000 students in Sweden come to Swedish upper secondary school without eligibility. They are not eligible to apply for one of the national programmes. Caroline Helmersson Olsson, the Social Democrats, comes from Södermanland, who happens to have the second worst results when it comes to eligibility for upper secondary school. She also comes from the municipality of Vingåker, which I have looked at a little extra. Last year, 37 per cent of them left comprehensive school without qualifications for national programmes. This is the big challenge in Swedish school politics at upper secondary level. How do we take responsibility for fewer people who are not allowed to go to high school? How do we have an education offering where more people can be offered a good education whether they want to go to universities and colleges or to vocational training? Unauthorized people are a big problem. The defection does not even mention the Social Democrats in its speech. Thousands of young people are still being knocked out, regardless of reform, from upper secondary school. We have problems with exchange, we have problems with quality in teaching and we have problems with attendance and truancy, not least in grade 3 in upper secondary school. And we have repeated, I regret to say, despite all the attempts that the previous and current government has announced problems with the cooperation of the industry and the involvement of working life in upper secondary education. That is by far the biggest challenge. A number of figures have been mentioned here in the debate. They depend on the image you want to give. You could say that 30 percent leave high school without a full grade. It can also be said that 35 leave high school without a final grade. It depends on whether you look at how many people have a high school degree, an approved upper secondary school degree or an overall grade document, as it is called. You may have a final document, and you have studied courses, but you are not approved of the courses. You can look at the considerable variations that exist, from 90% on some programmes down to perhaps 40% or 45% on certain food programmes, electricity programmes and so on. It is extremely alarming that we have such quality problems and variations in Swedish schools at programme and school level. This is what the Social Democrats do not want to touch on either. Another factor that possibly contributes to fewer people getting a final grade is that we tightened admission requirements to enter upper secondary school. It got a lot harder. But getting out of high school has also become much more difficult. There are simply more stringent requirements for both vocational and study programmes in order to obtain a final grade and a upper secondary school diploma. Before it was basically enough to have passed in mathematics, Swedish and English and some student work to get a matriculation examination. Now it takes a lot more. When the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government now announces a number of measures to roll back all these reforms, I would like to know in this debate, Mr President: Will it force all students to become eligible for higher education and to enter general university qualifications even though everyone already has that opportunity today? Will certain admission requirements be removed to enter upper secondary school? Will it lower the requirements to get out of high school and to get a final grade? It is not just a question of getting in and out, but we also need to discuss these factors. They affect the flow, and they affect the quality and the signal we should give. Upper secondary school should not just be a temporary station and then be a trampoline out in unemployment or adult education where you should read about everything again. What I hear a little bit is that it's supposed to be aesthetics. I also hear a little bit about that it is clear that students need general university qualifications to get a job. There are studies from the National Agency for Education, and you are welcome to look at municipal compilations. These show that it was they who attended the construction program and the vehicle program, although it was 20 to 30 per cent who never got the final grade Passed fully, which represented the largest proportion that was established and got a job. Contact with the world of work and the industry was absolutely best at this type of education, and they got a job. So there's no correlation here. Just because we add that you should read general university qualifications does not increase throughput, and the dropout does not decrease. The establishment of the labour market is not improving either. What you're saying is not true. In particular, we want to raise apprenticeships. Finally, I would like to mention the trade apprentices, where we from the Liberals and the Alliance would have liked to go further than just allocating 10 million to a trial, Mr President. That is also why we have reservations.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-422	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Roger Haddad for reaffirming my view of what his view of humanity is and what policy his party stands for. To those who have not heard Roger Haddad before, it could be said that, in principle, in all debates, whether they relate to the labour market, education, justice or any issue, he must emphasise that the problems have arisen because of new arrivals. Furthermore, he does not come up with any solutions himself, and he has a view mainly on working-class children that I do not share. When Roger Haddad criticises those parties who have the view that students attending vocational programmes are no worse, it would be interesting to hear what he himself would suggest for measures to reduce the drop-out. What would Roger Haddad himself suggest that we do in order for more people to apply for the professional programmes and to ensure that there is a better gender balance? It would be interesting to hear that, because time and again we hear Roger Haddad attacking not only the Swedish Government but also the Left Party because we simply have a vision where we believe that students who choose to take professional programmes are not worse. We believe that students should not have to make their life's choice when they are 15 years old and then have to take several years to catch up with what they may not have had in high school. Why don't the Liberals think these students are worth more than that? And what proposals do the Liberals have?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-427	Mr President, I would like to I have not mentioned the new arrivals or the Left Party in my speech, but I have addressed Caroline Helmersson Olsson from the Social Democrats. It is possible for all students in Swedish upper secondary school to enter general university qualifications. It's even on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website, which Daniel Riazat is welcome to look at. As regards vocational programmes and upper secondary education in general, it is precisely about quality. That's why we invest resources in primary school: more specialist teachers, qualified teachers, qualified subject teachers and focus on work peace and the role of the principals. But the transition must take place to high school, where there are clear demands. It had not been done before. We advocated apprenticeships and vocational training for those who want to go to work. Many young people want to work right after high school; I pointed this out in the example of the construction programme and the vehicle programme. Those who attend this type of education want to get to work right away. They do not want to go on to higher education. What you don't answer for is that the students used to get into different programs but left high school without a final grade and went out into unemployment. There was also a criticism in the old upper secondary school, to which you now want to go back, that the collaboration and association with working life was almost non-existent. That's why we told the National Agency for Education: Establish programme councils, strengthen quality and look over workplace trainings! I think, however, that we were too careful when we checked the quality of the programme councils and when the National Agency for Education approved the conversion of a school space into a florist education. It should of course be out in a real florist shop or in a hair salon, in that case. That is why we are strong supporters of apprenticeships but also of business schools. You'll have to clarify, Daniel Riazat. Are you for industry schools where the industry gets a bigger element and a greater control of education or not?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-432	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Haddad! It is interesting when representatives of the Liberals talk about peace of mind within the Swedish school, given that every teacher in this country could testify to the opposite during the time that Jan Björklund, your party leader, was in the Ministry of Education. He completely abandoned all the research and studies that exist in education and simply pushed on with the extremely liberal and market-oriented policy of education as well. You say we had a system where the students came in, but left high school. Today we have a system where students barely come in, and those who come in leave high school. The question is: Are we going to come up with solutions for getting the students who dropped out of not dropping out, or are we going to make the whole situation worse for everyone because a number of students drop out? That's what the High School investigation is about today. We in the parliamentary group are talking about how the situation is to be resolved so that there is less drop-out. But the alliance parties continue to stick to the line that will lead to more drop-outs and that will not solve the problem. It is positive when working life and the labour market work closely with the school and that there should be much more investment in vocational programmes. It is also a problem that the government has increasingly left more and more power in labour market policy and education policy to employers and business. Cooperation shall be reciprocal. I hope that's the line Roger Haddad wants, even if I don't think so.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-436	Mr President, I would like to On 19 March last year, Aida Hadzialic, responsible Minister of State, said that politicians deceive students that they do not need an approved upper secondary school education. I would like to hear from the government parties in subsequent speeches or in forthcoming debates which politicians in the Alliance or which representative of the Liberals, the KD, the Center or the Moderates have said that you do not need upper secondary education to get by in the world of work. I don't think anyone has said that, but it's just rhetorical points. Just the same thing Daniel Riazat is doing. 98 - 99% of Swedish young people attend upper secondary school. The Alliance government repeated the old criticised IV programme that was set up when you ruled. It was the individual program where you could read about Swedish and mathematics. It was a two-subject constellation from elementary school. There are now five specific programmes with introductory courses for new arrivals, language introductions, career introductions and study preparatory programmes for those who later want to move to a national programme. It wasn't in your time. Even if the quality is to be increased, it has become higher than before. The problem, none of you go into, S, MP or V, is what's to be done with anyone dropping out during high school. Thousands of young people leave upper secondary school in grades 1, 2 or 3. 25 – 30 per cent of those leaving upper secondary school do so without a final grade and without permission to move on to college or without getting out of work. That is what we are trying to remedy, and you do not have a single proposal there.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-439	Mr President, I would like to The main task of upper secondary school is to convey knowledge, to stimulate pupils' intellectual development and to prepare young people for higher education or a direct entry into working life. This requires that upper secondary school programmes have different orientations, the possibility of choices within the programmes and a common platform of knowledge. There must be theoretical programmes aimed at studies at the university, and the programme must be of a quality that meets the university's requirements. The vocational programmes must maintain a level that leads to work immediately after graduation and which should give higher education qualifications if you wish. There should also be apprenticeship programmes where training is more linked to companies and learning during work. After apprenticeships and vocational programmes, it shall be possible to obtain qualified professional knowledge within a university of applied sciences. Mr President, I would like to Professional skills must be valued and given a higher status among our young people. The message that the only thing that counts is being qualified for academic studies has been devastating. While there is a high level of youth unemployment, companies shout for skilled people. Here it is matching that is needed and better information about which educations actually lead to jobs and that have the future ahead of them. We should all be helping to communicate that all secondary schools can actually grant higher education qualifications if you wish. It is also important that there are opportunities for a second chance or to supplement your education if you need it in the future. Since 2014, there is now a new form of employment for apprentices. Those taking upper secondary apprenticeships in one of the upper secondary school's vocational programmes can now become employed in a new form. We in the alliance parties believe that the ability of employers to take up apprenticeship training should be increased. Mr President, I would like to A lot of people have brought up the high school investigation. Several of the members of the Education Committee are included in this. Its purpose is to make proposals to increase the rate of pass-through in upper secondary school. It cannot continue as it is now, i.e. that 69 percent of the students pass upper secondary school in the three vulnerable years. The fact that it looks like that can have many different reasons. Maybe you choose wrong from the beginning. Others can't handle the line they've chosen. Many times there is insufficient support to advance your studies. A major reason for the drop-out could be the so-called course grades. Today you get a course grade in grade 1. If you don't pass the course and get a bad grade, you're basically already out. The grade will be included in the grade, and the grades as they are designed today also increase the stress and grade within the school. It is good that the Gymnasie inquiry is given additional directives to also look at this central issue in order to get to the amount of drop-outs that take place in high school. Mr President, I would like to A prerequisite for the students to complete their studies is that they receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. Points on different courses have today replaced the previous hourly plan, but there are today no requirements on how many lessons a high school student should have. The more flexible scoring plan in several schools has become a way to cut back on lessons to save money. Two thirds of the principals lack guidance on how to follow up the teaching period. Every year, many schools are criticized by the Swedish School Inspectorate for the lack of teaching time. In an international comparison, Sweden is low in the number of teaching hours. Moreover, the fact that we do not give our students the hours they are legally entitled to is devastating. We must be able to guarantee that our students receive the education they are entitled to, and that applies to both primary and secondary schools. Mr President, I would like to Those who, for various reasons, cannot cope with or cope with school need support much earlier in the education system. Here it is important to put all the support and resources into the primary school so that you quickly discover the students who slip behind or feel bad. Here, sufficient resources for student health will be central as well as access to special pedagogy skills. In these areas, the Christian Democrats have well-prepared and funded proposals. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-449	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats have no claims on the issue, but we do have opinions. The secondary school inquiry is an attempt to find out the high number of dropouts that occur during high school. Everyone has had a little different solutions, and I also intend to give my picture of it all from the Swedish Democrats' side. Roger Haddad has spoken exemplaryly on this matter. I've been taught to say the liberals. Mr President, I would like to One thing that has not been mentioned at all is the statistics on the grade 9 students who were pushed out of the system. I am one of the teachers who have seen how many nines you really try to get over the edge and squeeze into the education. How big is the dropout among those students who have just barely passed the comprehensive school grades? We need to look at these statistics before we can take the discussion forward at all. I believe that IV today is the largest programme of all programmes. In the High School investigation, we're supposed to sit down and discuss. I eagerly waved my hand at the first meeting and had a suggestion that it is of course time to go back to a two-year high school for practitioners and estetes. Michael Svensson from the Moderates was in and mentioned something about this. However, we were not allowed to think so freely, Mr President – absolutely not. It was really important that high school was still three years old. We then proposed that more practice, experience and, above all, contacts with the world of work and business should be introduced. Indeed, by doing a lot of practice, Mr President, contacts are also being made. At present and as Sweden looks, contacts are by far the easiest way to get a job. But no, we were not allowed to think so freely either. Is it now so important to have credits are actually both komvux and folk high school. So there are two further ways to go, Mr President, to read out so that you can gain higher education skills if that is what you are seeking. I believe in a return to a two-year high school where you actually read things that are relevant to working life. Here we can see, for example, that several large companies in Sweden have decided to create their own upper secondary schools to really create students you can put into work. This is one way the Swedish Democrats advocate. That is most commendable. Students are also likely to have access to work after they have completed upper secondary school education. Of course, we also support the issue of subject grades rather than course grades. These are teenagers we are talking about, Mr President. They are full of hormones, and in grade 1 they may have no idea what they want to do with the rest of their lives. For example, did the President himself know when he was in grade 1 in high school that he would be sitting here as President a number of years later? I don't think so. It is incredibly important that these people are given the chance to repair their grades. It cannot be that a course certificate is given and that you know from the beginning that you will not have enough grades to search for or get into the workplace you want in life. At present, Mr President, the world is so changing that I do not think any of us in here can say exactly what it will look like in ten or fifteen years – or even in five years' time. This means that teachers must be incredibly flexible and have very close contact with the business community. Here we see that it is missing, and I think that several parties, apart from ours, have mentioned the issue. Young people today in high school have a much wider but narrower market to choose from, Mr President. When I studied a four - year technical education, I knew about the jobs I had to work in. At present, it is not as specific. At the same time, we are trying to broaden our education so that we can easily move forward, and here there are other bodies to take advantage of than high school. We are also, of course, in favour of the removal of teacherless lessons. Reading an education of 100% means that you should also have 100% teacher appointment, Mr President. A teacherless lesson is not a lesson at all in my world. I think that a broader apprenticeship for esteters and practitioners could be very useful, Mr President – particularly with regard to the business sector. We also hear that universities and colleges complain about quality, Mr President. In particular, KTH, for example, has complained about quality. I don't think it's high school that's the basic problem. In fact, I think we will have to look as far back as what we had a debate about just a few hours ago, namely primary school. If we do not have a common thread right from the bottom of the preschool and all the way up to the level of research, we cannot have a well-functioning system, Mr President. Here I think the solution lies, and I think the whole issue is far too important for us to stand and bang each other in the head with one idea after another. This is where we all have to get along together. Our party is the first to come to an agreement on a common policy for everything from preschool to space research.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-463	Mr President, I would like to I would like to raise an issue which Stefan Jakobsson and his party now choose to hide and sweep under the carpet. I would like to talk about the issue of our resources, our common welfare and where our resources go. I would like to talk about the benefits in welfare and specifically in school. When the Swedish Democrats went to elections in 2014, it was a promise that they would limit the benefits of welfare. A few months ago they were invited by a number of venture capital companies and business operators, and today the Swedish Democrats have taken a different position: that our children's and students' resources – the tax money I, my parents and others in this society pay in – should be able to go to venture capital companies with tax accounts in Jersey and Guernsey. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats have the nerve to blame the lack of resources in various areas of welfare for newly arrived children, unaccompanied minors and other refugee groups. I would like to ask how Stefan Jakobsson thinks it is connected when the Swedish Democrats suddenly, under pressure from the business community, change to simply become the best friend of tax planners and venture capital companies. How does it go together at the same time as the Swedish Democrats blame the resource shortage on new arrivals?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-466	Mr President, I would like to I thought the free schools and the benefits of welfare would be another debate, but if Daniel Riazat wants to talk about it, I will of course talk to him about it. I'm a builder from the beginning. I know that the construction companies that existed in Sweden and that did not keep the quality were perhaps one or two jobs, and then they lost it. I believe that exactly the same structure will apply to those free schools or fitness centres where it is intended to put money in places where they will not do any good. They're going to disappear. Perhaps they will exist for a short time and perhaps cause one or another student's bad choices so that he has to re-elect and come somewhere else, but I do not think that venture capital companies will be a problem as Mr Riazat here wants to lift it up, Mr President. Instead, I see free schools as an asset. I believe that Daniel Riazat, along with me, knows that if we had not had the free schools, we would never have been able to accommodate the 71 000 people who have arrived now. There the free schools go in voluntarily and choose to take a space to receive people who come – and not only those who come but also the others. Then I don't know if Daniel Riazat sat and did anything else with the phone or anything and didn't listen to what I said, but in the primary school debate I mentioned that the students who achieve by far the greatest success today are newly arrived girls. They're the fastest climbers in the system. Here I see no problem whatsoever that we should have a specific focus. If Daniel Riazat himself has not been inside and looked, I recommend that he look at the ombudsman.se. There are all the statistics on all students throughout Sweden and how their grades have gone. It clearly shows that second generation boys who live in segregated areas and have other opportunities to make money – it is unfortunately through the criminal route or perhaps illegal routes – choose this opportunity and opt out of school. There's the biggest group that's going down. It is not the new arrivals; we have never said that.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-471	Mr President, I would like to I still think that you have to give Stefan some kind of credd because he quite skilfully slips away from the question I asked. It was about how it came about that the Swedish democrats for the election went out to limit the profits in the well-being of it. This meant something to him and to the others who represent the Swedish Democrats, but after having had meetings with the business community they changed their mind. Today, they have chosen to become the best friend of venture capitalists. It has been chosen to give resources to those sitting here in the audience and to those who have tax accounts in tax havens. How is it to be a responsible party? Since before, we know that the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats as such cannot be implemented unless measures are taken, I believe, that we all want to distance ourselves from. Why did the Swedish Democrats change their minds on this point? Also try not to use rhetorical tricks when it comes to newly arrived chips etcetera, Stefan Jakobsson! I am one of the children who have come here as refugees, and it is hardly the case that the policy of the Swedish Democrats should have benefited me or will benefit any of my sisters and brothers who come today. So you don't have to tell me. However, one can see the paradox of a party that is trying to build a line of conflict between people from another country, who have a different culture and origin, and welfare – while the welfare problem is irresponsible politicians on the right, including representatives of the Swedish Democrats, and entrepreneurs as venture capitalists who undermine our welfare on resources. I believe that the Swedish democrats should be a little clearer about their voters, who voted for them with the promise that they would limit the benefits of welfare. Otherwise you lie, just as people expect some politicians to do.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-476	Mr President, I would like to I can take an example of how the Swedish Democrats have changed their policies. Previously, if you were to apply to start school, you applied to the Swedish School Inspectorate and then got a yes or no. There the municipality had almost no say. Then I know that the government had a proposal to introduce a municipal veto. We said we were willing to sit down and think about what that would mean. But we chose an intermediate route; we are pragmatic. We were looking at how you could do this. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the free schools can apply, and then the municipalities can appeal. We have also proposed a special agency in the Swedish School Inspectorate whose only task is to take care of these specific applications, so that there is an equivalence across Sweden. No, it's not the Alliance's policy. No, it's not government policy. But it's a middle ground in between. We are pragmatic and thus direct the welfare where we think it is good. We are a middle party, and we are trying to stand by that, Mr President. That we'd be corporate best friend, I'll leave it unsaid. Perhaps there are others who would like to take that title, Mr President. Then, unfortunately, Daniel Riazat cannot help but try to give us some epithet. I can only give an example of everyone's interest here. The Swedish Democrats have more local representatives who are born abroad than the Centers, KD, Moderates and Liberals have. Certainly, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Social Democrats are just above us in percentage terms. But these are local representatives who are born abroad. So that means that we would have to fire about 20 percent of our candidates in the kingdom. This does not work and is no longer sustainable, especially now that the Social Democrats and the government are pursuing a policy that is tougher than what we ourselves proposed a few years ago.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-483	Mr President, I would like to One of the most accepted links in economic research is that what has a high tax will be less of it and that what has a low tax will be more of it. One of the best decisions that Parliament can make for jobs and the economy is therefore to reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship while raising them on environmental degradation. Moreover, taxes are less distortive. This simple principle was followed in the Alliance during our eight years in power. We reduced income taxes and corporate taxes while at the same time increasing the CO2 tax and rewarding environmental cars through bonuses, to take a few examples. Other measures with C-labelled ministers were the increase of the nuclear waste levy in accordance with the parliamentary decision. The nuclear industry itself had to take the cost of the operation. In addition, we prepared and developed the basis for the introduction of bonus – malus systems for cars, fees for plastic bags and more. These are reforms of which we have seen nothing. It is clear that the current government has not only buried a green tax shift as an idea, but is doing exactly the opposite. Government policy is directly counterproductive in this area. Taxes are introduced that disadvantage renewables and instead create incentives to use fossil fuels. Mr President, I would like to When the government presented its tax increases in the autumn budget bill, they were not only high. Eighty percent of the taxes on jobs were raised. The share of environmental taxes was only about 10 per cent. Let me take two examples where it is obvious that the government has lost its steering oar in the green tax policy. First of all, the tax on biofuels has been increased. For a long time, Sweden has fought with the European Commission to avoid increased taxation on biofuels, as the Commission has argued unreasonablely that biofuels have been overcompensated compared to fossil fuels. Only six months after we received a new government, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson announced that this struggle had been lost. The tax on ethanol was raised by a crown liter. The tax increases from 2015 and so far in 2016 have led to an acute situation in which ethanol sales are record low and biodiesel volumes plummet. This is because the tax increases on biofuels have come into force while the oil price is record low. For example, the industry expects an annual volume decrease of 150 000 cubic metres of biodiesel, and it is accelerating. At the same time, ethanol sales are record low. Sales of E85 fell by 40 per cent in 2015. In December, the fall was as much as 55 per cent. Mr President, I would like to One of the most important measures to meet climate challenges and meet the ambitions of the Paris climate summit is to replace fossil fuels with renewables. Here, the government must act urgently and create acceptable conditions for vehicle fuels based on renewable substrates. A new report from the Swedish Energy Agency shows that the tax increases were completely unnecessary and that they have significantly reduced the competitiveness of biofuels compared with fossil petrol and diesel. The report shows that the government's tax increases have been more favourable to fossil fuels overcompensated against renewables. It turns out that no overcompensation has taken place for any biofuels in 2015. As a result, the government's tax increases were completely unjustified. The only reasonable thing must be for the government to reward renewables, as long-term and good conditions for renewable fuels are of the utmost importance in order to cope with further transition. Mr President, I would like to Solar power and wind power for own use were exempt during the time of the Alliance. There we had begun to see a rapid development. Among other things, housing associations and hospitals set up solar panels for their electricity supply. However, in an agreement on the electricity certificates with Norway, Sweden negotiated the Swedish tax exemption on solar and wind power. The Alliance government received the same demands but held back in the negotiations. I am very concerned that the government is announcing more and more taxes that lead to fewer jobs with little or no impact on the environment. Unfortunately, the government continues to argue for and prepare for the introduction of what is called a toll. It's nothing but a treasure from a distance. A distance-based kilometre tax will particularly affect businesses and people living and working in rural areas. Controls that have a one-sided focus on distance rather than on fuel and emissions should be avoided for obvious reasons. The environmental impact of such instruments is very low, as alternative transport infrastructure is lacking in many places in the country, while jobs dependent on truck transport are affected. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by commenting on the 3027 Centre Movement that the Parliament should support the demand to review the abolition of advertising tax on commercial advertising, and then we are talking about paper magazines. It is a position that both governments and parliaments, independently of the majority, have taken on several occasions over several decades. In a situation where the papers are on their knees, the requirement is more relevant than ever. Mr President, I would like to I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but for time to come, I only call for reservation No 3 on energy tax.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-498	Mr President, I would like to This is my first debate in the Committee on Taxation, and I was not aware that I had such very important things to say about excise duties. That is why I would like to say right now that I will probably be taking over my speaking time. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservations 1 and 5. Mr President, I would like to Schools, health care, care and infrastructure initiatives – Sweden is one of the world's best countries to live in and will continue to be so in the future. This obviously requires that the government has income to cope with efforts and meet challenges. What is good should be pursued, and certain phenomena, such as high carbon dioxide emissions, are undesirable and should be combated. Taxing different goods and services in a modern society is therefore a way for the state to raise funds for its efforts, to lift what is good and to counteract unwanted behaviour. Mr President, I would like to In the committee's report, the words and costs of the national economy are used as an argument for the Red-Green Government to introduce a kilometre tax on heavy goods vehicles. I will come back to this proposal later, but I think that precisely the words are essential for the national economy, when we are now debating the effect of various taxes. What can be good for the public purse in the short term can in the longer term be disastrous for various industries, Swedish jobs and, in the long term, our well-being. The Red Green Government does not seem to realise this and has introduced and threatens to introduce taxes that are directly harmful to our businesses and jobs and to the possibility for people to work and live in rural areas. Last year, the impact tax on nuclear power was increased from 14% to 17%. In interpellation debates, Minister Ibrahim Baylan argued that this was a purely fiscal tax and that the alliance government also increased the impact tax. What the government either did not understand or did not want to admit was that this tax is very much governing. Raising taxes in times of surplus and good margins is one thing. But to do so when all power strokes are on their knees because of historically low electricity prices and poor, not to say negative, profitability is directly incompetent. Regardless of what you think about nuclear power, it currently accounts for about 40% of the Swedish electricity supply. What has happened since the tax increase is that four reactors are being shut down. The owners of the remaining six reactors signal very clearly that these too are in danger of rapid decommissioning. The nuclear industry is currently facing major investment decisions in nuclear safety. It needs information today as to what the government intends to do. The Swedish electricity-intensive industry is worried, the IF Metall trade union is very worried and we in here should be worried. But what does the government do? Absolutely nothing. The Government refers the question to the Energy Commission, which has the task of developing an energy policy for Sweden that will apply after 2025. But the nuclear industry needs answers now. Earlier in the winter there was some hope that the government might begin to realize its mistake. Both Löfven and Baylan acknowledged that the EAT is not just a fiscal matter, but that it is also in charge and leads to a rapid shutdown of our electricity production. Unfortunately, it seems to have stopped at these empty words. No further information has been received, and now we are facing a situation in which we need to shut down 40% of our electricity production by 2020 because the necessary investments in nuclear safety are not being made. Mr President, I would like to This does not only show incompetence. It is directly harmful and dangerous for companies, jobs and Swedish welfare. We realise that the proposed reduction of the impact tax by Moderates to the previous level of 14% is not enough. But it is a clear signal from us that we recognise the seriousness and are prepared to take further steps to secure Swedish electricity production. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the government's harmful tax policy does not stop at that. The diesel tax was increased at the turn of the year with the result that the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry is deteriorating. Instead, we need a reduction in diesel tax in order to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry. We Moderates believe that the costs of agricultural and forestry transport should be at levels that do not hamper competitiveness. In addition, the Government also intends to introduce a distance-based truck tax. It is tax costs that make rural businesses less competitive. We say no to harmful tax increases on transport. Instead, we are making an effort with reduced tax on diesel for agriculture in order to reduce costs and strengthen competitiveness. We increase the reduction by 50 øre per litre. This effort is greater than the government's total compensation for agriculture and forestry.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-517	Mr President, I would like to A common thread in the red-green government's tax policy seems to be taxing everything that moves and that enables businesses and people to live outside the big cities. Now it is also being investigated how a flight tax can be introduced. The red-greens think you should choose other options. Who are not quite clear, but probably meant trains. A trip from Haparanda to Malmö takes at the fastest 21 hours and 27 minutes, according to SJ's information. If you're just going to Stockholm, you'll get the fastest from Haparanda to Stockholm in 13 hours and 28 minutes. This is not socially sustainable if you really want the whole of Sweden to live. It is time for the government to either admit that it does not protect the countryside or, if it actually does, to stop penalising everything that makes it possible to operate outside Stockholm. Mr President, I would like to We will of course highlight and promote the options that are good for climate and the environment. That is why we are today in favour of the reservation on the long-term prospects for biofuels. It will pay to do the right thing, and we will make it easier to do the right thing. We need to break the fossil dependency of the fleet of vehicles. For this reason, Mr Oderatians wants the lower taxation of biofuels to apply for four years instead of just one year at a time. A long-term perspective and an opportunity for these fuels and the vehicles that use biofuels to develop must be put in place to make them competitive. Together with the investment in biofuels, it is important to tax the vehicles that pollute. That is why in our budget motion we proposed an increase in vehicle tax by lowering the CO2 limit from 111 grams per kilometre to 108 grams per kilometre. This tax increase not only governs but strengthens the state's finances by 360 million per year. Mr President, I would like to Is there nothing positive to say about the red-green government's tax policy? After all, I must pay tribute to the government for actually following up on one of Parliament's 135 announcements to date by not reintroducing a tax on fertilizers. It is a tax that would otherwise be unique to Sweden and would damage the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. Swedish agriculture today lives under a high tax burden compared to its competitors. The non-reintroduction of the commercial manure tax is a good thing, but unfortunately the proposed indexation of taxes on fuels, the proposed kilometre levy and the proposed meat tax remain. A country's tax system should secure income and lead to the desired development. Unfortunately, the Red-Green Government does not do this. With today's tax pressure, we risk impoverishing companies, losing jobs and risking our well-being. Unfortunately, the costs to the national economy quoted above have a different meaning for the red-greens than for us. We, Mr President, want a tax system that benefits the whole of Sweden, companies and jobs and not just Magdalena Andersson's wallet.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-527	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to stay on schedule. In this report, SkU18 Excise duties, the Swedish Democrats have four reservations. We are in favour of all these, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 2. Excise duties, taxes on specific goods and services, act as instruments for influencing production and consumption in a particular direction. The Swedish Democrats have no objection to excise duties being used to divert the use of products that are harmful to public health and the environment. We note that excise duties make a welcome contribution to the public purse. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's 2015 statistical yearbook, excise duties increased in 2009–2014 by over SEK 120 billion per year, although they decreased slightly since 2010. What we have repeatedly objected to is how certain excise duties affect the Swedish countryside. A very large part of Sweden's area consists of rural areas. That these parts of Sweden continue to live stands and falls with those who live and work there. We want to balance what we perceive as a big city fixation by to some extent turning the focus towards the part of Sweden that lies outside the big cities. We believe that Sweden is a whole and that what is good for the countryside is good for the whole of Sweden. One issue in the area of excise duty which has been repeatedly debated in this House ever since the Swedish Democrats entered Parliament in 2010 and which the previous speaker raised is the tax on fertilizers. On at least two occasions when this has been dealt with in this House, the Swedish Democrats, through their wave-mastership, have managed to prevent a reintroduction. We note with some relief that the report signals that the government will not press for a reintroduction in the near future. However, we would have liked to have clarified this with an announcement to the government, but we must be content with the positive spirit that we still have in the report. As far as rural areas are concerned, the Swedish Democrats have insisted that a so-called road-wear tax should not be introduced, which we believe risks affecting those who live and work in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to The report on excise duties rejects a Swedish democratic motion that the energy tax for operators with server halls as the main activity should be equated with that of the energy-intensive industry, i.e. 0.5 øre per kilowatt-hour. The report on excise duties of last year referred to an ongoing study on how, among other things, server halls are treated in a tax-like manner. The investigation was completed last fall. This year's report, which we are debating now, rejects the motion on the grounds that the Government Office is currently preparing the conclusions of this investigation. I've looked through the investigation as quickly as possible. I must admit, Mr President, that I have not read every word, but I still think I have found that the conclusions are quite well in line with our request. So this applies to SOU 2015:87, where it says: In addition to those sectors that currently use a lot of electricity, the use in other sectors may increase. The most obvious example is large-scale data centres and server halls, for which there is a growing need. With a cold climate, Sweden has a competitive advantage vis-à-vis southern countries, as the equipment can then be cooled with cheap, cold air. Despite this, the use of electricity is extensive. The study estimates that further expansion of data halls could increase electricity use to 4-5 TWh on an annual basis in 2030. ..................................................... The report also states that, according to the study's assessment, some companies operating in the data centre industry are both electricity-intensive and exposed to international competition. Two factors have been considered to justify a lower tax rate under the current model. Taking this into account and the potential to support the development of a new industry... that can create new jobs in Sweden, the study considers that there are sufficient reasons to propose a lower tax rate for the data centre industry. The investigation therefore makes such a proposal. ... The lower tax rate currently applicable to manufacturing in industrial activities is proposed to apply to data centres where a trader, mainly engaged in information service activities, information processing or rental of server space and related services, carries out such activities. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I take this as very positive, and it will also be positive, provided that the government chooses to take these conclusions into account in its preparation. A slightly less positive response has been given to our motion on the taxation of biofuels. The argument put forward to increase the use of biofuels is essentially the climate benefit that they generate. There is, in itself, reason to question this, at least in the case of first generation biofuels. The cultivation of new land, which is the consequence of increased use of these fuels, changes land use in a way that generates a carbon debt that will take many decades to compensate for. Research has highlighted clear conflicts between first generation biofuel production and global food security. We are therefore proposing a broader analysis of the benefits of these fuels, which should be carried out. There, the majority of the committee has responded to something which, in any case, I take as meaning that the increased use of biofuels is superior to everything else.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-543	Mr President, I would like to Excise duties are a tempting subject for a government and offer many opportunities to strengthen the public purse and pay for other investments you want to make. It can be about taxes on road transport, waste, electricity, fuels and aircraft, manure tax, alcohol tax, tobacco tax etc., taxes that I think affect the individual and which should be used with great care and long thought. Many of these taxes lie on parts that we want to see society use less of, such as alcohol tax and tobacco tax. Here, rather, the fineness lies in balancing an increase in these taxes in a way that has the intended effect and reduces consumption. It is not always easy to say on a straight arm what will be the best for society at large. But I think the goal is clear to all of us: Public health needs to be improved, and those who are most affected in terms of abuse need to receive care and care so that they can get out of it. Human value is the same when you are addicted to addiction, but the care of the close and society must be very high. There are also windmills that can be fought against, or excise duties that do not have the intended effect at all, more than being able to finance any other part of the budget that you want to implement. In the budget bill, the government announced the introduction of a commercial manure tax on 1 January 2016. Now the reality became another, which I am happy about. The government realised that additional charges on our farmers are the wrong way to go, while the purpose had not been achieved at all. We Christian Democrats believe that the government should clearly declare that it does not intend to reintroduce taxes on fertilizers. What our farmers need is our support for the future and as equal as possible for farmers in other EU countries, not the uncertainty about costs and profitability. You can also benefit from excise duty what you still think is good for society as a whole, or rather benefit it by removing tax. Swedish sport has about 600 000 non-profit leaders who struggle daily for children and young people to develop. In many of our young people's eyes, they are a role model and have a major impact on future values. Getting into a community, being able to socialize, create and develop with others is something we as a society should encourage. We also see that our young people are moving far too little. Sport helps a lot of people move more. The fact that you then as a non-profit leader or as an association try to get the money enough for the activities you want to carry out is bad enough. We as decision-makers cannot appreciate enough these non-profit leaders who set aside time, energy and commitment to help create the future good citizens of society. It does not feel right that you then have an advertising tax that makes it difficult for the association to make ends meet. Let these leaders do what they actually want and are best at, so that they can spend more time on the mission that they are passionate about than picking up money and paying the tax that we decide they should pay. Removing the advertising tax on non-profit associations would not least give sports associations more money for their activities for children and young people. In addition, the administrative burden would be reduced. The government has set up an investigation that shows how a flight tax could be designed. We all agree on the goal that aviation should reduce its emissions and thus its impact on our environment. What is interesting is that it is envisaged to introduce a flight tax which will, in principle, make it extremely difficult for regional airports to survive. For my part, one can think of a way to encourage alternative fuels and research into it. We should remember that communications are becoming increasingly important for our regions and their development. Many of our train paths are currently fully exploited, and given the government's continued work on high-speed trains, the current main routes do not teach priority for deployment. With that, Mr President, I was going to allow others to use the time – there are many who exceed their speaking time – and to call for approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 14 on advertising tax.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-554	Mr President, I would like to For many years Swedish fiscal policy was a policy whose objective was not, in substance, taxes, more than financing large collective investments in society and important social reforms that we jointly decide on. Taxes would even out differences between classes, between generations and between different parts of our country, not least by what we do with the tax resources on the expenditure side. It is a tax policy that has created the conditions for everyone to make important life choices without fear. It is a policy that is based on everyone contributing and where all individuals regardless of gender through their own livelihood can be independent, with both rights and responsibilities. It is a tax system that finances general, generous welfare programmes from the cradle to the grave and forms the basis for the reputable Swedish model, a model that has also given Swedish and Nordic women more of equality than in other countries. Essentially, this is still the case. But it should be clear to everyone that generosity has been reduced and that generality is called into question by various demands on the part of the public against the citizen. During the eight bourgeois years of government, priorities have not been to provide the resources required for general welfare but instead to have been on the basis of severe tax cuts. As the beneficial and governing effects of the tax system decrease and the gaps in society widen, especially in the question of the ability of the whole country to grow, the requirements for excise duties with direct reunification to localities or counties, such as mining tax and hydropower tax, also increase to give some examples from my county of Norrbotten. Today's report, however, does not primarily cover fiscal tax policy, but precisely excise duties, which have as their main objective the control of consumption in order to achieve common objectives in selected areas, such as public health, and to meet the environmental objectives decided by Parliament. I hereby reject the motions dealt with in the report. In spring 2015, the Cooperation Government set up a Commission on Equal Health. The Commission is tasked with making proposals to help close the health gaps in society within a generation. It is a government objective that the opposition should conclude behind. The Commission's main focus is health differences between different socio-economic groups in society. Smoking and alcohol use, especially among young people, are two parts that affect public health. One way of controlling consumption is precisely excise duties, which are needed to achieve the objectives, but which need to be considered from an efficiency point of view and complemented by additional financing measures. For example, the Cooperation Government wants to investigate measures to reduce, among other things, the number of smokers and new users of tobacco products and has in 2015 provided additional directives to the ongoing investigation into the implementation of the EU Tobacco Products Directive. There is a bill on Parliament's table and also a letter on a comprehensive policy against alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco that will lead to 2020. Mr President, I would like to Excise duties also play a significant role in achieving the environmental objectives set by Parliament. When the cooperation government took over, we could sum up that Sweden was facing the threat of missing 14 out of 16 environmental goals, a distressing factor for bourgeois and center party environmental policies. In order to take this issue seriously and achieve these objectives, monitoring stations are required to follow up the climate and energy targets set for 2020, among others, a letter from the Ministry of Environment and Energy as late as the end of January. Long-term and predictability is one of the issues at the top of the agenda when we are asked by the actors covered by the objectives of reducing environmental and climate impact. Therefore, the government believes that cross-block work is important, like the Energy Commission, but also to ensure that the measures put in place provide for the possibility of conversion by Swedish companies, for example through a gradual increase in the CO2 tax on heating fuels outside the trading system. This gives more time for the companies concerned to switch energy use, while at the same time enabling them to be at the forefront. We must ensure that the Paris climate agreement succeeds and increase the economy with our resources so that future generations also have good living conditions. The need for a change in the future will hardly be less, but will rather increase. Account has also been taken of the exposed competitive situation of Swedish agriculture and forestry. Therefore, the Government proposed in the budget bill, which was adopted by the Riksdag, that the industry as a whole be compensated for the increase made by the energy tax on diesel in 2016. Therefore, the current CO2 tax reduction for agricultural and forestry machinery is increased to SEK 1.43 per litre. The increase represents a compensation of SEK 199 million per year. The cooperation government wants to further strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry to see increased food production in Sweden. Therefore, the reduction in CO2 tax is further increased by 27 öre so that it totals 1.70 SEK per litre. The additional increase costs SEK 100 million. The Co-operation Government announced in the Budget Bill that it does not intend to reintroduce the tax on commercial fertilisers. This is the reason for the announcement made by the Riksdag to the Government. Instead, the government wants to analyse the need for other forms of taxation in order to reduce the spread of heavy metals and other environmentally hazardous substances in nature. To ignore the measures required is not to take care of future generations. The development of biofuels has been mentioned earlier in the debate. It is an important part of achieving the objective of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, while it is of great importance for new jobs and a new market for our forest raw materials, not least for the part of the country from which I come. The Cooperation Government is working to find solutions that provide stable and long-term rules of play that are compatible at EU level. The question also has to be asked: if we do not make this adjustment, what does that mean for those who are market players? Well, there's a risk that they'll end up in a situation where they'll be repayable. In the talks we are having with the actors, it is quite clear that this is not a situation in which they want to get into. I note that the bourgeois government failed with the quota duty proposed at the time. It was simply thrown into the trash. The Cooperation Government is aware of the time pressure and the major investments that are at risk of not being made unless we ensure that a solution is found in the long term when it comes to the obligation to commit and to interference. Finally, I would like to sum up how important it is to have a government that sees the whole country, because the wurm of this pulpit has largely concerned the part of the country in which I live. I am well aware of how far it is between Haparanda and Stockholm. I can only take the perspective in my home country, i.e. between Kiruna and Piteå. It's a big country we live in. I note that only last week the government rejected the proposal in the investigation to remove the reduction in Norrland tax. Instead, the government has presented an alternative for keeping it, precisely because it sees the whole country. Fortunately, we note today that the Swedish Tax Agency is backing away from closing some offices around the country, precisely because there is a clear signal from politics that it is important to see the whole country. With regard to the reduction in the energy tax on digital industry, I have been one of the actors who has been very active, both during the opposition period and with the current government, in order to provide an opportunity for the start-up of digital industry. Unlike David Lång, I've been reading this investigation. In addition, I, along with other representatives of the government parties, have an active dialogue. I look forward to the government's response to the proposal from the investigation that was submitted last autumn.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-577	Mr President, I would like to I should like to begin by commenting on the introduction of Hannah Bergstedt's speech, when she spoke about state revenue. I would just like to point out to her that the state's revenue actually increased by SEK 40 – 70 billion per year during the time of the alliance government, thanks to the fact that we were conducting a tax policy that favoured jobs and businesses. I have a question for Hannah Bergstedt about the impact tax. We know that the nuclear industry must now invest very large sums of money in an independent safety system for meltdowns. For them to be able to do so, they must know that it is actually possible to produce electricity from nuclear power in Sweden in the future. There are clear demands from the energy industry and from the Metal trade union that the future of nuclear power must be secured. We know that the power shortage in Sweden will increase if nuclear power disappears. My question to Hannah Bergstedt is whether she shares Ibrahim Baylan's view that the decision on the levels of the impact tax should be referred to the Energy Commission, which has the task of developing an energy policy that will apply after 2025, when we know that the remaining six nuclear reactors will not be granted an exemption after 2020 unless they have invested in an independent security system for meltdowns.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-581	Mr President, I would like to We note that the lack of profitability in many parts of the energy sector is essentially due to the price of the electricity market. Then the need for higher safety requirements, which became the effect of the Fukushima accident, is a burden on nuclear power. At the same time, long-term dialogue with the sector returns. If I understood the question correctly, it is important when it comes to the energy issue that we find block-crossing long-term agreements. It is an area in which criticism is repeatedly expressed. Therefore, the answer to this question should be that it is obviously important that we work with a long-term perspective even when it comes to energy supply and the nuclear issue. The fact that the proposal is being processed in the Energy Commission is part of this.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-584	Mr President, I would like to Long-term is good. However, if we do not get to decide how the impact tax will develop today, there will be no nuclear power after 2020. 40% of Sweden's electricity supply will disappear from the system. We will be dependent on importing dirty coal power from Germany and Denmark. There is a calculation from Profu that shows that Swedish CO2 emissions will increase radically only because the four reactors that have been decided on will be closed down. The red-green cooperation government is only 50% represented here today. There is no representative from the Green Party in the Chamber, which I find very remarkable. We must be able to tell the industry today how the impact tax will develop. Otherwise, the necessary investments will not be made. Then nuclear power stations must be shut down, not because they are bad, but because they do not comply with the very safety requirements that the honourable Member has pointed out today. We need to know. That is why I repeat the question. Does Mrs Bergstedt support Ibrahim Baylan's reference to the Energy Commission as regards the future of the impact tax? It is a decision that cannot be taken after 2025, but must be taken today.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-589	Mr President, I would like to In the short term, one of the most important decisions to secure the supply of electricity is that the Riksdag is tearing up the decision to phase out the power tax reserve. We believe that it should be extended beyond 2020. When it comes to the question of who is going to deal with this and what the Red-Green Government thinks about it, I still note that we are a minority government that also wants broad block-crossing agreements on such an important issue as energy. I note, as has come from the representatives of the bourgeois side, that it is quite difficult to reach agreement. The Center Party has bought government policy, the Moderates and Christian Democrats want to drive a restorer and the Liberals want to abolish it completely. If we are to talk about long-term agreements and rules of play in this area, we need to work in the Energy Commission. That is where the proposals are to come and the decisions are to be taken.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-593	Mr President, I would like to Today, when we are discussing punctuation taxes, we are discussing something that finances welfare to a significant extent. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, this is about 120 billion a year. A well-functioning operation throughout Sweden is crucial for this to work. Therefore, I can take this opportunity to welcome today's announcement from the Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency, Ingemar Hansson, that the local tax offices will remain. It is a victory for politics and for everyone in tax offices who has fought for their jobs. Mr President, I would like to A tax system that is fair and legitimate is crucial. Equally crucial is the use of taxes to promote public health, consumption patterns and the goal of achieving a sustainable world that takes climate challenges seriously. With the help of excise duties, we influence people's behaviour and can make it easier for people to choose the options that are good for society as a whole in everyday life. It is crucial that we get a road wear charge on site as soon as possible. The Left Party therefore welcomes the investigation that was set up last spring and looks forward to its analysis. For us, it is crucial for a number of reasons, which I would like to mention here. This increases the opportunities for steering towards environmentally friendly vehicles. A road user charge also increases the possibility of controlling heavy road transport. A road wear charge contributes to the transfer of long-distance transport to both trains and shipping. And a road user charge ensures that all transport, regardless of origin, can contribute to the costs. In addition, the charges estimated in various estimates at 4 billion enable new investments in infrastructure. Another investigation that the Left Party welcomes and awaits is the investigation of tax on air travel. Aviation must bear its own climate costs to a much greater extent than it is today. We need to design a system that allows more people to opt out of aviation and make more environmentally friendly choices. This is important, not least in view of the outcome of the Paris climate summit in December 2015. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party also wants to abolish the advertising tax which both the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have raised. It is clear in the 2016 budget bill that the government now intends to take further steps to make that possible. There will therefore be such proposals in the near future. We welcome that. Mr President, I would like to All in all, taxes in Sweden need to be increased in all areas, in order for us to be able to finance the welfare that we all need to take part in. It is a welfare that needs to fund nurses, health workers and preschool teachers. Excise duties are an important contribution to creating a sustainable and strong welfare society. I therefore call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-600	Mr President, I would like to Tax procedures cover a wide range of areas. There is legislation on the whole process of payment of taxes, including declarations, control data and more. The report is a so-called motion report. This means that all the motions written by elected MPs are handled but also motions written by parties or committees. There are many good ideas and suggestions here. Although they are unlikely to be approved, there is the possibility that they will eventually be implemented. Ideas are awakened, and if they are good, they are captured by parties and, at best, transformed into proposals. Of the 68 motions in the report, 22 are about increasing the transparency of the tax system in different ways. MEPs are concerned that we Swedes do not know how much tax we actually pay. Several proposals suggest that employers' contributions should be made visible on the salary statement. Transparency in the tax system is important. In a country like Sweden, where we pay high taxes and therefore expect a relatively comprehensive welfare system, it is crucial that the tax system has high legitimacy. If we have confidence in the tax system, because everyone who can contribute and that the money goes to what we decide, the Swedes are generally willing to pay tax. Confidence in the Swedish tax system increased during the reign of the Alliance. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's measurements, acceptance of the tax system in Sweden increased significantly between 2006 and 2012. In 2012, only 25 per cent of citizens disliked the Swedish tax system compared with 47 per cent in 2006. 25% is a historically low figure. Other measurements show that the acceptance of tax evasion has decreased. Something happened, then, over the years with the Alliance, which increased confidence in the tax system and which we should all like to take care of. The Swedish Tax Agency works according to the motto that it should be easy to do the right thing. That is an approach that I feel also includes tax policy. Although we do not agree on how much tax we should pay or what the tax should be used for at all times, the ambition of new proposals or improvements to existing laws is often to make it easier, reduce administration and create the conditions for competition on equal terms between companies. The tax procedure also covers what happens when you are not doing well. This is where all the work going on against tax evasion and tax evasion is at national and international level. During the time of the Alliance, a wide network of information exchange agreements was developed. As a direct consequence of them and bilateral tax treaties, Sweden has received just over 3 billion in additional tax revenues. On the global stage, the OECD, on behalf of the G20 countries, has developed a package of actions with various concrete measures to combat tax avoidance and tax evasion in what is known as BEPS, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. Everyone's against tax evasion. However, when the OECD started the project, it did not begin by identifying the size of the problem. What exactly is the amount of tax evasion among the major multinationals? This survey has only been carried out afterwards. It turns out the problem may not be as big as it was thought. It is estimated to be about 5% of tax revenue. Now, however, relatively far-reaching measures will affect all multinational companies. Not least for Sweden, which is a small and export-dependent country, there is a serious risk that taxation that is taking place with us will be reduced. The European Commission is working on proposals to try to ensure that the measures are implemented in the same way throughout the EU. Much is therefore happening in this area. It is fast and there are, unfortunately, strong reasons to be vigilant about the consequences for Swedish tax bases and tax revenues. What the government announces for 2016 regarding new reforms to combat tax evasion, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning thus largely concerns the work that has been going on for several years but where Swedish attention is still needed. It is not least a question of reminding the EU that taxes are within the competence of the nation states; they are not matters on which the EU decides. The Alliance has three joint movements. The first is that control data on employees' wages and taxes should be provided monthly by employers to both the Swedish Tax Agency and the employee. The labour market is more mobile today. We therefore consider that annual control data are no longer sufficient. The second motion is that we believe that the Swedish Tax Agency should be tasked with measuring and mapping the time that companies spend on tax administration and then proposing concrete measures aimed at reducing tax administration. We believe that everyone will win if administration is reduced. The Swedish Tax Agency has extensive knowledge and experience in this area and therefore good conditions for being able to come up with suitable proposals. The third exercise is about the need to strengthen the protection of personal data of threatened and persecuted persons through changes in legislation and developed administrative procedures. Although the Alliance Government took several initiatives in this area, more needs to be done. We are in favour of the three alliance reservations, but we are only in favour of reservation 11 on reduced tax administration.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-616	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 12 in the report. The report deals with motions submitted by Members of Parliament to Parliament during the general period of exercise. It is our way of making legislative proposals in Parliament. The report we are now debating deals with such proposals, in the area of tax procedures and civil records. The Swedish Democrats have submitted seven different motions with proposals for improved legislation on a number of issues in these areas. We have chosen to table only one reservation in this matter, although we believe that many of our other proposals are also worth a better fate than being rejected. Before I go into the content of the reservation, I will mention a few of our other proposals that would make a significant contribution to a better Sweden. In four different forms of exercise, we point out, among other things, that all employees should be informed of the proportion of the salary space actually allocated to taxes. It should be self-evident that statutory social security contributions are recorded on all pay slips, so that employees are told how much they actually contribute to the general level every month. It is basically a question of democracy and transparency. The problem should be easily resolved by the social partners, but unfortunately the social-democratic trade unions have been fighting this for a very long time. We believe that the state should go ahead and introduce such a report on all pay slips to government employees. It's not hard. As an entrepreneur, I know it's very simple. I have been using this method since the beginning of the 1980s. It doesn't cost anything. The aim is to lead the way to more transparent tax information, where the state really has an important role to play. As we heard the representative of the Moderates here say, this is a very important issue. We will definitely return to it in the Riksdag in other contexts. In motion 3081, we point to the problems of insensitive handling of tax surcharges, which punish many who have not committed a crime in the legal sense, but have perhaps only been less careful or have erred in some task in their dealings with the Tax Agency. Of course, you shouldn't, but sometimes mistakes can happen. Then you are not supposed to be convicted and punished for an act in such a way that only a court should actually be able to impose punishment for. The problems of tax surcharges and also customs duties are talked about and dealt with in several other contexts, and we will continue to work towards greater legal certainty in this area. It is also a very important issue. It is ultimately a matter of trust in the entire tax system, and it is crucial for people to accept the tax rules that we have. Through our reservation, we follow up our motion No 1624 on the management of bilateral tax treaties and put our finger on a relationship that is very important for Sweden. In short, it can be said that the main task of the tax agreements is to create good conditions for trade and economic activity in general between two states. They are necessary to eliminate double taxation and non-taxation. Tax agreements regulate the conditions for labour exchange and economic development between other countries. Tax agreements also regulate the interaction between tax authorities, which is a prerequisite for the work against tax evasion. These factors, as well as the reports submitted by the Swedish National Audit Office and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise on the situation with the tax agreement book 2010 and 2014, are the basis for our assessment that the issue is so important. The situation is serious, as Sweden has, broadly speaking, refrained from working sufficiently actively to sign new ones and to update old tax treaties. Bad tax treaties give other countries' industries advantages in relation to the Swedish ones. We have thereby lost competitiveness vis-à-vis many countries in which our industry has competitors in several of the most important markets. In the long term, this is a threat to Swedish welfare. Mr President, I would like to We have pointed out these shortcomings on several occasions in the last year, partly through accompanying measures and partly through an intervention to the Minister for Finance. In the debates that we have had on the tax agreements since the start of the term of office, the representatives of the government parties have shown that they have not understood the point that Sweden is well placed to keep its tax treaty stock in good condition with contract content that benefits our industry and Swedish private individuals operating financially in different countries. Unfortunately, the alliance parties have also left the walkover on this important issue. It is sad because it means that Sweden loses billions every year in lost tax revenue, according to an assessment by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The deterioration in competitiveness is worsening as our tax revenues continue to deteriorate for a long time to come. Mr President, I would like to The pace of work in the Government Office on tax treaties remains shamefully low. So as for two updated and three new tax treaties, we are largely left in the situation regarding the tax treaty situation when the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise presented its follow-up report in 2014. The report shows that in 2014 we had tax agreements with 82 countries. Some of these countries together had 151 tax treaties in force with other countries which in one or more respects had more favourable conditions than they had in their agreements with Sweden. This is not sustainable for an export-dependent nation like Sweden. It is not good enough to draw attention to the fact that, in the meantime, you have devoted yourself to increasing the number of information exchange agreements. This is certainly also important, but in this industry you have to be able to hold more than one ball in the air at the same time. The importance of the slow pace, Mr President, is that we have had about 2.5 new or renegotiated agreements a year over the last two years. This is a pace which brings us further down in the statistics on the deterioration of competitiveness in relation to our competitor countries, although it looks like the rate may have slightly increased over the past year. The effect is that the Social Democrats continue to, against better knowledge, impair Swedish competitiveness. I would therefore like a clear and clear message from the representatives of the government parties about when something serious will happen with the tax agreements. When will the government start handing over new and renegotiated tax agreements to the Riksdag at a rate that will make Sweden's competitive position with other countries begin to improve significantly? How many tax treaties will land on Parliament's table during this Parliamentary Session?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-632	Mr President, I would like to Today's report contains many different issues that a large part of the population faces in their daily lives. How we as decision-makers handle tax procedures affects virtually everyone, both individuals and companies. Let me take an example. There has been tremendous progress in how we declare. Last year, more than 5 million people declared electronic t. As much as 12 percent declared by a simple text message. Step by step, there have been fewer forms and less time spent on administration. We must safeguard and develop this positive trend. Mr President, I would like to In today's report, we are also dealing with matters relating to cash registers, deferrals, young entrepreneurship and several other important issues. I want to stay at the point of countering tax evasion and undeclared work. The Alliance government was active and very successful in this area and carried out a number of reforms that have produced results in the form of reduced tax evasion. This leads to increased legitimacy of the tax system and increased tax revenues. It was not a coincidence, but a pronounced strategy. One of several reforms that had been particularly beneficial in reducing tax evasion was the so-called HUS deduction, or RUT and ROT deductions. Despite the fact that the government's budget, which represents a deterioration in these deductions, has been governing the country for just over two months, we have already seen a sharp decrease in the number of companies carrying out ROT work. It is not good for jobs and it is not good for our ability to bring in the resources that we need for welfare. It is just as bad that we can already see a change of attitude among the population towards using black labour. The Swedish Tax Agency's previous investigations show that the HUS deductions have contributed to not only changing people's attitudes towards undeclared work but also reduced in practical action how much people are prepared to pay for undeclared work. Now we can already see signs that there is again a more positive attitude towards undeclared work. This is worrying. This is where the government must demonstrate its capacity for action. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to see that confidence in the Swedish Tax Agency from Företagars verige is high and has increased in recent years. As is well known, it is not us politicians the entrepreneur meets in his daily work when the VAT is due and the declaration is to be submitted. These are forms and databases and sometimes long conversations with ambitious and talented employees at our tax authorities. In them there is much of the explanation for the positive picture. I share the concerns of Swedish entrepreneurs with the current government. It is the companies that will create the jobs that will give us tomorrow's welfare resources. Then we must move from words to concrete action, from words to workshops. The entrepreneur has little joy from a government office filled with coordinators presenting memos. The entrepreneur also has little pleasure in well-formulated debate pages and benevolent comments. Entrepreneurs want regulations that facilitate their operations. They want rules and taxes that mean a good climate to grow in. Companies want a climate of economic and fiscal policy that makes it attractive to hire. Then it is action and not words that are needed. Reforms for an increased tax base were an obvious direction for the Center Party and the Alliance in government. Then it is a prerequisite that companies are seen as self-evident creators of jobs and growth and therefore tax funds for the public – creators whose activities we must facilitate, not make it more difficult. The tax procedure, in all its components, is central to the entrepreneur. Does the Swedish Parliament today have the capacity to implement the reforms that generate the new resources that are needed? I'm afraid I'm not sure. Mr President, I would like to We have a big challenge in getting more people to start businesses and to want to run their businesses further. One of the main tasks of the state is to facilitate and make it as simple as possible. Anyone who runs a company knows that administration at least periodically steals too much valuable time from the core business. It is therefore important that the thresholds are not too high and that bureaucratic obstacles to setting up and running businesses are constantly being combated. In the Alliance, we are surprised that the Social Democrats and the Green Party do not want to identify the administrative burden on companies in the tax field. It is not something that can be done a little from time to time or pushed forward in time. It is a recurring activity that is absolutely necessary, not least because, through EU legislation, we regularly get new regulations that are added to the existing regulatory burden. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party and the Alliance, it was a central starting point during the reign that our tax rules should not discourage entrepreneurship and that the thresholds for starting a business should not be too high. It is a direction that we pursue purposefully and consistently. We in the Center Party are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for time winning I choose to apply for the approval of reservation no. 11.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-649	Mr President, I would like to As I said in the previous debate, it is important to have a functioning tax system in which everyone is doing the right thing. In order for us to be able to finance the preschool teacher, the nurse and the cleaning worker, but also for us to be able to provide aid, have a dignified asylum reception and invest in research and development, it is necessary that the tax system is simple and easy to understand, but also that we put an end to fraud and tax evasion. In this report, the Left Party has five different reservations, but in order to save time, I only call for reservation 4 on F-tax and business activities and reservation 5 on an action plan against tax evasion, undeclared work and social dumping. Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party welcome the work that the OECD has done to find common ways of combating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. The Left Party also welcomes the work of the EU. It is a good thing that this issue is a high priority right now. The tax evasion costs hundreds of billions each year. Both countries in the rich North and countries in the global South are affected, and the only winners are multinational big companies who are doing everything they can to escape their responsibilities towards the states in which they operate. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the capital flight from the developing world to the industrialised world transferred around USD 6 000 billion in 2001-2010. During the same period international aid to the same countries amounted to 677 billion dollars. Thus, for each aid crown, SEK 10 went back to the West through illegal and unaccounted for capital flows. The Left Party is fighting for a just world, where power and resources are fairly distributed without poverty and inequality. It is not possible to build such a world without taxing the income and profits made in the South. A high-quality Swedish development policy that produces results cannot therefore ignore the issue of capital flight. We have long had an exchange with the countries of the South where we have won the deal many times. This has enabled us to build a great and strong prosperity. But it is not reasonable for us to build our welfare at their expense. It is time they also had the chance to build up their welfare. The taxes that are evaded by the Swedish state through tax evasion and aggressive tax planning also amount to many billions. As a result, we cannot afford the strong welfare society that we should have. It affects those who live in Sweden, it affects those who work in Sweden and it affects the Swedish taxpayer collective. Money that should go to the nurse's salary and the nanny's workmates end up in the pockets of the richest percentage and disappear from our country. The automatic exchange of information introduced is crucial, as are the proposals on country-by-country reporting and many other proposals presented. However, there is a huge lack of transparency. The exchange and country-by-country reporting should only take place between the different tax authorities and will cover too few of the companies that should be covered. There must be a change here, so that the information is made available to researchers, activists, journalists – yes, the whole of civil society should be able to take part in it. It has been shown that cheating and evasion can often be revealed precisely through an active civil society. This is not least important in countries in the global south. Why the government in our various discussions does not push for this transparency, despite the fact that prior to the elections it was for such transparency and public country-by-country reporting, is for me a mystery. I hope that the government will change its position when the issue comes up later and make sure to push for public country-by-country reporting. Mr President, I would like to Last week, the Swedish Tax Agency presented a report on haulage operations in Sweden in 2015. It was an important report, but also a report that involves sad reading about the state of the situation and how much fiffles and arcs exist in that particular industry. It is the result of liberalisation, EU membership and social dumping. It is a race to the bottom that we in Parliament should do everything we can to put an end to. One of the methods used is to try to circumvent the rules by means of F-tax. This is something that has been facilitated by the relaxation of legislation that has been going on for years. This applies not only to the haulage industry, but to many different professions – construction workers, journalists, pilots and others. It is all about the pursuit of lower costs and reducing their responsibilities in relation to these mentioned professions. Our proposal is that a requirement to be approved for the F-tax note should be that you have several clients. It is one way of tackling the social dumping that has taken place in, for example, the truck industry, where it has gone so far as to have slave-like working conditions. It's actually a mafia business today. It is precisely F-tax notes that are used to avoid collective agreements and good conditions. It is not at all unreasonable for us to steer this up, because we want them to be able to compete on sound and equal terms. We do not want workers to have the situation they are in today. It is also crucial that we legislate for all companies active in Sweden to be registered, both in order for those who buy the services of companies to have an opportunity to assess the companies and for the Swedish Tax Agency to be able to do its work and carry out its audits. This is one of the three demands that the large industry group has made before the committee and in many other contexts in terms of creating competition on equal terms. In all my contacts with the Swedish Tax Agency, this requirement for registration is constantly being highlighted, not least after last week's report, which shows the urgency of the situation. The committee's response in the report therefore amazes me. It appears that the issue is being prepared in the Government Office. But in the reply of 16 December to a written question from me, Magdalena Andersson writes that no such work is going on. The Left Party calls on the government to act tougher, more decisive and faster. Half the term of office will soon have passed, and it should not be so difficult to move from words to actions on these issues. Mr President, I would like to The current government is much better at combating tax evasion and social dumping than the alliance government was. While the previous government saw only marginal problems and, instead, exacerbated the problems by the changes in the F-tax notes, the liberalisation of labour immigration and the reduction of demands on companies receiving wage subsidies from the Employment Service, this government wants to move in the right direction. It's welcome. However, there is a lack of a comprehensive action plan against tax evasion, undeclared work and social dumping, an action plan that systematically and systematically addresses the problems that exist across the board, which spans a longer period of time and effectively involves more authorities and the social partners for strong coordinated action. It is positive that we are now seeing monthly data reported at the individual level coming. The Left Party has been pushing this demand for many years. We hope that the government will not take this issue in the long term, but that we can get a system in place, as we hoped a year ago, not least in view of the Swedish Tax Agency's letter of 1 February proposing this very thing.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-667	Mr President, I would like to Sure, we're all happy when we get our first job. We can start paying for things ourselves, making our own choices and taking responsibility for the decisions we make based on the economic power we have. Unfortunately, what you get into your account is not the full cost to the entrepreneur or the municipality, but part of the cost. Studies show that Swedes in common do not know how high the tax burden is. An important reason for this is that much of the tax burden can be described as hidden. This is problematic for a number of reasons, not least because it makes it difficult for citizens to assess whether they get what is promised from the tax money paid. If much of the taxes are hidden from the citizens, it is also more difficult to create opinion for lower taxes, but at the same time easier to raise them. What can be done about this? Public employers must lead the way by more clearly reporting all taxes and contributions on the wage statement. The data should cover both the statutory contributions and the contributions agreed with the trade unions, so-called contractual insurance and contractual pensions. Some employers in both the private and public sectors already report this today, but most employees do not receive this information. In this context, too, the public sector should set an example and, as a matter of urgency, make taxes and contributions visible to the wage statement. We must ensure that people have knowledge of the overall tax burden, while at the same time increasing people's ability to make their own choices by reducing the overall tax burden. Their own choices and the opportunity to shape their lives are the future, and the choices for the individual family must be decided at home among the members of the family and not by members of the Swedish Parliament. It is not enough that a lot of taxes are hidden from the citizen. We are also creating problems for an entrepreneur who, for example, is going to report to tax cases, when one has to pay in advance a condemned debt pending a decision in court. It can have unreasonable consequences for a small business owner and cause difficulties with liquidity and, at worst, create even bigger problems. It would be reasonable to review the deferral rules that exist so that more are included in them when the consequences can have devastating effects. We have to realise that small businessmen are the ones who can create new jobs, while quite often putting both money and assets at risk to realise their dream of their own business and hopefully succeed. An aggravating part is when you sit on a board of limited liability companies and follow the steps you should take on the board according to law. However, if there is a lack of capital, there is a possibility that you can be held liable for tax debts. It can be considered that the measures to be taken as a company board by law are not enough for tax debts but for other creditors. For me, of course, it would be reasonable to have similar rules regardless of to whom the blame arises. It is also possible to add the administrative burden on small businesses that the alliance movements are about. I, too, believe that it should be investigated and addressed so that the administration of the individual small business operator is reduced as much as possible. It should be a high priority that more time can be devoted to the entrepreneur's core business and less to administration. Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to be registered at two addresses, which means that an alternate dwelling is not reflected in the register. Of all divorced parents, about one third have children who live alternately, that is, the child lives with each parent for the same amount of time. The proportion of children living alternately has increased sharply since the 1990s, but this is not shown in the population register. A survey conducted by Försäkringskassan shows that for only 60 per cent of children with divorced parents the population records are consistent with where the child mostly actually lives. This is remarkable, since most analyses of household composition and the situation of economic standards are based on the child's population records. For example, the number of children living with single mothers is overestimated. In the vast majority of cases where population records do not correspond to where children live most, children live alternately. In these cases, the financial situation of children is likely to be underestimated when the other parent's finances are not included in the statistics. There is a strong experience of injustice in the group whose children live alternately when the family financial support is paid to the parent with whom the child is registered. The fact that the children are only registered at an address also means that letters from authorities, health care, school, and more are normally only sent home to one. It's for that kid. He's registered. The other parent risks missing important information, and at worst one parent withholds the information from the other. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that the rules for the registration of people and for grants in which civil accounts play a role should be reviewed with a view to reducing the risk of conflict between parents, which I believe has increased over time. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of the Alliance's reservation No 11 and the Christian Democrats' reservation No 19.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-682	Mr President, I would like to It is a very important issue to stop the cheating and dumping that exists on our labour market in Sweden today. I assume that the KD basically feels the same. That's why I have two questions I'd like to ask Larry. I was talking about the fraud in the haulage industry and the report the IRS released last week. It shows that there is a major problem with how companies use F-tax to circumvent their responsibilities but also the lack of records of all companies operating in Sweden. My two questions are as follows: Are the Christian Democrats for a proposal that registers all companies active in Sweden so that the Swedish Tax Agency can carry out its review and controls? What do the Christian Democrats want to do to prevent fraud with F-tax?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-685	Mr President, I would like to You should know that the person who starts a business or acquires an F tax note does it because it has an idea that it believes in and wants to realize in one way or another. The task of the state is not to impose as much burden as possible on this person but to try to make it easier for it to realise its dreams and hopefully be able to employ people who give us tax revenue in society so that we in Parliament can distribute them as fairly as possible. I'll tell you the truth, I haven't seen the report. I'll have to take it with me and look at it. We know that everyone who has an F tax note does not according to the books that exist. It should of course be handled in a good and gentle way. But it cannot be done in such a way that those who do the right thing are put on more administration and more burdens that increase administration. I referred in my speech to the situation of small businesses. You can always discuss where the limit is for small businesses. But I'm a little allergic to making up new ideas, new rules and new documents to be filled in for the entrepreneur to be checked all the time. I believe that one must somehow ensure that the power of the individual entrepreneur is released and able to create new jobs in Sweden. Initially, without having read the report, my sense of spinal cord is that the Christian Democrats would not support such a proposal.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-690	Mr President, I would like to Now we are not talking about those entrepreneurs who want to start small businesses or who want to push their dreams forward, and so on. We are talking about all those who are forced into a relationship that they do not want where they are forced on an F tax note and that requirement in order to be able to work for, for example, a company. We are also talking about a situation in which you use an F-tax note, even though you know that the person is in a total dependency position and that you have an employment-like relationship. It affects Swedish workers and foreign workers. So we are talking about a completely different category. It should not be unfamiliar to the Christian Democrats that it exists. The report states that it is Swedish companies that use this method, among other things. The Left Party thinks that if you should have an F-tax note you should have more than one client, because otherwise you have an employment-like relationship with that particular client. I am surprised, therefore, that the Christian Democrats do not want to do anything about this, but talk it away as an administration, etc. In its report, the Swedish Tax Agency notes that it is extremely difficult to do this type of traffic investigation that must be done to curb the fraud in the haulage industry. The Swedish Tax Agency also notes that 80 per cent of the controlled traffic investigations have different types of cheating. One of the three most important requirements of the Large Industry Group and one of the most important requirements of the Swedish Tax Agency is to establish a public register of all active companies in Sweden. It should not be so difficult to support such a demand.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-694	Mr President, I would like to It is important to try to curb cheating in one way or another. I believe in itself that one should try to do it in the easiest possible way. Sometimes you can promote things to reduce cheating instead of setting up rules and regulations. Getting an F-tax note today is quite simple, just as Daniel Sestrajcic says, and it doesn't require much of the person applying for it. But I think it has to be that way, because otherwise we can have a situation that we do not want. There are other parts of Entrepreneurial Sweden where you can curb and reduce cheating, but there the Left Party has been involved, I mean, and has contributed to the increase in cheating. This is, for example, about the RUT sector. There are signals today that show that the black part may increase again, after the emergence of the RUT companies made the black market white. Here, then, the Left Party has made the opposite and all of a sudden made a white market black again, and I would therefore like to ask the Left Party the same question: how do you intend to act? Do you intend to join us and try to ensure that RUT companies get the opportunities and support needed to increase the white market again? This is, of course, also about people who need laws and regulations and secure employment, which you are helping to remove for them.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-697	Mr President, I would like to In the Committee on Taxation, we work a lot on issues relating to what taxes we should charge and at what level they should be. We are, not always surprising, not always in agreement on this, as has also been evident from the debate here today, not least with regard to excise duties. But it is an interesting and very important job, because it is through tax collection that we fund our common welfare. It is also important that it works well, so that we get the tax revenue we need in a way that gives legitimacy to the tax system. The report deals, among other things, with this. The design of the tax system and the operation of tax control also play a major role in creating and maintaining order and order in the labour market. That is why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has proposed, and this House has decided, for example, to establish and extend the use of human resources to facilitate tax control and curb undeclared work. Another example of an issue we have been working on is the presentation of monthly data for the same purpose. The question has been investigated during the period of the bourgeois government, and in 2013 an announcement was sent from the Riksdag to the government to return with proposals for legislation. It is an issue that is being worked on, and so there is no reason for Parliament today to take new initiatives. However, I would like to point out that it is an urgent issue to overcome and that we look forward to proposals from the government in this area, and I know that the government as well as the Tax Agency are working on this. We see that there is pressure on the labour market that undermines workers' rights. It is important that we work in different ways to defend and strengthen the security of the labour market. Of course, not all the tools are available in the tax procedure, but the tools available should of course be used. Unserious players in the labour market should not be able to gain benefits by committing irregularities and exploiting those with a weak position in the labour market. Mr President, I would like to The report also deals with issues of how to combat international tax evasion, following the great work done by the OECD with BEPS – base erosion and profit shifting. We have discussed and dealt with issues that lie in this several times in this House, such as agreements on automatic exchange of information, and we will come back to this House on more issues. At the moment, a great deal of work is under way in the EU as well as nationally to implement many of the proposals put forward by the OECD in its BEPS action plan, which was completed last September. We are discussing these issues very actively in the Tax Committee, something that is very important because it is about protecting Swedish tax bases while also ensuring that developing countries' opportunities for tax collection are strengthened. Mr President, I would like to The report also deals with censuses. Although all people living in Sweden are affected by the population register, it is rarely something we need to think about so much. There are, however, situations in which civil registration issues are made quite difficult. I am thinking, for example, of what is involved in the report on victims of violence, usually women, who are victims of violence in close relationships. It is extremely important for society to continue its efforts to protect these people, where changes are needed with regard to population records. This concerns, for example, the removal of personal data and the possibility of obtaining fictitious personal data. We in committee have agreed on this for several years, and a study was presented last year with proposals for changes. The investigation is currently being prepared in the Government Office, and I look forward to our prompt consideration of proposals to Parliament. I would also like to draw attention to the issue of the registration of trans-nationals. There are problems that have been raised in recent years and that have been the subject of legal disputes, for example in the case of men who have undergone a legal change of gender after becoming parents and where the registration of their parenthood does not follow the changes in the rest. This, in turn, constitutes a violation but also puts fathers and children in unwanted situations where they are outed and questioned. This is not the way we should have it, and I am therefore very pleased that the Government has given the agency the task of reporting on how changes in gender are handled in the agency and what measures have been taken and that it intends to take. This is very good. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-708	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sara, for your speech. The present government is in every way much, much better than the bourgeois government in many of these matters, and it is no secret that I think so. However, as I raised with the Christian Democrats, I would like to raise the issue of the registration of all companies operating in Sweden. This is, of course, an absolutely crucial point that the Swedish Tax Agency has highlighted on a number of occasions, as the Big Industry Group has highlighted in the Tax Committee and which is also shown, for example, through this report that I mentioned earlier on the haulage industry and the haulage industry in Sweden. It is simply much more difficult to make traffic investigations. It is more difficult to reach companies if there is no registration. It is also something that both the employers' side and the trade union side are in favour of. I wonder where the Social Democrats stand on this issue, because I have not seen such a clear position. All I see is Magdalena Andersson's answer to my written question on 16 December, which basically says that no such work is going on in the Government Office, while the report refers to something else. What do the Social Democrats think on this issue? The second question I would like to take this opportunity to ask is whether the Social Democrats do not nevertheless see the need for a national action plan against tax evasion, social dumping, etcetera. Many good efforts are being made, but I see that things are going a little too slowly, that there are not strong enough measures being taken and that this is not done in the systematic way that it would have to do to bring about real differences. Half the term of office is almost over. Now the words must be translated into action. A national action plan could help achieve this.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-714	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Left Party draws attention to the fact that these are issues that are important for the government, i.e. to create and maintain order and order in the labour market. Several of the issues highlighted by Daniel Sestrajcic in his speech are also included in the ten-point labour market management programme on which we went to elections and on which we are actively working at the Government Office. We are also doing a great deal of work at European level that has produced results and also together with colleagues in Austria and Germany, for example. With regard to the question of the registration of foreign companies specifically, unfortunately, I cannot answer exactly where it is at the Government Office in this way. But it is an issue that is part of the big package and the ten-point programme on which we have decided, gone to elections and also work step by step. When it comes to an action plan to tackle fraud and irregularities, we are actively working on this in different parts. I have some doubts as to whether it would really speed up the work if we were now to take a decision on drawing up an action plan. I rather believe that there is a risk that it could delay the important work that we are doing in various areas in order to tackle the problems concretely.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-718	Mr President, I would like to I thank Sara for her answer. I am also pleased that the government is acting, even if it is too slow, too weak and insufficient. I am proud that the Left Party has pushed ahead on these issues and has pushed the Social Democracy and the government ahead of itself. I would now like to shift the focus and move on to the issue of tax evasion, country-by-country reporting and automatic exchange of information, which you, Sara Karlsson, talked about well and which I know our two parties are active and engaged in. We see the major problem of tax evasion that affects both our countries and the poor countries of the third world. On a number of occasions, in the Tax Committee and in other contexts, I have raised the issue of transparency, the need for this exchange and for country-by-country reporting not only to be made available to the respective tax authorities, but also for civil society – researchers, activists, journalists and others – to actually take part in this. It has turned out that it is often through civil society that cheating can be exposed and brought to light. The Luxleaks affair is one example. Especially in relation to the global South and poor countries, it is crucial, often in the case of corrupt regimes, that there is a clear and transparent approach to this. At the moment, the Swedish Government is not in favour of this transparency. Magdalena Andersson says, on the contrary, that she does not want it, despite the fact that the Social Democracy, the Environmental Party and all the other parties except the Liberals in Diakonia's poll before the elections said that they were in favour of public country-by-country reporting. Why does the government not act in public country-by-country reporting?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-724	Mr President, I would like to The question of country-by-country reporting and whether they should be public or only to the tax authorities in the different countries was widely discussed in the OECD work. The proposal that was then landed in and that we decided on means that country-by-country reporting should not be fully public to the various parties that the Left Party here lines up. As far as work is concerned right now, it is an issue that is not on the table. Mr Daniel himself mentioned that it was raised during meetings of the Committee on Taxation. There we have also had to report that a review is being carried out and look at what the consequences would be. This will be the case later. We will follow it in the future. I think it is good and fun that there is a lot of commitment on these issues about how to combat international tax evasion. We're gonna need that. We will work a lot on these issues in the future, so we will get back to this.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-727	Mr President, I would like to Working for reduced tax errors, tax evasion and tax evasion is politically an issue in which we do not differ in Swedish politics. We also agree on the importance of the tax system having a strong legitimacy to ensure that people pay taxes, because the tax is needed for the welfare we also agree on fairly needs to be financed. Many have highlighted RUT and ROT deductions as key success factors for the positive development of how the legitimacy of the tax system has been strengthened in recent years. Here, black jobs have turned white. At the same time, people far from the labour market have been able to get jobs, and many women have started businesses. These are reforms which, since the turn of the year, the current Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has dramatically worsened the conditions for. We are already seeing the negative consequences after two months. According to Entrepreneurs, the number of operators, buyers and amounts in the ROT industry decreased by between 17 and 38 per cent between February 2015 and February 2016. In the RUT sector, the number of operators decreased by 14 per cent over the same period. Companies in these industries have already begun to receive requests to work black. My question is therefore: why do the Social Democrats say that combating tax evasion is a priority when, at the same time, there are reductions in RUT and ROT deductions, which make a clear contribution to increased undeclared work?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-731	Mr President, I would like to With regard to measures to combat undeclared work and various types of cheating, work on them can be done in several different ways. Some things have been discussed during this debate. There are several examples in this report of how to make the work more powerful and efficient. This is something that this government is actively working on and that we are also dealing with in committee and in this House. As regards the impact of the ROT and RUT deductions, this issue would need to be better assessed. After all, we have discussed in the Tax Committee's evaluation group an interest in seeing what effects the ROT and RUT deductions have had on, among other things, undeclared work. There is a major study in our neighbouring country Finland on the RUT deduction and its impact on employment and also on the issue of white versus black jobs. I have a little reaction to the expression that it is such a dramatic change that has been made. I would like to remind you that what we have done is that we have reduced the subsidy rate in the ROT deduction from 50 % to 30 %. We use the resources in the same sector. We think it is more appropriate to redirect resources to stimulate new construction rather than renovation of existing stocks. It's still a generous subsidy that's in the ROT deduction. As regards the RUT deduction, it is a reduction in the ceiling that has been implemented and the RUT deduction is also to be extended as a result of the migration agreement. I think that if you want to protect stability and not create a lot of concern, we have a joint responsibility between the parties not to paint it as something more dramatic than it is and thereby put terror in people.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-737	Mr President, I would like to We have tried to get answers from the Minister of Finance in various interpellation debates on this issue. The changes may seem small, but small changes can have major effects. We have already seen this in our second neighbour Denmark. It is unclear now, and when it comes to the changes you mentioned, Sara Karlsson, you forgot that an age limit has been introduced. So it has been unclear to the buyer what really applies. That is what has done, for example in Denmark, that the market has been dramatically reduced. It is not the buying behaviour itself that is interesting here, but the interesting thing is the effects on jobs that the RUT and ROT deductions have created and have been successful. I know that there is work going on and that the evaluation group has a reflection on looking at these issues. That would be amazing. We very much welcome that. But when you already know certain things and see the consequences of them in the short term, it is a bit sad that you wait for the effects until it has gone down substantially. In Denmark, deteriorations were made at different times. After the first deterioration, the market recovered, but when the latter came further deteriorations it became too difficult for consumers to understand what was going on. That's when the whole thing was missed. Thus, even those that are thought to be minor deteriorations have dramatic consequences overall. It affects those who have got jobs, and it is about those who have been the furthest away from the labour market, i.e. exactly those jobs that we need in Sweden. They have already begun to be affected by the deterioration of the Social Democrats together with the Green Party. I would have liked to have put this question to Sara Karlsson's environmental partner today, but, unfortunately, since he is not present, only Sara Karlsson can represent the government parties today. But I want to thank Sara Karlsson.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-743	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, our environmental partner is ill. But there will be more opportunities for Anette Åkesson to ask Rasmus Ling questions. It would be good if there were more evidence and evaluations of the effects of the RUT and ROT deductions. There are often allegations on rather vague grounds as to what the impact has been on employment and the transition from white to black jobs. That is a question that we are following. We are putting in place measures to curb undeclared work and reduce cheating in various ways. There are threads here for a much greater debate on labour market policy, and this is not the right forum here. However, as regards the change in ROT and RUT deductions, I would like to remind you of what we are doing with resources. This is, of course, a cost that has increased dramatically every year, and the ROT accounts for the vast majority. It is resources that we are redeploying from subsidising renovations to stimulating new construction. There is a huge housing shortage in Sweden, and there is a great need to build new ones that people can afford to live in. It is therefore a reasonable distribution of society's resources, which are limited, to use part of the resources to stimulate new housing.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-747	Mr President, I would like to I think we can agree that much of what we are talking about today is about important signal policy on tax procedures and their impact on various activities in our society. As Anette Åkesson mentioned, in many areas we are quite in agreement within all parties. But now that we are so aware that this is an important signal policy, it surprises me that we are not answering our questions about tax agreements. When will something happen to tax agreements in this Parliament? I would like Sara Karlsson, for us here in Parliament and for all the voters who listen, to tell us when you intend to get off the ground to renegotiate old tax treaties and when they come to Parliament. We know today that there will be a tax agreement with Saudi Arabia, which will be discussed in March. But when will the rest come? There are a large number of countries with which we should have much better agreements. I guess you're working on this in the Government Office. In fact, the Social Democrats have said that they do, but we do not see much results. I would like to have an account here now: What is going to happen? How many tax agreements do we get at Parliament's table during this Parliamentary Session?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-751	Mr President, I would like to This question has been raised in the past, and I know that Olle Felten has also asked the Minister for Finance questions about this. It is also described in the report, among other things, that resources in the Ministry of Finance in recent years have also been spent working on the exchange of information agreements that have been concluded bilaterally with many countries but also on the work that is prompted by the OECD's work to combat international tax evasion. Now there are again more opportunities to put gunpowder on the tax treaties, which Olle Felten here refers to. As Olle Felten mentioned in her reply, there is an information exchange agreement that has been negotiated and which we will be discussing here in Parliament. So there are tax treaties in the pipeline. To give an exact answer to how many tax agreements we will deal with during this Parliamentary Session is a bit difficult because Sweden alone cannot afford them. These are bilateral agreements where there is also another party. What we can answer is that resources are being returned to working on tax agreements, which have previously been tied up in the work on the exchange of information agreements.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-754	Mr President, I would like to If you wanted to joke, you could say that the historyless icy wind blows through this Chamber Hall. A debate was held here in 2011 on the Swedish National Audit Office's first report from 2010. Sara Karlsson's party partner Christina Oskarsson then had a debate with Moderate Ulf Berg about the bad activity regarding tax agreements in the then alliance government. I listened to that debate the other day and was actually a little surprised. Christina Oskarsson and I could have stood parallel here. We said almost the same things, although I did not know that she was conducting that debate. This is where the question has been turned. In 2011, the Social Democrats were angry with the Alliance Government for not doing tax treaty work. In fact, the Social Democrats dismantled the work on tax agreements during Göran Persson's reign at the end of the 1990s. Now the Social Democrats are in government and deal with tax agreements enormously slowly. Then we come and tell them that they need to get their act together. We have been doing this since the beginning of this Parliamentary Session. We still don't get any answers about when something's going to happen. The decision is about: Yes, we will start working on this soon. But that is not enough. The Social Democrats must come back with an active plan for building tax agreements.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-757	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I have not seen the debate that Olle Felten is presenting here, between my party colleague and a moderate Member during the last parliamentary term. It is therefore difficult to comment on this debate. What I can do is answer Olle Felten's question. The answer to the question is that the work will be intensified when we no longer need to devote as much resources to the exchange of information agreements. But also Olle Felten must realise that it is difficult to account for exactly how many tax agreements are to be signed during a certain period of time because Sweden is not the only party to these agreements. Olle Felten's speech, as well as earlier in the Swedish Democrats' speech, showed a disregard for the work on the exchange of information agreements, as if it were an unimportant piece of work. We think it is important to give priority to this work and to put a great deal of effort into it. We also think it is important to give priority to the work of signing tax treaties. It is something that we are working on and will continue to work with intensely.
i-BsrHgqCc5iWu3MWjegf3i5	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Environment and Agriculture is an effective and result-oriented committee. That is why we have agreed to have a joint debate on the committee's report No 6, Nature conservation and protection of the area, and on the committee's report No 11, Biodiversity. The fact that we are having a general debate on these two reports does not only save the President and the House time, but is also perfectly natural. The issues covered by these reports are, in fact, closely linked. Let me take an example! Issues relating to beach protection, nature reserves and national parks are dealt with in the report on nature conservation and site protection, but at the same time are tools in the work on biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to I said that the Committee on Environment and Agriculture was an effective and result-oriented committee. These are words that unfortunately do not fit to describe the current government. It is true that the government has increased funding for, among other things, area protection, but in the current government, it has been more busy for about a year and a half trying to reach agreement internally than delivering concrete results. The government simply lacks the capacity to act, and there are, unfortunately, many clear examples of this. I will not tire you hearers of mentioning too many. But let me mention a few, Mr President. Last year, a united committee announced that the government needs to strengthen its work on biodiversity. The fact that we alliance parties and the other two opposition parties are pushing in order to get the government to do more and that we are criticising the government for not doing enough is in the nature of the matter. It is quite obvious that it is the task of the opposition to examine the government's policy and be a blowtorch. However, it is quite telling that it is not just us opposition parties who support the announcement. It was a completely united parliament that urged the government to tighten up its work on biodiversity. Even the Social Democrats or the environmentalists in this House did not think that the government was doing enough. It's a clear understatement to the government. An excellent basis for further work on biodiversity is the biodiversity and ecosystem service strategy developed by the Alliance Government during the last term of office and adopted in spring 2014. The government now needs to build on that strategy, but unfortunately, as I said, the government is showing a large dose of lack of action. That is why, Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1 to the MJU11 report, which states that the Government must implement the measures set out in the strategy as a matter of urgency. In response to the request, the government parties propose, among other things, that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, in cooperation with the relevant authorities, carry out communication efforts on ecosystem services and that work on the national forest programme is ongoing. This is an important work, but it is not something that the current government has initiated, but the mission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was already given by the Alliance Government, which also initiated work on the national forestry programme. The national forestry programme has the potential to contribute to the continued good development of environmental concerns in forestry. Unfortunately, worrying signals are coming that the difficulties of the government parties to agree internally on the direction of the programme have a negative impact on the work on the programme. The background to the Alliance's work on the national forest programme is that the Environmental Objectives Committee, of which I am a member, in its report Focusing on environmental objectives – sustainable use of land and water in 2014 proposed setting up such a programme – this in order to create a dialogue process on how forests can further contribute to the development of a more sustainable society and to a growing bio-based economy. The process would include both economic, social and environmental values, but the government has now harmed the work by launching a parallel process. The Government has initiated a review of the Forest Protection Act. This seems unfortunate to me and the Moderates. In 2014, the Alliance clarified the Forest Management Act on a number of points, including proposals from the Environmental Objectives Committee. There is no need for a major review. Today's forestry law creates good conditions for sustainable forestry, and thanks to today's model of freedom under responsibility we see how Sweden's forest owners together take a much greater responsibility than the law requires. Most forest owners show good environmental considerations in their use and also make very large voluntary provisions for valuable natural areas – this in order to contribute to nature conservation work and strengthen the protection of biodiversity. Volunteering allows us to go further in nature conservation work. If nature considerations in forestry are to continue to improve and if we are to get forest owners to make additional voluntary provisions, the government needs to bring with it Sweden's 330 000 forest owners. The national forestry programme can contribute to precisely this. However, I fear that the review of forestry legislation will be counterproductive. Mr President, I would like to The report on biodiversity also deals with predatory policy in general and certain wolf issues in particular. The Left Party wants the target of predatory policy to change. No such claims have come from the government parties, either this year or in previous years. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are in government on several points for a policy that runs counter to the policy that Parliament has set out with the adoption of the alliance government's bill A sustainable predatory policy. A flagrant example of how the government defies the parliamentary majority is that the government decided in February to amend the hunting regulation so that appeals against the county administrative boards' decisions on licensing or protection hunting should go directly to the general administrative court. Thus, the government goes back to the old system which meant that protection and licence hunting in practice could often not be carried out without the cases being parked in long legal proceedings. It was a system that paralysed the administration and created enormous mistrust among those concerned. We cannot have such a system. I would therefore like to remind the government that the predatory policy decided by Parliament should be firm. This has been announced on two occasions by the Riksdag. It is serious that the government seems to act deliberately in violation of Parliament's will. The representatives of the government parties now need to respond, in this debate, to how the government intends decisions on protection and licence hunting to be taken urgently. Mr President, I would like to We need the proper management of our predators. It is important for nature conservation and biodiversity. Effective management means that we achieve the goal of a favourable conservation status for our predators, while keeping domestic animals at home is not seriously hampered and socio-economic considerations are taken into account. On behalf of the Alliance, we have a special opinion on these issues to which I would like to refer. We Moderates also want to strengthen the efforts of county boards to prevent predator attacks, as we highlight in reservation No 3 in report 11. Mr President, I would like to Report 6, Nature conservation and protection, concerns a wide range of important issues such as national parks, nature reserves and beach protection. From last year there are several announcements in this area. The Swedish Parliament urged the Government to review, among other things, the beach protection rules so that they become more appropriate in order to create better conditions for construction, housing and economic activity in beach locations. In this context, I would also like to mention the moderate reservation to review the beach protection rules in order to create better conditions for mussel farming. Mussels are the sea's own small sewage treatment plants and small heroes in the work against eutrophication and healthier seas. Facilitating mussel farming is therefore important. As far as all forms of site protection are concerned, we Moderates believe that it is important that areas set aside are managed in such a way that the natural values justifying their protection are not lost. It is also important to ensure that the possibility of setting up municipal nature reserves is used correctly and not to stop, for example, residential building. We have a serious and growing housing shortage in Sweden. Therefore, we Moderates believe that there is a need to review the possibilities for municipalities to set up nature reserves. I would therefore like to support Amendment No 1 in report MJU6. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the moderate reservations, but for the time to come, I am therefore only calling for reservation No 1 in report MJU6 and for reservation No 1 in report MJU11.
i-Pf6HapTNAsYDXJYVYcvAjU	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats have a number of reservations, but in the MJU6 report we are only in favour of reservation 3 and in the MJU11 report we are only in favour of reservation 3 and reservation 4. Today there is a marine national park in Sweden – Kosterhavet. Similar parks and reserves are important for the long-term sustainability of the Western Sea and the Baltic Sea and for the preservation of biodiversity. The coast and archipelago must have a high degree of biodiversity, experience values and natural and cultural values. Nutrition, recreation and other uses of the sea, coast and archipelago shall be conducted in such a way as to promote sustainable development. Particularly valuable areas should be protected against interference and other disturbances. More marine reserves can also contribute to a faster recovery of commercially important fish stocks and an increase in the amount of fish in nearby fishing waters. The rules for dealing with mass camping from asphaltists, berry pickers with more on meadows, plots, in the forest and in connection with forest roads need to be clearer, tougher and more efficient. The right of public access is a unique right, but if it is to work, its obligations must also be upheld. Camping on other people's land without littering should be possible some night, but not in any way and anywhere. A landowner who discovers that a multitude of people, perhaps as many as the tens or far more, camp on his land cannot take the help of the police even if the land has been occupied by tents for far longer than the right of public access to. Even if it is also littered, you cannot turn to the police and ask for eviction, as you think it would be possible. The landowner must obtain a social security number and turn to the enforcement officer, which costs SEK 600 per person. Then the police have the opportunity to evict the occupiers. But it could take a long time. Should a landowner also have to be responsible for and investigate who the occupiers are? I think that's a strange order. A landowner whose land is occupied should be able to go to the police and get an eviction regardless of whether the social security number is available or not and whether the bailiff has acted or not. The obligations of the right of public access must be enforced by the State if it is not to lose its meaning as originally intended. There may be valid reasons for more than 100 metres of protection to safeguard important values. However, if the authorities choose to extend beach protection, they should also be obliged to clearly justify why, they feel. They shall also take into account individual interests. The actions of county administrative boards are sometimes a serious infringement of the property rights of property owners, farmers and other entrepreneurs. 300 meters means many times that large parts of properties and businesses end up within the beach shelter. It will be difficult to rebuild, rebuild and use the land in the way it is needed to develop the activities. It also imposes administrative burdens. The extension of shore protection without regard to the needs of the landowner and the operator may therefore have unreasonable consequences for the individual, which is not desirable. In order for companies to continue to grow locally and create jobs, the right conditions are needed. Four out of five jobs are created in small businesses. In many parts of the country, small business is even more important. In places where tourism and tourism industries are growing in importance, accessibility to attractive areas plays a major role. In the worst case, the actions of the county administrative boards can stop the development of the activities and thus prevent the creation of new jobs. It will also often be difficult for municipalities to plan for new housing if there is increased beach protection – as in rural areas, where municipalities may be dependent on creating new residential environments that are attractive to attract new residents. Many times there can be sticks in the wheel. 300 meters compared to 100 meters means a large percentage of available land in a municipality. Mr President, I would like to A self-sufficient and economically secure countryside is something that can be difficult to reconcile with several vargrevir in one municipality. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, 300 wolves are needed in Sweden, which is close to the previous reference value of 270 wolves, in order to maintain the so-called favourable conservation status of the wolf. The position of the Swedish Democrats is that the wolf's reference value for a favourable conservation status should be in accordance with the lower limit for the least viable population in the bill A sustainable predator policy before license hunting can come up. There is an interval of 170 to 270 individuals, and I am referring to the lower limit. For example, the Swedish Hunter Association believes that 150 wolves are sufficient to maintain a favourable conservation status. The Scandinavian research project Skandulv has carried out a vulnerability analysis for the Swedish and Norwegian wolf tribes. They believe in their 2012 report that at least 100 wolves are required for the tribe to survive in our country and our brother country Norway. This is thus the minimum number of individuals in a population required for the survival of the tribe and, in addition, to cope with disturbances that significantly alter living conditions, such as increased poaching or diseases. To this the EU has said that the nations should have a slightly higher level of ambition. According to Skandulv, a wolf strain of 100 individuals may be sufficient to pass through temporary declines. Cormorants and seals have also become a major problem for fishermen and industries along the coast. The cormorants have spread rapidly throughout the country. Reports show that the damage to fishing is considerable, and now it also includes inland fishing. The expansion is extensive. From the core area of the southeastern Baltic Sea, the cormorants have spread to inland lakes, west to the west coast and up to the Bothnian Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia. The cormorant bites, chops and eats many times large parts of fish stocks, causing economic loss to fishermen. The bit damage to whitefish, for example, can account for more than 10% of the catch for this fishery. For coastal fishing, however, seals are an even greater problem. The fishing industry is seriously affected by damage caused by seals. The seals cause damage to both gear and fishing catches, and it is periodically impossible to carry out profitable fishing in certain coastal areas. Since the 1980s, damage to both the east coast and the west coast has been of such magnitude as to cause significant economic losses to the fishing industry. Seals are also affected by their getting stuck in the tools. However, as I said, inland fishing can be much more vulnerable than coastal fishing in the case of cormorants. Skarven has, among other things, damaged a lot of eel and zander in the large lakes. Over 40 percent of the eel is reported to have some damage. Fish damage in fixed gears is extensive. Many injuries are directly linked to the joints. In line with its distribution, cormorants can affect fish stocks. Along the coast, the cormorants also catch a lot of young cod. As is well known, the cormorants are covered by the EU Birds Directive, and as long as it is not on the list of huntable species, general hunting time cannot be introduced. We Swedish democrats think, as you know, that Swedish hunting rules should apply in Sweden. The fact that the EU dictates game management in Sweden is something we are strongly opposed to. Already when Sweden joined the EU in 1995, we had a game care and a management that the rest of the world could watch with envy. We see no added value in the fact that the European institutions set the agenda and set the conditions. The national parliament will be the highest decision-making body in our areas and forests, and the government will clearly work to ensure that Sweden regains the decision-making power for the issues that fit within species and habitats directives and bird directives. As I said: Swedish hunting rules should apply in Sweden.
i-7hu3XDNqcE6oy9xF12BTEn	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by requesting the approval of MJU1 and MJU6 reservation 2. A great variety of plants, animals and microorganisms is crucial for us humans. The combination of different forms of life and their interaction gives rise to goods and services that are essential for the functioning of our society, our economy and our everyday lives. A certain proportion of natural areas must therefore be secured in order for ecosystems to deliver what society needs. Human beings are completely dependent on these services that can relate to air and water purification and various types of climate stabilisation. Swedish companies are also directly and indirectly dependent on ecosystem services, such as access to timber, pollination of crops or the ability of the seas to produce fish. In this way, ecosystem services are also necessary to ensure long-term entrepreneurship and jobs throughout the country, not least in forestry and agriculture. That is why these two reports are so important, and it is therefore also important that the measures put forward in the Bill on biodiversity and ecosystem services are actually implemented by the government. As far as forests are concerned, the tools for success in this work are a combination of developing environmental considerations in forestry and using different forms of nature conservation. Protection and environmental considerations in forestry ensure the various functions of forests, such as wood raw materials, bioenergy, climate regulation or biotopes for endangered species. Forest owners are already making a major effort to preserve forest biodiversity. SLU and Skogstyrelsen showed in a study last year that the forester's overall environmental concerns are twice as great as previously thought. Approximately 8 % of the area is given as direct consideration in the case of fellings. In addition, voluntary provisions, which make up about 5% of the productive forest land, are added. The study also shows that the principle of freedom under responsibility in many areas has created a positive development for forest environments that are valuable for biodiversity. In order to promote the legitimacy of the work to strengthen biodiversity and preserve forest conservation, it is important that landowners feel involved and respected in the process. Several forest owners have testified to a powerlessness, and many are also the forest owners who end up in a vacuum when the agreement is concluded but the compensation is delayed. It is therefore important to consider how the system can be developed so that resources go as far as possible and so that forest owners do not have to wait for compensation. We also need to look at how the dialogue processes for the establishment of nature reserves can be developed so that everyone feels involved and listened to. Here, the national forest programme plays an important role in strengthening dialogue on biodiversity and forest conservation. It is therefore important that the work should be prioritised by the government rather than spending time on the investigation that has now been launched for a review of the forestry legislation. Mr President, I would like to The need for legitimacy and participation also affects beach protection. There are over 400 000 kilometres of beach in Sweden. That is more than ten laps around the world. These beaches are a fantastic resource and an environment to both protect and develop. With the right rules, homes, businesses, visitors, outdoor activities, animals and nature can interact. Protecting important beach environments, public access and people's access to nature is a matter of course for the Center Party. But there must also be a balance between conservation and development. Many municipalities today testify that the possibility of developing their attractiveness is limited because of rigid beach protection and that there is insufficient room for adaptation to local conditions. Even individuals get caught when, for example, they are not allowed to build a house for the children on the plot they own for generations. In the alliance government, the Center Party carried out several reforms for more effective beach protection. We introduced so-called LIS areas, which provide increased opportunities to build and operate in rural areas. An opportunity was created for the County Administrative Board to completely abolish the beach protection in small watercourses. But more is needed. Long-term sustainable beach protection must be seen as both fair and reasonable. This is not the case today, and a more flexible regulatory framework with more local influence is therefore needed. As part of the work, the Strandskyddsdelegation was established with representatives from authorities, municipalities and county boards. In its final report, the delegation notes that a number of problem areas relating to beach protection cannot be addressed under current beach protection legislation. We share this conclusion and see the need for a series of urgent reforms. Decentralised and locally grown beach protection is needed, where the municipality is given more power to decide which beach areas are to be preserved and which are to be built. The regulatory burden needs to be reduced and the really important areas a need to be protected. Therefore, the basic rule should be that a beach protection should not apply to small watercourses and lakes. A report with proposals for new legislation was produced by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on behalf of the Alliance Government. That report is apparently on the government table collecting dust. The LIS framework also needs to be reviewed. Ideas, opportunities and initiatives for activities or construction are not adapted to bureaucratic processes. The creation of LIS areas needs to be made easier and faster. The Center Party wants to see a larger review of the entire regulation of the beach protection, where the possibility to reverse the perspective is also investigated. There is a great need for both housing and better conditions for development, not least in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, I would like to devote a few minutes to a third issue in which many citizens feel a great powerlessness and frustration, namely the management of our predators. The Swedish Parliament has decided that there should be a hunting license on wolf in Sweden. Licensing shall be part of the regionalised predator management which shall ensure the survival of species and take into account economic and social aspects, especially for people living and operating in predatory areas. Unfortunately, we have seen how predatory management is overly characterised by ambiguities, uncertainties and lengthy legal processes. Unfortunately, winter license hunting is no exception. The Supreme Administrative Court declared the decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency inadmissible to administrative law. The Administrative Court has announced the hunting of wolves in Värmland and Örebro County. If you look at the Court's arguments, you can see that hunting for a wolf is a legitimate tool to limit the socio-economic consequences and improve conditions for domestic animal husbandry. On the other hand, the determining authority must better justify and weigh its decisions. What we have seen, however, is that with today's processing times in the Swedish administrative courts you will not be able to make a final decision before the intended hunting period has expired. So today there is no system for making decisions that work in reality or as the Riksdag has intended. Recently, the government amended the hunting regulation so that all decisions on hunting for the large predators can be appealed to the General Administrative Court. I could stand here and demand answers from the Green Party and the Social Democrats on how to get a functioning licence hunt. It is clear that I am looking forward to the government parties responding to how they intend to ensure, in practical terms, that the appeal process is dealt with promptly and how they will ensure expertise in the appeal process because it is clear that the issues are not only of a legal nature since three chambers have been sentenced to different outcomes during the winter wolf hunt. This question requires more than that. Around our country there are a large number of people who feel further away from decision-makers than ever. They lose faith in politicians, authorities and our legal system. What does it do to a person when one no longer believes in the institutions that are set to represent us citizens? What does it do to our society when more and more people feel excluded and did not listen to it? Here, all parties have a great responsibility in trying to find constructive solutions. The Swedish Parliament announced to the government last year that the Species and Habitats Directive must be reviewed and updated. It's a step. Strengthening the wildlife management delegations, as the Riksdag also urged the Government to do last year, is another way to improve game management. I hope that we can find more ways forward to get a functioning licence hunt so that people can regain confidence in our predator management. Mr President, I would like to Protecting and nurturing our nature and biodiversity are crucial for our future. But without legitimacy in the decisions and acceptance of those concerned, there will be no long-term sustainable protection. Therefore, these parts must go hand in hand.
i-BXuNibit1C7DrShhdCykA7	Mr President, I would like to I support Amendment No 2 in the MJU report11. We humans are completely dependent on nature and biodiversity. Biodiversity is not only something that we achieve by entrenching nature and protecting the species and biotopes that may be inside. More importantly, nature as a whole must be better protected. All parts of our nature must live – our forests, our mountains and our lakes, rivers and seas. Here, species richness and biodiversity are crucial. It's not really news. For example, we have set 16 so-called environmental quality objectives to be able to monitor more closely how nature is doing and to take measures so that we get on the right course. Today, unfortunately, we are not on the right track. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that, with current decisions and instruments, we will only reach at best 2 of the 16 environmental targets by 2020. The so-called generational goal, which is about solving the far-reaching challenges of a generation, is also far from within reach. I am pleased that we in the Left Party and the Government have achieved a budget that involves the biggest investments in conservation in decades. This is a very important step forward. But more needs to be done, and in fact we know quite well what needs to be done. This report, MJU11, refers to both proposals from the Environmental Objectives Committee and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report from last year, which was called Styr with a view to environmental objectives. As for the latter, the report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, there are many concrete proposals for measures and instruments that the Government and the Riksdag could decide on to ensure that we get on the right course and achieve our 16 environmental objectives. With regard to the proposals in the report of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, it is interesting that many of them deal with proposals in other policy areas than environmental policy as such. For this, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the support of the Government's letter on the generational case, which came a year and a half ago. It states that environmental issues should not be considered as separate areas, but as part of all policy areas. This means that environmental work must be integrated into all policy areas. It should enter housing policy, defence policy and culture, and not least environmental policy must enter into fiscal policy – into the economy. Therefore, the report proposes things like new taxes on what pollutes, phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies, requirements for investors – for example our AP funds – to account for the impact of investments in the form of greenhouse gas emissions, for the school to work more on sustainability issues and much more. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report also deals with more well-known proposals such as a review of the Forest Protection Act, a generally more considerate forestry, a better application of the second chapter of the Environmental Code, that we should strengthen the environmental elements of the rural programme and so on. Yes, as we can hear, we have a huge challenge – we do not meet our environmental objectives – but also an expert authority that has made many concrete proposals on a way forward. This report states that the government is still preparing both the report of the Environmental Protection Agency I have spoken about and the proposal of the Environmental Objectives Committee. We write, however, 2016. Soon it will be 2020. If we are to achieve our 16 environmental objectives, decisions need to be taken here and now – we cannot wait any longer. Speaking of issues prepared in the Government Office, the agreement in Nagoya, Japan 2010, i.e. the major UN meeting on biodiversity, is also addressed in the MJU report11. It can be said that at this UN meeting in Japan, the world's countries agreed on a planet and biodiversity rescue plan. According to the Nagoya Plan, all agriculture, water and forestry must be carried out in a sustainable manner. 17 per cent of our land area and 10 per cent of our coastal and marine surface area are to be protected by the Nagoya agreement by 2020. Here we have in Sweden a long way to go. I therefore welcome the fact that the committee is now stating that the government is to make a concrete proposal to include the so-called Nagoya Protocol in Swedish law. It is about getting rules in place that clarify how genetic resources are to be collected and how the benefits and utilisation of these are to be distributed. This is an important issue, not least for developing countries, which have a large share of these resources at their disposal. Dear Hearers! However, I would like to remind you that in November 2014, Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson already replied to me that the introduction of the Nagoya Protocol into Swedish law would be in place in 2015, i.e. last year. She promised me that. So now I expect this really to come into place in March, as promised – that is, this month. No more delays, please! Mr President, I would like to Is it not strange and, in my opinion, somewhat disappointing that it is now only the Left Party that stands up for a predatory policy with respect for viable populations, applicable law and that the people living in sparsely populated areas should be able to live in interaction with the wild animals we have? All of you other parties actually want to claim that we can have a large-scale hunt for wolves – when we know that the wolf is a threatened species in Sweden. The wolf is a species that is strictly protected in the Berne Convention and in the EU Species and Habitats Directive. The wolf is listed among Artdatabanken's red-listed species, i.e. species that are threatened. All of you other parties also know that the hunting of wolves is contrary to our international commitments in the UN and the EU on biodiversity. We want tigers, rhinoceros and snow leopards to be protected in other countries, so why shouldn't we in Sweden – which actually has great opportunities – take our responsibility to protect a very vulnerable species? We also know that the wolf cannot spread and reproduce naturally in such a way as is needed. If that had been the case, I would like to emphasise, the matter could have come in a different light. These are things we in the Left Party raise in our reservations 2 and 5, where we come up with concrete proposals forward. I really find it sad that predatory issues are something that polarizes Sweden. On the contrary, we should be proud that we are a country of wilderness where we should at least be able to have predator populations that should be able to live. Of course, we will also do more to prevent and prevent predator attacks on domestic animals. The current budget also allocates more money, and that is a good thing. However, I believe that we need broader solutions than that in order to tackle predatory policy in Sweden. Proposals in this particular direction already came in 2013 from the then Wolf Committee, which had broad support from both conservationists and hunters. I would like to emphasise that the Wolf Committee was not only concerned with wolf issues but also with predatory policy in the broad sense. For example, it was proposed to increase compensation for attacks and predatory injuries, and proposed more preventive measures overall. It proposed limiting illegal hunting, genetic reinforcement of the wolf strain and simplified protection hunts. Unfortunately, the then bourgeois government chose not to manage the broad approach, and unfortunately I cannot say that the current S-MP government has managed the arrangement very well either. Mr President, my dear fellow debaters. It is time for a shift in predatory policy.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-835	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party writes in one of its reservations about predatory policy objectives that the illegal hunt makes it difficult for both the administration and the follow-up of predatory policy objectives and is a criminal activity. This is a perfectly correct description and something we fully agree on. The strange thing is that the Left Party then writes:"The government should therefore return with a concrete objective to reduce the illegal hunt for large predators. Furthermore, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should be tasked with carrying out periodic estimates of the extent of illegal hunting. This, Mr President, is a real blow to the air. That Left is good at placard politics is a well-known fact, but this actually takes the price, Jens Holm. The committee clearly states in the report that these issues are dealt with in the Environmental Protection Agency's management plans for predators. The management plans for wolf, bear, lynx and wolverine contain several sub-objectives. One of these milestones is not exactly an illegal hunt. Is that not a clear enough objective? The plans also set out a number of measures to achieve the intermediate objective. The measures include the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will give relevant researchers the task of estimating or calculating the illegal hunt for all predators. In view of this, I have a real question about the Left Party's reservations. The Left Party is asking for what already exists. Then I have to ask Jens Holm : Has Jens Holm not read or not understood the Environmental Protection Agency's management plans?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-840	Mr President, I would like to I think it's great that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has a management plan. I also think it is good to work against the illegal hunt. When I last tried to find out exact statistics on the illegal hunt, there was no such thing. And as I understand it, there is also no objective in the management plan for reducing illegal hunting, that is to say, such an objective as we mention in our reservation that we want. I can agree with one thing, and that is why I did not dwell so long on the illegal hunt. It is good that it is included in the management plan, but I think that this work could be a little more systematic and precise. I should like to ask Johan Hultberg about something he raised in his speech. The Moderates and the other bourgeois parties are upset that the government has now made it possible to appeal against decisions on licence hunting, and you do not want that to be possible. But at the end of December last year, the Supreme Administrative Court came with its very clear verdict where they said that one must be able to appeal decisions on hunting for predators. Then it would be very interesting to hear from the Moderates how to resolve this issue, when our Supreme Court says that one should have the right to appeal decisions on hunting.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-844	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to illegal hunting, it is quite natural that it is difficult to obtain precise statistics on its extent. It goes without saying that there are quite few who raise their hand and say: Hi, I have shot a wolf illegally. Hence, it may be difficult to obtain the statistics. But as I said, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency works with these assignments and has assignments for the researchers concerned to at least try to appreciate what it is like. It goes without saying to me that the goal cannot be anything but that we should not have an illegal hunt. The obvious goal must not be an illegal hunt. Then you can think about how to achieve that goal, Mr President. For me, it is quite clear, and also for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, that in its management plan, an important tool is to conduct a policy that leads to greater acceptance, which increases confidence in politics. The question then arises: does the left-wing predatory policy lead to this? No, really not. We need to pursue a predatory policy designed to ensure that the overall objectives of predatory policy apply, i.e. favourable conservation status, the possibility of animal husbandry and that socio-economic considerations are taken into account. Then I think it is important that we do not have a system that allows decisions on licence hunting and protection hunting to be stuck or parked in long legal proceedings. This was the reason why the Alliance tried to create a better functioning order where it had the opportunity to appeal, but it was made to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Now it is up to the government to explain how it is going to proceed in court in an effective way without the proceedings and cases being stuck in courts until the licensing decision is no longer valid. The question back to Jens Holm, who wants the courts to decide this, is whether he can present a proposal on how this should be done in a prompt and effective way.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-850	Mr President, I would like to I think it is interesting but also a little scary that we have parties in this Parliament who think that we should violate both Swedish law and international law. The Supreme Court notes that the legislation that you have introduced does not work and must be able to appeal against the decisions. Then I think Johan Hultberg can be a little honest, slow down and say: Okay, let's drop this requirement. We have international commitments to ensure that we have viable predator populations, and that is exactly what this whole issue is about. You still think you should go out and shoot those animals so that it endangers our international commitments. Mr President, I would like to I find it very worrying that we have parties in this House that do not respect international commitments and our own legislation.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-853	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are dealing with two reports, nature conservation and protection of areas and biodiversity, which have emerged earlier in this debate. With regard to the report on nature conservation and protection, the Liberals have no reservation, so we support the report in principle. On the other hand, we have a motion linked to a motion on liberal housing policy in which we are dealing with beach protection. Strandskydd has, among others, Kristina Yngwe mentioned here in a good way. However, this is an issue that I will also raise here later, because although it is dealt with in a simplistic way, it is very topical, and there is an announcement on this issue. As far as the second report, Biodiversity, is concerned, I am in favour of reservation 1, which deals with biodiversity and ecosystem services. It is a reservation that the Liberals have together with the other alliance parties. I would also like to draw the House's attention to the fact that there is a specific opinion linked to predatory policy, including that of the Liberals together with the other alliance parties. Mr President, I would like to When we debated rural policy last week, I said that one must constantly try to look at the whole. Even in today's debate, there are many links directly to rural policy, so the issues are patching up quite a lot. Now that we are talking about nature conservation and biodiversity, we can stand to repeat what I highlighted last week about environmental compensation and what an important element they are in the rural development programme. Through the environmental measures that they create the conditions for, we achieve sustainable food production, but they also create the conditions for open landscapes, which in turn are crucial for biodiversity and for strengthening natural and cultural values. Everything is connected in this context. Mr President, I would like to Returning to beach protection, it also largely has a rural dimension. As I said, we are highlighting this in a motion on housing policy from the Liberals. I want to make it clear that the Liberals' starting point is that we should have strong general beach protection, but it is about being able to differentiate it according to the value of protection and exploitation pressure. Kristina Yngwe spoke here about legitimacy and local anchoring being extremely important in this context, because if you do not get acceptance for legislation, it is actually perceived as an obstacle rather than an asset. The Alliance government, and not least the Liberals, have been the driving force in making changes to beach protection rules in order to allow for a more flexible application between areas with low and high exploitation pressures. However, our eagerness and ambition to get a very clear piece of legislation has made it necessary to push for further change. Here the current government has a great responsibility to take on board and come up with proposals. There is an announcement about this, because apparently the reforms that we wanted to implement have not been successful. This, in turn, prevents access to very attractive living environments that can be found in rural areas. Again, this is not about building our beaches, it is about being able to build more beachside than you do today in the unexploited areas. It is not, therefore, a question of weakening beach protection rules or protection. It is about making it more effective and about getting the necessary acceptance. A law that is acceptable is a strong piece of legislation. Mr President, I would like to Biodiversity has its own value that is a bit difficult to define. We cannot at all stages know exactly what the benefits of biodiversity are or what ecosystem service is linked to it. We must therefore have the starting point that it has its own value. However, there are many tangible values that we can see when we use our so-called ecosystem services. But here too we need to think long-term so that we can use them in a sustainable way. The ecological or environmental dimension is often a prerequisite for the economic and social dimension. There are different gradations, but it is important to include all dimensions when it comes to sustainability. It is about the ecosystem services that exist in fisheries, agriculture, forestry and hunting. Ecotourism is also an example of how our ecosystems are exploited. In reservation 1, the Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, highlight this very point. We stress the importance of working further on the objectives set by the EU biodiversity strategy by 2020, among other things. What is specifically highlighted is the development of the forest programme. We believe that the content of the forest programme provides an opportunity to develop environmental concerns in all types of forestry. We cannot govern forestry politically, but we can ensure that we develop the environmental considerations that can be taken into account. Mr President, I would like to As usual, we will discuss predatory issues in general and perhaps the wolf issue in particular. It's a recurring subject. There is also a notice in this area that the 2013 decision should remain unchanged. The fact that we are re-opening the subject is because there is a motion and also reservations from the Left Party that we want to change this direction. It is, of course, right to express this view, but the Liberals think that we should stick to the policy that was decided in 2013. Regardless of which benchmarks we refer to and otherwise other legislation and international agreements, we in Sweden must succeed in getting rules for good conservation status and local anchoring in the decisions. The 2013 decision is very much about the importance of moving out and regionalising the decisions. We have the Supreme Administrative Court's decision to relate, and that was taken up by Jens Holm. Nobody can reject such a decision, but that does not prevent us from sticking to the direction of the 2013 decision. That presupposes that we get to court proceedings that are equally effective. If I got Johan Hultberg right, that's exactly what he said. We can't obstinate such a thing. The problem is that there have been very lengthy proceedings, and we have seen that the court's path has been difficult to walk. But if we are now to go down the court line, as the Supreme Administrative Court has said, the government must ensure that we have a functioning system so that we get acceptance for how the hunt is to be conducted. This is not least about illegal hunting. One prerequisite for combating and eliminating illegal hunting is that there is a possibility of having legal hunting.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-874	Mr President, I would like to I may find it a little unfortunate that we spend so much time discussing wolves when there is so much else important to talk about under the broad concept of biodiversity, not least the forest, which Lars Tysklind mentioned. In this report, it is precisely the hunting of wolves and the way in which one looks at them is one of the sharp issues. I do not quite understand how you bourgeois argue about the right of appeal against hunting decisions. Lars Tysklind and I stood here a few weeks ago when the bourgeois parties made an announcement in the Chamber that they should not have the right to appeal hunting decisions to court. Then I told Lars Tysklind that there was a trial going on in the Supreme Administrative Court and asked how the Liberals would act if the verdict was to have the right to appeal hunting decisions to the court. Then Lars Tysklind replied, as far as I remember: We will take a position on that at the time. Now, Lars Tysklind, we have a judgment ahead of us. It came at the end of December 2015 and says that you should have the right to appeal hunting decisions to the court. Is it the Liberals' opinion that this ruling should apply?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-877	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I looked into what was said, because I thought the question might come up. As far as the announcement is concerned, we were clear that we wanted to await the Supreme Administrative Court ruling before taking the next step. The criticism of the government was that steps were being taken that were not known at that time whether they were necessary or not. As I said in my speech, we now have the Supreme Administrative Court's decision to deal with. According to it, there is a right to appeal against these decisions, and I have no difficulty accepting such a decision as a liberal or any other. Let's go back and see why in 2013 we decided that the conservation work would be the final instance in this. Well, it was to get processes that were useful so that it works in the system. It's one thing to appeal, and you should have that right. But the question must be resolved so quickly that the decision becomes a point. The problem was that the court proceedings took so long that hunting became obsolete that year. Should we continue with that system, it loses all legitimacy. I think you should ask the current government how it intends to ensure that the appeal process works with court proceedings and that times can be maintained. I believe that neither I nor anyone else in the bourgeois parties intend to obstinate a court order, for that would be pure stupidity.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-882	Mr President, I would like to I asked the question, of course, because the report contains a special opinion from all bourgeois parties. It is criticised that the government has made it possible to appeal against hunting decisions in Swedish courts. Why do you criticise it when it is fully in line with what the Supreme Administrative Court states? In the special opinion, you also say that the parliamentary decision on a sustainable predatory policy should be firm. It may be something quite different, but you raise it in the same context by not having the right to appeal decisions to a court. I think the burden of proof lies with you. You do not think that you should have the right to do what the Supreme Administrative Court says, namely appeal hunting decisions to a court. Then how are you going to solve it?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-886	Mr President, I would like to There may be some kind of circular reasoning, but the important thing in our particular opinion is that the direction of the 2013 decision should be firm. The most important thing in the focus was regionalization – that decisions were moved closer to the people they touch and that people in the areas where we have plenty of wolves felt that they had an impact in their own life situation. The design of the legal process as it did was one way of solving it so that it can become a functioning process, not just a delaying and preventing process. Jens Holm and I can well agree on appeals that only aim to make something impossible. Even if the court ruling is that you get the right to hunt, with the help of time it has made so impossible. That kind of process is actually completely wrong, isn't it? Now that we have the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court to deal with, the burden of proof lies rather with the current government when it comes to making proposals on how it should work now. We had a proposal, and it was – let us call it – rejected by legal bodies. But I don't think that's a big deal. I don't have a hard time dealing with that. However, I find it difficult to relate to Jens Holm's description that we are, by definition, against a certain system. We just want a functioning appeal system. First, people should have the right to appeal. They're supposed to have that right, and I'm totally behind it. This right also has organisations, according to the Aarhus Convention. Again: You can compare with what happens in other areas, such as the Planning and Construction Act. Appeals against certain decisions are only there to delay, and we cannot have those kinds of proceedings.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-893	Mr President, I would like to MJU6 Nature conservation and area protection concern, among other things, beach protection. In Sweden we have many lakes and streams and a long coastline. If you put it together, you actually get up to 900,000 miles. There's a lot of space to build seabirds. The Alliance government amended the beach protection rules with the aim of providing greater flexibility and facilitating coastal rural development, particularly in areas with low exploitation pressures. It would provide opportunities to build close to water by selecting rural development areas in coastal locations known as LIS. At the same time, the county administrative boards were given the opportunity to extend the beach shelter up to 300 metres where there are special reasons. Unfortunately, the rules have instead started to be applied in such a way that in practice it is 300 metres that apply unless there are specific reasons for it to be 100 metres. In the light of the lack of flexibility for beach-by-shore rural development in practice, the Riksdag announced to the Government in spring 2015 that it would make beach protection more effective throughout the country in order to improve the conditions for construction, housing and economic activity in coastal locations. Unfortunately, the Government has not yet taken any action in response to Parliament's decisions. I believe that the government must now start to follow the call and improve the conditions for building lakes in sparsely populated areas. It would mean a lot to the development of rural areas. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the report on Biodiversity, the Committee on Environment and Agriculture stated in December that it is important for the government to pursue the intentions behind the predatory policy decided by Parliament in 2013 and the announcement in spring 2015 of a continued selective wolf hunt. This means, among other things, that the government should maintain the current decision-making system for protection and licence hunting. In December 2015, the Riksdag decided once again to support what the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has said that the Government will pursue these intentions. The Christian Democrats believe it is very important that we have viable tribes of our native Swedish megafauna. This, of course, includes the large predators. At the same time, it is important that wild animals can coexist with man and with man's various activities. Research from North America shows that predators have the best chance of living in viable strains if there is an acceptance of predators among the local population. I mean, everyone needs to be able to say theirs. The decisions regarding the wolf must come from below, otherwise resistance increases. Acceptance must be there, and I think it's possible to get there. According to the Parliament's decision of December on the direction of predatory policy, domestic animal husbandry should not be significantly impeded. This has the consequence that we need, among other things, a functioning protection hunt. We also need an administrative hunt, which can take the form of licence hunting. The Christian Democrats believe that we in Sweden should have a targeted selective hunt for wolf. In order to improve the management of our predator strains and to continue to ensure survival and animal health, it is important that the role of regional wildlife conservation missions in the work is strengthened, as the Riksdag also announced to the Government in April 2015. Mr President, I would like to Predatory policy is complicated by the fact that the European Commission intervenes in a sometimes unfortunate way, based on the Species and Habitats Directive. One weakness of the directive is that it is not updated on the basis of the evolution of the conservation status of different species. This should be resolved by changing the Species and Habitats Directive so that the classification of endangered animals and plants can be better determined in Sweden. The Christian Democrats believe that we in Sweden should decide more about hunting and game conservation ourselves. At present, Brussels has too much power over how to hunt – or not – in our country. Therefore, the EU's Species and Habitats Directives need to be updated. The issue was recently raised in a vote in Brussels. On 2 February, the European Parliament voted on an input into the review of the EU Biodiversity Strategy. The report contains several important elements concerning, among other things, the marking of continued bans on, for example, some toxic sprays. However, the report also rejects a review of the Species and Habitats Directive and the requirement for common sustainability criteria for forestry. The Habitats Directive needs to be reviewed, not least because it too much governs game conservation, including hunting for wolves, a stance that we pressed hard on during the last election campaign. It should be clear to everyone that the 1979 Birds Directive and the 1992 Species and Habitats Directive, which deal with which species need protection, must be updated periodically. Some species included in the Directive are no longer under threat, while other new species may need to be added. In addition, the report calls for common criteria for sustainable forestry. But the conditions for forestry in Sweden and Greece, for example, are very different. It does not benefit biodiversity in Greece or Swedish forests to transfer more power over forest policy to the EU. In response to these questions, the Swedish Christian Democrat MEP, Lars Adaktusson, voted against the report. Unfortunately, all parties except the Christian Democrats and the Moderates in the European Parliament voted in favour of this resolution that the directive should absolutely not be revised. I support the joint reservation by the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats on biodiversity and ecosystem services. In addition, Mr President, we have chosen to present a joint special opinion from the Alliance in which we point out that there is cause for concern about the government's intentions with predatory policy, because in 2015 the government has continued to prepare a proposal to review decisions on protection and licence hunting that run counter to the current parliamentary decision. I support the proposal in MJU6, where we do not disagree.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-911	Mr President, I would like to There is reason to rejoice, and there is cause for concern when we talk about what we are talking about right now in this House, biodiversity and nature conservation. Worried are you when you take part of Johan Rockström and his research team's research on the planetary boundaries. They describe it as if we are driving on a narrow road near the abyss and need fences at the edge of the abyss to know how to steer our progress. For one of the borders, the one on biodiversity, we and the planet are far beyond the fence. The researchers have shown that it is normal for about ten species per million to disappear per year. But today, because of human influence, it is estimated that up to a thousand species per million disappear each year. It's a species extinction class with the dinosaurs disappearing from our planet. Mr President, I would like to The year before the UN's first environmental conference, which was held in 1972 here in Stockholm, Olof Palme gave an important speech in the Riksdag on environmental policy. He said, "Don't forget that environmental policy concerns something much more than a desirable but sometimes an exclusive nature conservation. It's about man's basic living conditions. ..................................................... What is surprising is that, to this day, we must constantly underline what Mr Palme said at the time. Now Rockström and his scientists have even put numbers and fences on it. We must continue to repeat it. The UN process with its Convention on Biological Diversity has given us tough laws in the EU and in Sweden. Ultimately, they are about our living conditions, how we affect nature and how we ensure that species are preserved. Research tells us that it is by preserving the habitats of species that we safeguard biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to During eight years of bourgeois government, this was an area that was hard hit by cuts to afford tax cuts. On the county boards, the mounds grew with requests for areas in need of protection, and in the government offices Andreas Carlgren and Lena Ek always sat and gave priority to the needs of landowners instead of the common heritage, biodiversity and nature conservation. Now we have a government that has chosen to start grazing off the pile with wishes seriously, looking more balanced at the needs of individuals and the general need. Budget appropriations have been strengthened – substantial. The work is in full swing. Something that is important to point out: During the years of bourgeois government, the appropriation for the management of our reserves was not increased even though new reserves were added at that time. It's kind of like a private property owner who bought a new house but didn't raise his budget for maintenance. I think that would have led to some problems. The bourgeois slimming down of the management of our nature was going on in silence. It was a totally unreasonable policy that led to less opportunities for the public to gain access to the reservations and less opportunities for in many cases completely necessary management. The meadows grew again, heaths were shuffled and joints disappeared. Instead, the job is now in full swing to rearrange joints and hire staff for care, cleaning, and more. It also provides jobs – not least important to point out. Mr President, I would like to There are many things that are good about Sweden. Our fantastic, protective nature is highly valued by the Swedes, ranging from the vast mountain world with thousands of unique species to the Scandinavian part of the taj gan, the boreal coniferous forest belt, as important for the planet's oxygen supply as the rainforest. These are unique species of mushrooms, mosses, lichens, vascular plants and animals. We also have the Great Lakes in Central Sweden: The Helmaren in my home county, Vättern, Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren with unique habitats along the beaches. We have the calcareous land on Gotland, Öland and Skåne with its incredible diversity of plants and unique insects. We have the remains of the peculiar and amazing hardwood forests that once covered southern Sweden. We can talk about the angelic land, with its wild roses, blue bells, lindflowers and chamomile, as Evert Taube interpreted it. We also have the pastures and the open landscape, where the winds get up and running. Where the larks beat loud in the sky, and sing wonderfully, as Ulf Lundell once wrote. Mr President, I would like to For many people, Swedish nature is the basis for their lifestyle – the opportunity to move around freely. When you ask the Swedes what is best with Sweden, the right of public access appears as something unique Swedish, something we can be proud of – the Swedish nature. The right of public access can be seen as part of the Swedish model. If you read several of the bourgeois motions discussed in the reports we are debating today, you can see that the Swedish model with the right of public access is strongly questioned. We Social Democrats see the protection of biodiversity, nature conservation and the preservation of public access rights as an important joint task, and we will not give in. We will fight for the Swedish model. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal as a whole in the reports on nature conservation, MJU6, and on biodiversity, MJU11, and reject all reservations.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-927	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for e tt in large parts beautiful post! It was philosophical on several points. It was, as I said, a beautiful description, but I did not have any answers on concrete policy. What does the government want more than to spend more money? On that question, Matilda Ernkrans's answer is guilty. Mr President, I am, of course, opposed to Matilda Ernkrans's description of the previous eight years and the time of the Alliance. During the time of the Alliance, the rate of disposal was greatly increased in terms of protection of a valuable nature. We got Sweden's first marine national park. We got a biodiversity strategy in place. We took strong action in marine environmental work through the establishment of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. And there was a lot more to it. The pace of work on biodiversity really increased during the time of the Alliance, and we got concrete policies in place. Now, Mr President, Matilda Ernkrans talks in her introduction about us driving on a narrow road. The problem is that the government that is going to take us forward is barely holding steering speed. There's a lot of trouble to get along internally. This is expressed in the form that each and every other bill is withdrawn or delayed. We also see this in the work on the national forestry programme, where meetings are cancelled. We see this in the work on the food strategy, where the government comes empty-handed to the meetings and has no ideas on how to take the work forward. This makes the fine words in this Chamber quite hollow. Matilda Ernkrans! What are the concrete proposals of the so-called cooperation government on how to improve work on biodiversity – more than increasing funding?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-931	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the previous government, which, like Johan Hultberg in this House, was good at publishing the text and words, this government is putting forward tools and budget appropriations to make the beautiful words a reality. Environmental spending was about 4 billion under the bourgeois alliance government. They have now increased to 7 billion in 2016. We make substantial investments in what is biological diversity and nature conservation. We invested 250 million in 2015 and an additional 340 million annually in 2016 for protection of a valuable nature. We spend 240 billion annually from 2016 on care. We also protect marine reserves. The former bourgeois alliance government was very good at publishing the text, but very bad at negotiating in-house new money and new and effective instruments for securing our biodiversity. Therefore, I can feel very proud and very confident that this government, unlike the former bourgeois alliance government, is capable of both speaking in fine words and delivering good politics and good budget appropriations. I can ask the question back: is it not symptomatic that, in his recent speech on biodiversity and nature conservation, Moderate Johan Hultberg spent most of his time talking about how he could strengthen landowners' interests and further break public rights and access to our shores rather than talking about species extinction?
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-935	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, Mr Ernkrans has hardly listened to my speech. For example, I did not mention the word 'everyman's right'. I do not think that my speech could have revolved so much around this particular issue, although it is an important issue that I am happy to come back to in debates. I asked Matilda Ernkrans a question about the concrete measures, which are about something other than just an increase in funding. I should like to reply: increased appropriations. It is all about the money, Matilda Ernkrans's melody. We must pursue a policy that is result-oriented, and I can see that when we drew up the balance sheet of the Alliance Government, there were very good results in this area. We had increased the sales rate, and we had got a clear strategy on the ground that this government had to continue working on. It lays a good foundation, but it is precisely a focus strategy that needs to be filled with more concrete measures. It also needs to be put into practice. This government still has it on its table. Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I put a specific question to the government parties on how to respond to predatory policy and how they intend to take decisions on protection hunting and licence hunting as a matter of urgency. The government must ensure that decisions on protection hunting and licensing can be enforced within a reasonable time. The question is how it should now be done when the appeals are now to go back through the courts.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-939	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous speech, the conditions for actually doing politics really are so much better if you manage to raise the environmental allocation from 4 billion, as it was under the bourgeois alliance government, to 7 billion, as it is now in 2016, and not only put in new policies but also economic strength for the work being done around our country to safeguard biodiversity and to set up nature reserves and, in fact, also make them available to a wider public. It's about important and real jobs around our country. Creating new jobs in and around our environmental policy is extremely important, not least because it is the basis of our living conditions. To continue working towards sustainable development, which is capable of economic, social and ecological development, is extremely important for this government. Unlike the Moderates, I am very convinced that it will be so much easier if you also have an economy and increased budget appropriations to do just that. The issue of dealing with our Swedish predators and the pursuit of them has for a long time been toiling with governments. It would therefore be presumptuous of me to stand here and say that we have come up with the ultimate solution. However, the Supreme Administrative Court rejected the decision on how to deal with appeals that Johan Hultberg and his party had preferred. In fact, regardless of the government, such a ruling by the Supreme Administrative Court must be dealt with. This government has done so. Of course, this should not mean a return to something that was before and that did not work, but one must find a way forward.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-944	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating two reports in two important and related areas, Biodiversity and Nature conservation and protection. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in both these reports to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Biodiversity is a prerequisite for the ecosystem's ability to deliver all that we humans must have to live here on earth. Food, water, materials, energy, pollination, health and nature experiences are examples of so-called ecosystem services on which we depend. Future generations must also have access to all these services. In Sweden, we have formulated it jointly in the generational goal, which reads: It's a responsible and important mission we've taken on. Madam President, I would like Last autumn, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency presented its in-depth evaluation of our 16 environmental quality objectives. They call the evaluation Steering with a view to environmental objectives. The questions are answered: How far have we come? What targets are we able to achieve by 2020 with the measures decided on today? In which parts is the development going completely the wrong way? What does the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency recommend that we politicians do to make progress in the right direction? The Environmental Protection Agency's evaluation is interesting and important reading. The fact that, at the current rate, we only have the chance to achieve two of the objectives – protecting ozone layer and safe radiation environment – by 2020 should be a wake-up call for all politicians, as well as the fact that for several of the targets it is going in the wrong direction. This applies, among other things, to certain objectives that we should have discussed more in today's debate: a rich flora and fauna, teeming wetlands, Living forests and Living lakes and streams. I do not think that all the participants in this debate have read the Environmental Protection Agency's evaluation. I only heard Jens Holm mention it. I think a few quotes might be appropriate. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency writes, among other things, that the environmental condition for nature types and species is generally poor and in many cases negative. In Sweden, three quarters of the habitats and half of the species included in the Habitats Directive do not have favourable conservation status. The situation is most serious for our meadows and pastures as well as nature types in the forest and the sea. – – – The valuable grasslands of the growing landscape are not managed and grow again. In the forest, key biotopes are harvested and there is a shortage of forests with long continuity and natural disturbances such as flooding and fires. Marine habitats are affected by eutrophication and commercial fishing. So far, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. What difference does it make if some plants, mushrooms and animals disappear? Yes, the problem is that it can lead to the collapse of entire ecosystems, and it also affects our own chances of survival in the long run. Madam President, I would like Globally, some things have been done to stop extinction. For example, the UN countries have agreed to protect 17% of all land and fresh water areas. The EU Species and Habitats Directives and Birds Directives have also been a success for nature conservation across Europe. But we have a long way to go, even in Sweden. According to Statistics Sweden's statistics for 2014, for example, only 3.7 per cent of the productive forest land in Sweden has long-term protection. In other words, we have a bit left to 17%. In Sweden, the previous government also did its best to circumvent EU legislation, which prohibits the pursuit of endangered animal species. The soup with the wolf hunt is now something our government is trying to deal with. I look forward to a future where the wolf tribe has grown strong and healthy in Sweden, i.e. where migratory wolves can easily enter and start a family and where we can have an orderly hunt for wolves that are found in places where they should not be. Madam President, I would like The appropriation for the protection of valuable natural areas was eroded during the eight years of bourgeois rule. With the Green Party in the government, a much greater effort is being made. This year there are 1.3 billion for the protection of valuable nature and just over 1 billion for the management of our nature reserves and national parks. Since our red-green government came to power, these appropriations have been increased by over 60%. It is a historic, necessary and long-awaited effort on biodiversity. Sweden has, as I said, a long way to go in terms of nature conservation and biodiversity. We should be proud that we are good at environmental work. According to a global environmental ranking of countries, which the University of Yale and the World Economic Forum are behind, Sweden was in ninth place in 2014. However, as far as nature conservation and biodiversity are concerned, the situation is worse. That's where we're just in place 89 out of 177. I see no reason why a rich country like Sweden should be so weak. It is, once again, gratifying that we have a government that is making a historic effort to protect valuable nature on land and in water. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a forest-rich country. However, in order to promote biodiversity in our forests, it is not enough to protect forests. It is also important to increase environmental considerations in the used forest. We need the modernisation of the Forest Protection Act and more support for non-viable forestry practices. Farming the forest without the greenery not only benefits biodiversity. It also benefits outdoor life, tourism and a vibrant countryside. Two weeks ago, I from the Environmental Party and Lars Tysklind from the Liberals arranged a seminar here in the Riksdag on forestry without the huts. There were exciting discussions between the participants from the Ecotourism Association, Naturskyddsföreningen, the company Silvaskog, who advocate clean methods, and the state forest company Sveaskog, who does not. The municipal councillor and the municipal manager from Laxå municipality had got on the train and went up to Stockholm only to attend the seminar. Why? Because they are concerned about how Sveaskogs kalhygges- och plantationbruk threatens the municipality's biggest attraction – Tivedens national park. It is around Tiveden's National Park that the only move-in takes place in this move-out municipality. This is also where the new companies start. The municipal director took the opportunity to once again appeal to Sveaskog to use the last remains of natural forests around the national park with non-sensical methods. The entrepreneurs of the area have given vivid descriptions of visitors' comments on forestry around the national park. Tourists from Central Europe, where kalhygten is rare, are both unparalleled and upset, and compare Swedish forestry with pure war actions. A group of students from Borneo wondered if Sweden was so poor that we had to destroy our forests. With clean methods in the forest, we benefit not only biodiversity but also outdoor life, tourism and a vibrant countryside. Madam President, I would like A very cost-effective way to promote biodiversity is to protect the nursery of animals and plants – the beaches. Strandskydd och allemanrätt is two Swedish inventions that I am particularly proud of and that the Environmental Party considers very important to protect. It is – once again – a question of both promoting biodiversity and safeguarding outdoor life, tourism and living countryside. Madam President, I would like Finally, I am grateful that today we have a government that is trying to steer towards environmental objectives and is concerned that we have a bourgeois opposition and Swedish democrats who want to steer in an entirely opposite direction.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-961	Madam President, I would like It is fortunate that we have a debate on forestry policy next week. There was a lot in Mrs StinaBergström speech that I really feel we have reason to discuss further. The description of Swedish forestry given by Stina Bergström I am extremely strongly opposed to. In Swedish forestry there is no devastation. We have a fundamentally sustainable forestry where biomass increases from year to year and where our forest owners take a very large voluntary responsibility and generally a very good consideration. That is why I am concerned when a representative of the government parties expresses herself in the manner that we have just heard Stina Bergström speaking in this House. I am concerned that work on the national forestry programme is not progressing quickly enough. It is an important tool for taking further steps in developing environmental considerations in farming and for our forest owners to continue to take a great deal of responsibility by setting aside land for nature conservation. I think we will have to come back to those questions next week, Stina Bergström. I would like to return to predatory policy. It is interesting that Stina Bergström does not really get the whole picture together, as I see it. Bergström points out in his speech that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is especially promoting the problem of our meadows and pastures growing again. Then one must face the truth and note that large predators are often a concern precisely for animal husbandry, which is crucial for keeping our meadows and meadows open. I would like to ask Stina Bergström: Does the Green Party not see any concern at all about the fact that we have ever larger predatory strains that cause keepers to end their animal husbandry and thus see increasingly overgrown meadows and pastures? This, Madam President, is leading to an increasing loss of biodiversity.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-967	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that if Johan Hultberg had listened a little more carefully to my speech, he would have heard that I quoted what tourists from Central Europe and students from Borneo think about Swedish forestry. I take the right to do so, even if I represent a government party. When it comes to Johan Hultberg's question whether I am not concerned that we have started to have a larger wolf tribe in Sweden and that it would cause meadows and pastures to grow again more, I am not concerned about that. If we look at the development of how many we have in Sweden – it's a lot about sheep and the wolf problem – they increase. This is because we Swedes have started to eat more lamb meat. That's very positive. I think it's a good form of meat. Another problem – if we are talking about animals, keeping land open and also getting diversity in the forest – is grazing pressure in our forests. This applies not least in Småland where you don't have much wolves. It's a big problem that you can't put pine plants without only spruce plants that make it in our forests. There, I think we could use a larger wolf tribe holding the moose. Then perhaps we will have an elk strain as large as the one in Finland, where you do not have this problem at all.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-970	Madam President, I would like If we start where Stina Bergström stopped, I really don't think an increased predator's strain is the answer to how to reduce grazing damage in Swedish forestry. Rather, we see that where the wolf tribe, for example, has grown very large, the hunt stops many times. You stop hunting lice dogs. This often gives you a bigger problem with the grazing damage. I don't think that's the answer. We shall have a favourable conservation status for our predators. But I don't think it should be used as a tool in coping with the grazing damage. For me as a moderate, it is very important that we pursue a policy that strengthens the competitiveness of Swedish forestry but also the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. It is important for Swedish biodiversity and our conservation work. That is why I am concerned that work on, for example, the food strategy aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture is not progressing sufficiently fast. It is absolutely essential that we have grazing mules and active farmers keeping our meadows and pastures open. Otherwise, we will never meet our environmental objectives and then, for example, the objective of a rich agricultural landscape. Madam President, I would like If we are going to return to the question of predator management, I would like to ask Mrs Bergström the same question that I put to Mrs Ernkrans earlier. How will the government ensure that decisions on protection and licence hunting can be taken promptly? I have noted that the government has mentioned that there should be an urgent requirement on the courts for the proceedings. But how can we ensure that things go fast enough? These questions must now be answered by the government. I note that the Administrative Court has issued its opinion. But now you have to answer from the government on how to create a working model so that licensing and protection hunting matters are not parked in lengthy legal processes.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-974	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for that question! I can only agree that it is very important that we have working processes. It is very important that we can carry out an effective protection hunt on wolves that are where they should not be close to domestication or perhaps even in sheep pastures. It is therefore also unfortunate that we have had the system introduced by the bourgeois government in violation of the Aarhus Convention. This situation could have been resolved a few years ago with a functioning inventory system and a functioning system that decides how many wolves are to be hunted on etcetera. Then you get an appeal process that makes it ready before it is too late to hunt the wolves, for example. This is particularly important when it comes to hunting for protection on wolves. Nor do we have the same appeal process today. It is important to be able to shoot wolves before they do damage if they are too close to the domestication. This is something the government is working on. I feel confident that it will be solved in a good way. I also feel confident that the government will come forward with a proposal for a food strategy. It has been said that it will be presented in the spring according to the decisions it has taken. In this respect, I hope that we can have a common understanding of the fundamentals of that food strategy. It is important that we have one in Sweden for several reasons.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-978	Madam President, I would like I'll bring up some questions about the forest. Well, maybe it's not that strange considering I was involved in arranging a forest seminar. Stina Bergström even said that I was involved in doing that. But it must be said that the description that Stina Bergström made here did not match the whole picture. What was also said was that environmental protection rules, whatever type of forestry one has, have gone surprisingly much forward. What also emerged was that it is very important that we do not decide exactly how forestry should be conducted from a political point of view. There are very many different types of forests where it is suitable for different types of forestry. Now it was linked to what students from abroad and such have said. I would really like to point out that that is not what the discussion was about, and I hope that Stina Bergström can verify what I am saying in this context. If we are talking about environmental regulations in the forest, the responsibility, just as Johan Hultberg mentioned, naturally falls back on the government parties to work out a good content in a national forest programme where you really make sure to have the opportunity to take the necessary environmental considerations into account. After all, my position is that in principle all forest owners want to take environmental considerations in one way or another, so that must be the starting point. The fact that we politicians use words like this in our descriptions is, in my opinion, very distortive.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-982	Madam President, I would like I didn't quite understand the question, but Lars Tysklind asked me to verify that there were different views at this seminar, and that was absolutely the case. We also discussed the importance of environmental considerations in different types of forestry. What I was talking about in my speech was not that we should steer towards different types of forestry but that you have to give support to decent forestry if it is to get started properly. I know that my in-laws, for example, were given plantation support when they were going to replant their fields in the 70s and 80s, and when they wanted farmers and forest owners to go over to kalhyggesbruk, they received support for such things. I therefore believe that we also need support today in order to get a new and other form of clean forestry going. We also need research in this area and such things. I see that we will have different types of forestry, and I am sure we will also have largely conventional forestry. However, it is easier to combine clean forestry with ecotourism, outdoor life and social considerations in the forests that are close to where we live and so on. I think I've answered Lars Tysklind's questions.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-986	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it was not a direct question, but more a comment on what Stina Bergström said. I can only say that Stina Bergström has a much more nuanced picture of forestry in general and in particular of what the seminar was about. I want to say that that seminar was very important, and what I found interesting was that forest owners didn't scream for contributions at all, but rather felt that we shouldn't have such a lot of rules in heaven. In this way you can actually have a clean forestry. What was also said was that under certain conditions it is also a profitability in taking out the trees as and when. So there is a very balanced picture also among forest owners, and I think it is absolutely important that we nevertheless state that environmental and production objectives must stand side by side, not least now that we have discussed the work on climate and the role of forests in this regard. Not only can we get caught up in the preservation and protection of forests, but we must be able to discuss how we can use forests for substitution, where we use forest products as a substitute for other products that have a more fossil origin. It is good to note that the Green Party and Stina Bergström are also looking for good court proceedings, but I still think it was a bit unclear. What we're talking about is the license hunt that's been and that's been made impossible because of court proceedings. Now the Supreme Administrative Court has said that one should be able to appeal to a court, but then the current government has a huge responsibility to make a proposal so that this works in court.
i-5518bbc79ba916fc-990	Madam President, I would like We have had the EU's eyes on us for a long time when we have pursued or approved a licence hunt. I find that worrying for a number of reasons, not least because a reaction from the European Union with a 'no' to wolf hunting at all could lead to us not being able to pursue a good protection hunt on the wolf. I think that would be very unfortunate, and I hope that we do not end up in that situation. I have to say once again that the decision that now came from the Supreme Administrative Court was expected. Such decisions must be subject to appeal to a judicial body. The Green Party has long believed that this is how we must have it, and then it is clear that we have to start from that when we do the processes and decide on protection hunting and, possibly in the future, a licence hunt when we have a wolf tribe that is so viable that we can carry out a licence hunt. That is what I hope for at some point in the future, but we are not there yet. The big problem that we need to solve is how we get effective immigration. Last year I think there were three wolves who had immigrated to Sweden, and two have been shot. So there is only one left who has the chance to reproduce and get puppies, which is very important if we are to get a viable wolf strain in Sweden. So I hope so. Then there is a lot that I would like to say about the forest, but, as I said, next week we have a forest debate, and I look forward to being able to debate more forestry issues then.
