i-2033913ddc33407a-0	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals' parliamentary group has therefore asked for this extraordinary debate in the Chamber in view of the at least 53 vulnerable districts that the police have identified as very worrying. This happened long before the news about the district of Borlänge, Tjärna meadows, led the public and not least our political colleagues to realise that we need to do more about these exclusion areas. These are areas to which the police do not have full access. These are areas where people feel insecure. Whether it's experienced or actually not, a lot of people are worried about their lives and the situation of their children. These are areas where police, fire brigades and other socially important functions cannot enter without being hit or stoned. This is not something we can accept. It is not something we can resolve alone as a parliament, but it must of course be done at different levels. But clearly we have a much greater responsibility in terms of arms legislation, social services and what powers we give the police. The Regerin gene has announced a conversation with the blue light operations. It will be very exciting to hear what these conversations have led to. From the Liberals, we also want to see, not least, what the new Minister for Coordination has in his plan for these areas. Of course, this morning we will also be presenting our proposals.
i-2033913ddc33407a-4	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the news that reached us yesterday and that dominates the headlines this morning, namely the bestiali will murder one of our colleagues in the UK. In a free and democratic society, the workers of democracy are once again affected. This can stand to be noticed in Parliament on a day like this. Our thoughts go to her family and her loved ones. Mr President, I would like to Thankfully, we live in free and democratic societies, but there are no lack of challenges. On the contrary, we are constantly working to strengthen democracy, security, equality and freedom in our societies. Like Roger Haddad, I have read a lot in recent years about the challenges that exist in parts of our country. I'm saying our country, because there can't be us and them here. Sweden is us, and every time people's rights are violated somewhere in our society, it is a matter for all of us. The stone throwing and other things described by Roger Haddad, which prevent rescue personnel, firefighters, ambulance personnel and police from entering parts of our country, must never be accepted. It is not just about the security of those who are employed for our service, our security and our freedom, but also about the many people who need this service. When an ambulance goes out, it's because someone's acutely ill. When the fire department goes out, it's because there's a need for emergency services of various kinds – fire or something else. When the police leave, it is because they assume that a crime against people is either planned or ongoing. Mr President, I would like to Forgive my choice of words, but every time I see this, I get pissed off. It could be my mother, my friend, or someone close to me who finds himself in a vulnerable position and doesn't get the help they need. What, then, is our answer to this? In the short term, it must be about the police being present – not just going to jail but being present in many of these areas right from the start. That's what the government and the police do. It is about reviewing the penalties, so that it becomes very clear that this is not something we accept. While we have legislation that already says this today, the Ministry of Justice is now looking at whether something further needs to be done in the field of penalties. It is also a question of getting hold of those who commit these crimes, so that they can be prosecuted. But this is not enough. Although what I have just mentioned is important and a clear answer, it is not enough. I myself grew up in one of these areas. I know what it means when unemployment is high. I have sometimes thought about what my life could have looked like if my two parents hadn't got a job quite quickly after we came to Sweden. I'm sure it would have looked completely different. I am absolutely sure that I would not have been here in this debate today. Firstly, the most important thing we can do and what the government has been working on from day one is to combat unemployment and ensure that people get an orderly situation, a self-esteem and can take responsibility for themselves and their children, because basically there are parents. Secondly, we have to reverse school results. When young people throw stones, it is often an expression of failure that has been going on for a very long time. It may have been established already in primary school and has since continued in inadequate and incomplete education. We must therefore also reverse school results. I am pleased that my colleague at the Ministry of Education, Gustav Fridolin, has started such work, with targeted support for the schools that need it most. Thirdly, we also need to strengthen the civil organisations that we know are making great efforts. Basically, it is about taking joint responsibility, and therefore the government will also continue to strengthen these organisations that work specifically in areas where there are very tough conditions. Fourthly, housing shortages and overcrowding must be remedied, and the environment and public services must be strengthened. When you feel abandoned and like nobody cares about you, it's easier to get involved in contexts where you say: I don't give a shit about the rules and don't care what the others think! It is important to take short-term action on the police, penalties and prosecution of crimes, but it is also important that we take on these important long-term measures. In my second speech, I will come back to them in more detail.
i-2033913ddc33407a-16	Mr President, I would like to In the Moderate plan for a stronger Sweden, security for everyone increases, for Sweden will work, with a security that can actually be trusted. For many people, Sweden is already a safe country where you feel that we have trust in each other and in society. At the same time, however, security is far from self-evident for everyone, and it is most evident in exclusion areas and in vulnerable neighbourhoods. As mentioned earlier, the police have identified 53 areas around Sweden that are exposed to serious crime. 15 of these describe the situation as particularly serious. These are gang deals that have ended with innocent victims. These are shootings and acts of violence, policemen who are hit by stones, rescue services who have their equipment cut apart, ambulance staff who cannot do their job without the police accompanying them, victims who do not dare to testify because of revenge actions, young people who are restricted in their lives because of violence of honour and repression and unfortunately also radicalisation and extremism. This is not how it should be in Sweden. That's not how it's supposed to be anywhere in our country. We must all stand up to show how completely unacceptable this development is. At the same time, the problem is broad. Unemployment in these areas is too high. The school results are too low. I welcome the debate today. It is good that the issues are being discussed. There is certainly no disagreement in this House about the importance of jobs, security and education. But it is not enough just to talk about the issues. Action is also needed, and a plan is needed to make the necessary efforts. We need to create more pathways to the labour market, especially for those farthest from it. We Moderates have proposed what we do first job employment, so that more people can get a chance to get the very first job. It also creates the conditions for people to be able to get their second and third jobs. We need to raise the requirements for people to strive to do the right thing. We believe that requirements and controls in benefit systems need to be stepped up. At the same time, we need an education obligation for adults who come to Sweden and who do not have primary education. It's crucial, we think, for more people to just get hired. Mr President, I would like to Increasing the demands is part of standing up for Swedish values, such as that we should all contribute and do the right thing for us. But I also think that we need to be clearer about what values we want to apply in Sweden. That is why we have proposed a mandatory social test for new arrivals with withdrawn contributions in the event of non-presence. It is actually about ensuring knowledge and knowledge that in Sweden all men and women should actually be treated equally. It should be clear to everyone from day one that honour violence and oppression are unacceptable and that everyone who lives in Sweden should do everything in your power to actually get a job and be able to support themselves. Mr President, I would like to The way into society begins for the vast majority of people in school. Therefore, the Moderates have proposed zero tolerance to bad schools. All people should have the right to good knowledge, no matter in which area in Sweden they happen to live. An active school selection and a joint queue with both free schools and municipal schools are needed to increase opportunities for more mixed classes. Through efforts to ensure that all students can go to good schools and raise knowledge in school – for example, this is about more teaching time, as we have suggested – we believe that more people can be given the opportunity to move on to work or study rather than to exclusion. Mr President, I would like to Jobs, self-sufficiency and zero tolerance to bad schools are central to breaking the new exclusion that we see in the most vulnerable neighbourhoods. At the same time, prevention is a crucial factor, such as ensuring that more social workers are on the ground even after office hours, so that you better meet young people. Local and close security work is important. The basis for Sweden to function is also that law and order are maintained. In a stronger Sweden, the rule of law does not leave any or any area outside. The basis for getting a job and a good school is, in fact, that you can feel safe, that you know that the police or ambulance will come if you need it and that the rule of law does not fail anyone. It is difficult, Mr President, to look for work if you cannot feel safe when you go out into the streets and squares. Efforts to improve school education play a very small role if the school hall is repeatedly set on fire. Therefore, Sweden needs at least 2 000 new police officers in place, especially in areas where security is at its lowest. We have also proposed, Mr President, that reactions to attacks on blue-light personnel should be tightened up. That is why, together in the Alliance, we have proposed that violence against officials, for example, should be a crime of its own, where the minimum sentence is six months in prison. Efforts are needed here and now as well as long-term work at all levels to reverse developments in the areas of exclusion. It also requires a government that knows where to go and does not want to turn a blind eye to the problems. And it requires that you have a plan for a stronger Sweden. The Moderates do.
i-2033913ddc33407a-27	Mr President, I would like to In short, that is one reason why we are having this debate today: i.e. the immigration policy of the other seven parties in the last 30 or 40 years. It's really that simple. If the policy of grossly irresponsible immigration had not been pursued and combined with equally irresponsible multiculturalism, we would not have to stand here and talk about riots, violence and attacks against society in our suburbs. It's lesson number one for all the other parties. Lesson number two is that the measures that you have been testing for decades but failed to do are as bad today as they were then. As Einstein said: The definition of madness is to do the same thing over and over again and expect a different result. Unfortunately, much of that product is obtained in this House. A few months ago I had a debate with Roger Haddad from the Liberals, perhaps not specifically on the alienation areas and riots in the suburbs but on radicalisation and terrorism, which has a certain connection to this. At prime time, Haddad raised a stake of SEK 25 million, as the recipe for radicalisation. I think it shows a bit of what I just said: that the old methods that have not worked are being tested over and over again. 25 million kroner is disappearing a little in this context, if you look at the society at large. And what would this money do? Yes, to mosques and recreation centres. 25 million for mosques and recreation centres was the proposal that the Liberals in prime time focused on in News in SVT, in the hope that it will change something. My analysis is that it probably won't change anything at all. And if it does, it may rather be in a bad direction, because then they also pump money into the organisations where radicalisation takes place. It is about as naive as when we discussed organised crime in 2012. The Green Party's proposal to combat organised crime was free of charge. Despite decades of these imaginative integration projects, there is almost no self-criticism and self-awareness. We have already heard of similar fanciful proposals, and we will probably also hear about that in this debate. Both the former Alliance Government and the Social Democratic Government previously pursued a policy that cemented and increased the problems in the so-called vulnerable areas. The People's Party even had a non-predominance list that, when they were in opposition, showed how bad it had become. Then they changed the basis for calculating it when they themselves entered the re gation to make it appear finer when things actually got worse. Still, at the time of writing, we have an immigration rate of around 25 000 per year. This corresponds to a smaller Swedish city each year. And then I do not include family immigration, labour immigration or, for that matter, illegal immigration. So we are still probably talking about people corresponding to a medium-sized Swedish city who every year comes into this country. Mr President, I would like to In the short term, it is a question of regaining control of the areas we are now discussing, over which we have lost control to varying degrees. It has to be done by putting a lot of pressure on it. For quite a long time, the Swedish Democrats have proposed a number of different measures in a number of areas to make this possible. Step one is zero asylum and family immigration, not 25 000, not 50 000, not 100 000, but zero. In addition, we in Sweden today have people who should not be here, as the government itself says. They want 80 000 out of those who have been refused their asylum application. We want to reconsider and review them with permanent or temporary residence permits. Have they cheated? Have they lied their way into the country or something like that? We also want to review those who have obtained their citizenship on the wrong grounds in order to nullify them, so that we can even achieve negative immigration into this country. Then I am not talking about law-abiding immigrants who do their best to become part of society and to embrace Swedish culture, but I am talking about those who misbehave or otherwise cheat into the country and those who do not want to join the Swedish nation. In addition, we have budgeted for training 7 000 new police officers up to 2022. The Moderates presented a budget for 1 000 new police officers last autumn. The erosion of police density has been going on for a number of years, and in a few years' time we will be on the same police density as, I think, in 2010. The emergency police were removed in 2012 by the Alliance government, supported by the Social Democrats and the others as well. We were against this, and we have budgeted each year to reintroduce it. For example, emergency police can be used to curb riots in our country. One can quickly gather several hundred or perhaps even thousands of police officers to help prosecute those who are committing these riots, which has not happened so far. In the Husby riot, for example, nothing happened. We also want to see a special penalty for attacks on blue light operations. A few years ago, I put forward a proposal for a leprechaun legislation that they have in Denmark, where there will be a penalty base if you commit disorder during other disorder of order. We want the penalty for attacks on blue light operations to be harsh. We want to see a minimum level of four years. The reason we want the high penalty is, of course, that such attacks risk the lives and health of bluelight personnel, but it also affects the law-abiding citizens who live in these suburbs and who may not have access to ambulances, fire brigades or the public service they need to survive or survive. That is why it is an extremely serious crime, and that is why we also want to see that punishment. I will return in my second speech to further proposals that we have.
i-2033913ddc33407a-42	Mr President, I would like to Today's current debate is about the situation in vulnerable neighbourhoods. Basically, it is a matter of everyone who grows up in Sweden having the opportunity to shape their own life and reach their potential. That is not the case today. There are several obstacles that in different ways stop us from doing so. We must shape a policy that can break a negative spiral, which can make people and therefore neighbourhoods grow. Such a policy must be forward-looking. However, it must not be naive. There is no contradiction between being tough on crime and being tough on crime. Without the latter, the past will only be opportunism. A major problem in several cities today is insecurity, criminality, poor schools and overcrowding. Society must invest and provide new opportunities for life. But we must also make demands. For many young people growing up today, there are too few ways to become someone, to be seen, to have respect and to be seen. One is to become a professional football player. It may indeed be a path for anyone, but for the majority it will never be a reality. It can't be the only way. For the Zlatan who does not break through on the football field, other roads must be available to become a hairdresser, mechanical engineer, nurse or traffic planner – to get a job and a context. For too many young people growing up today, a life of crime is too close. Perhaps it starts innocently with truancy from school, a context of older, minor crimes that run into something worse. Early intervention is crucial for young guys on glide not to end up in a fast downward spiral. The vulnerable districts we are discussing are all too often characterised by crime and hence insecurity. Against this, society must act. The main problem is serious organised crime, with men living outside society and having their own laws and rules. The police must give priority to this. The government has already taken some steps, but more will have to be done. Better opportunities for authorities to exchange information from this summer onwards is an important step. We politicians must also remain sensitive to the wishes of the authorities in order to tackle and combat serious organised crime. The root cause of serious organised crime is money. It is therefore important that we see the whole chain. Some financial crime may seem more innocent. But it costs 70 crowns to ride a taxi, under a hundred cents to cut your hair, 25 crowns for a pack of cigarettes or 25 crowns for a beer at the restaurant you have to ask yourself if laws and rules have been followed and what the conditions really are. The black economy is linked to serious economic crime. They are the same shameless people who smuggle cigarettes and black liquor that smuggle drugs, people and weapons. It is the same shameless people who exploit workers with underpaid jobs who do not pay their taxes. Working against the black economy in all its forms means that we are working against the ruthless exploitation of people. If we are to combat serious financial crime, we are also to counter one of the dangerous doors for young boys on glide who today have as one of their opportunities to become someone, to be seen, by making careers as a career criterion. For every young guy we can prevent on that track, we save both money and increase security. But we also give a person a future. A lot starts in school. The best teachers and most of the resources will be invested in the schools with the toughest challenges. In the spring budget, there is a special effort at these very schools. We will invest in renovating the most worn-out residential areas. We must, as far as possible, prevent overcrowding and offer leisure activities in vulnerable areas. At the same time, we must make very clear demands. To commit crimes and spread insecurity is never okay. Violence and stoning against blue light personnel are particularly problematic. It is totally unacceptable and must be countered. In the millions of programme areas, victims as well as perpetrators and residents experience anxiety and insecurity, while at the same time having low confidence in the police and their ability to solve crime. According to a report that came from Miklo a few years ago, it is a recurring perception among residents in the millions of program areas that those police officers who behave in doubt are acting racistly. The report shows that a quarter of victims do not report this and that confidence in the police is particularly low among young men. These data show a serious confidence gap between residents and one of the most important parts of the state – the police. If people in vulnerable neighbourhoods do not have confidence in the police, the likelihood of crimes being reported and people standing up and testifying is reduced, and the risk is that the tips from the public will not be heard. It also leads to a reduced sense of security and a reinforced feeling of being left out. Another part of this is the emergence of police hatred. There are riveting images of police officers in a way that further enhances the sense of insecurity and vulnerability. This, in turn, risks creating unacceptable conflicts and attracting different individuals to riots. To improve communication and understanding between police and young people, the Police Association and Fryshuset have a joint dialogue project. In Gothenburg there is also the Human Behind the Uniform project, which aims to improve the dialogue between young people and people in the uniform professions. The Green Party wants to build Sweden stronger by ensuring that the police can work effectively with law enforcement and by combating the root causes of crime. We must reverse the development of our most vulnerable neighbourhoods and create a safer society where more people feel confident and empowerment.
i-2033913ddc33407a-59	Mr President, I would like to It's an evening in May 2014. An ambulance is on its way to Södersjukhuset. In the car there is a severely ill patient in need of emergency care. Suddenly there's a fire, and the compartment is filled with glass fragments. Someone threw a stone right through the windshield of the ambulance. The incident could have had disastrous consequences, both for the patient and for the ambulance staff. This time they made it, and the ambulance continued into the hospital without a front window. The year before, during a call in Jakobsberg, it suddenly rains stones against Mattias and his colleagues in the fire truck. One of the stones goes through the window and hits Mattias in the head. Thanks to the helmet, he survives, but a big jack in the same helmet testifies to how bad it could have gone. The driver is not hit and can drive from there before more firemen are hit by the stones that wines through the air. I think a lot of people will remember this, because after the incident, the media published an open letter from Mattias to the perpetrators. He writes like this:.I will help your grandmother if she has a cardiac arrest and I will also help YOU if you go through the ice on a sunny day in March. Why are you doing this to me? I also have a family who wants to see me again, just like you! ..................................................... Unfortunately, events like this are now not uncommon. It is part of the bluelight staff's everyday lives to be attacked, attacked and threatened in the ministry, in the midst of their important jobs when they come out to save lives. The examples above refer to ambulance personnel and firemen who end up in the line of fire, but the testimony might as well have come from police officers who are also increasingly exposed to threats and violence. It can be anything from threatening words to obstruction of emergency and purely planned violence. Over the past year, I have had the opportunity to visit many parts of the country and have accompanied the police to form an idea of what their opportunities to work for this particular security look like. The last day before yesterday, I went with the Norrköping police and visited Klockaretorpet, where the police had a stone's throw. The first thing that hits me when we get there is how empty it is. There's hardly any people out there. Premises that have previously been shops or cafés seem empty and unused. Another thing I think about is how the flat roofs form tactical platforms for those who have evil intentions against someone below, such as the police. Anyone who gets up there can easily cause great damage with stones or other and quickly disappear from there without the police having a reasonable chance of getting hold of them. After a while, people start coming up. Young people in their 14s and 15s get close to us. They call, text and take a picture of us. Of course, it can be completely innocent and only an expression of curiosity, but more likely is that they report our presence to someone older, to a person who, for various reasons, does not want policemen nearby, someone who wants to be able to engage in criminal activities without being disturbed by the police forces. Many areas are often plagued by a criminal gang or several criminal gangs who consider themselves controlling the neighbourhood – and consider themselves entitled to it. It's gangs who claim to decide the rules and who has the right to what. It is a world outside the majority society, and it is a world outside the rule of law where people's security is constantly threatened. When I left with the police in Botkyrka outside Stockholm a few weeks ago, they told me about a serious violent crime that had taken place in broad daylight, in the middle of a square and where there should be at least 20 witnesses – but no one had seen anything. When the police talk about this, it is their consistent view that they understand that people act that way. You don't want to get involved, and you don't want to offend the wrong people. Even police officers, people who are normally equipped with a great legal patho, understand and admit that somehow it is reasonable and rational to turn your eyes in the other direction, not to risk all that can happen to you and those you care most about if you end up on edge with local violence capital. This, Mr President, is a development that must be broken inexorably. We cannot accept that parts of our country are being taken over by criminals, that people are being held in terror and do not dare to demand their right as it is formulated in law. We must take the necessary measures to ensure that the judicial system regains control where it has been lost and secures it where it is in danger. We must take the necessary measures to strengthen confidence in the rule of law and strive for everyone in our elongated country to feel that the rule of law is there for them, that we, the majority society, protect them when they are threatened, that those of us who do not accept the rule of law are on their side. When hard is put against hard, society must not bow down. We will stand firm against the victims. Together, we will fight one after one of the threats to security that affect people in what we call vulnerable areas. These are, of course, preventive measures, on the one hand, in contact-building activities where young people can face civil protection and the police and establish trust, and on the other hand in many other social measures where young people at risk of falling into crime are given special attention. In fact, it is also about how we plan our cities in practical terms. Sometimes it's easier than you think. An important part of this debate, which we could carry on indefinitely, is how exclusion can be broken. People have to be able to work. For people to be able to work requires a growing business community, i.e. companies in which values are created and who need to employ. Sweden must have a policy for growth and entrepreneurship for so many reasons. We need to implement the necessary reforms to make it easier to start up and grow businesses. We must ensure that the major Swedish success companies of the future can act in an international market and have the opportunity to recruit and develop talent.
i-2033913ddc33407a-73	Mr President, I would like to It is not culture, ethnicity and religion that create overcrowding, low levels of education and poverty. It's class. It is a word that the Alliance refuses to take in its mouth, but it is a word that is the most important component of today's debate. We are debating the suburbs today. It's the suburbs that so many debaters and politicians point to and say: Look, they're not like us, they don't talk like us, and besides, they're terribly violent. The suburbs are painted like something terrible and peripheral. The suburbs are used as a scarecrow to maintain cultural differences when it is really a matter of common class contempt. The suburbs are just a tram stop or a subway stop away – but not for the citizens. For the bourgeoisie, the suburbs are somewhere where you go with an Säpobil. The suburbs are somewhere where cars are burned and where it is a lawless country. For the Moderates, the suburb is a place where Swedish values do not exist. What do the Moderates mean by the Swedish values? Is it having two weeks' parental leave during the moose hunt? Is it getting drunk at the dance and hitting someone's mouth? Is it eating herring and potatoes in the Östermalm floor and then zero taxiing their million-dollar company? The Swedish values are a stick to what the Moderates consider to be etcetera, namely the suburbs. They are a stick to those who should not be included, to those who should be in the moderate alienation. They are the ones with a low level of education and low income. It's the working class. What is positive about today's debate is that we are highlighting the situation of the police today. We highlight the importance of a good working environment. We highlight the importance of a trade union commitment, of a good wage development, what it is like to work in a pressured authority. We highlight that the crime of violence against officials must be extended and include all blue light personnel. We highlight the success of the police's working methods, where the police repeatedly, from place to place, enter and interfere with the open drug trade. I'm afraid that's when cars burn. Unfortunately, that is when stones are thrown. It illustrates how incredibly good the police are at conducting dialogue and at knowing the place they work in. Successful work to interfere with drug trafficking, among other things, leads to totally unacceptable incidents when cars are on fire and when staff are being stoned. It is totally unacceptable, and it must be investigated and prosecuted. There's no excuse. But why is there a fire in the suburbs? It is partly about the good police work to interfere with criminal activities and partly about social vulnerability. It is not flaws in the criminal code that lead to social vulnerability. That's because welfare has left the suburbs. Society has left the suburbs. There are no social offices. There's no insurance fund. There's no library. This, together with a broken housing market, with a discriminatory labour market, makes the situation untenable among the tall houses and lush parks. Basically, it's about justice. It's about tax policy. It's about the distribution of money. The situation of suburbs today is a consequence of highly conscious policies.
i-2033913ddc33407a-84	Mr President, I would like to Liberals have for many years been paying attention to the issue of exclusion. I am extremely concerned when I hear Ibrahim Baylan, the Coordinating Minister, come up in the speaker's seat and talk about supporting civil society. It's important in itself, but we're talking about areas where the police can't enter. We're talking about stoning. We're talking about hand grenades against the police buses. It is not enough to talk about school outcomes and civil society. A year ago Gothenburg was hit by shootings, by severe violence. We called for increased police presence and increased penalties in arms legislation, but it was waved away by Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman – who unfortunately could not be present today. Malmö has suffered from systematic hand grenade incidents for several months, not least last autumn. In Sweden you can get a fine if you hold hand grenades. We want to classify hand grenades as weapons. We want prison sentences for possession of hand grenades. The police have reported the 53 most vulnerable areas. When we put questions to the government's responsible ministers, they talk about the 14 particularly vulnerable areas. What about the other vulnerable areas? They are also affected by crime and other forms of vandalism. They don't say anything about the government. I would also like to highlight those areas that are not on this list, Mr President. We must not forget these areas in Norrköping and elsewhere, which several colleagues have visited. They also need protection. They also need support. They also need police presence. Ibrahim Baylan said we're going to increase the police presence. Then tell me, Mr. Coordinator: how many district police officers are there today, one and a half years after the decision on a new police organisation came into force? The most important prevention, security, trust-building and relationship-building is a local police officer in the local community, out in the neighbourhoods. They're the cops who're meeting the recreation centres. They're the ones who're meeting the schools. They're the ones who're supposed to be moving out in the square. But they don't exist. That's why Swedish police are forced to go out reactively. That is why there is a lack of trust and trust in the judiciary. That's why many people think it's okay to attack these cars, ambulances or police cars, and throw stones or hand grenades. That is what the government obviously does not realise. When are these officers coming, Mr. Minister? And these conversations with bluelight personnel... I still want to know what they've resulted in. I guess they've been going on for a few months now. On the Liberal side, we want to tackle this in different ways. Punishment has been mentioned. We want to introduce a duty for municipalities to work preventively. It is not in the Local Government Act today. We in the Liberals' working group have also today put forward a proposal that all matters should be investigated. We want to lower the threshold for all crimes that, according to the Criminal Code, give at least six months in prison. They will be investigated by the police even if the perpetrator is under 15 years of age. Today, the limit is one year in prison. We in the Legal Policy Working Group have today proposed the introduction of a variant of youth service for non-criminals. It is not about putting 13- and 14-year-olds in prison; it is about ordering, forcing, social services and municipalities to take a much greater active initiative and responsibility to get these 13- and 14-year-olds away from the criminal gangs, from drug sales, from the stone-throwing and into active and systematic measures. I do not hear any of this in the speeches of the government parties or, for that matter, in the speech of the Left Party. We have also said that the consequences should be crystal clear no matter what age you have. For the younger adults aged 18 to 21 years, our working group proposes that the penalty discount should be reduced or completely removed after a relapse in crime, i.e. the second crime. These, Mr President, are some of the proposals we are making today in the area of law and order. We can talk about the labour market. We can talk school scores. We can talk civil society. But more is needed. I am from Västerås, where we have a vulnerable area that the Social Democrats have neglected for ten years. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. Don't write to the police and demand a local police officer and a local police office! What happened? Damage, alienation. Finally, that area ends up as cursed – excuse the expression, Mr President – on the list of vulnerable areas. It would not have had to do so if the municipality and the state had assumed their responsibilities through the police. A great many more measures are needed than those presented today by the Government. I hope there will be some, for so far there has been no news.
i-2033913ddc33407a-101	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to talk about the terrible attack yesterday on the British MEP, Jo Cox, who led to her death. The thoughts go to her relatives today, of course. We must never turn aside in the fight against the forces that want to strike at open and democratic society. Mr President, I would like to Last autumn Swedish Radio turned directly to the residents of Tensta in order to get their testimony about the spiral of violence. One mother stated that she can bear much, but she cannot bear the shootings — that a shot from a criminal settlement goes through her innocent neighbor's window. It made her think of Somalia and the war she had fled. We need social and non-profit involvement in the exclusion areas. The silent majority in these areas must be given the opportunity to build their own lives. Small entrepreneurs must be able to offer services and trade without being blackmailed. Women must be able to choose for themselves whether they want to wear a veil or not without risking harassment. The craftsman must be able to trust that his car is ready to take him to work even the next day. These people are the majority in our areas of exclusion, which we are discussing in today's debate, and in order for them to operate, order is needed. They need more police officers standing by their side defending and protecting our common values. Mr President, I would like to What, then, is the government's response to the valuation crisis that we see? What are the answers to the emergence of parallel societies where Swedish laws do not exist, the answers to the stone stones in the suburbs? The government says it does not accept this, but in its proposals it is passively faced with developments. The unwillingness to act overwhelms the flow of fine words. Both Stefan Löfven and Ibrahim Baylan are happy to talk about the construction of society, about investments. But they have forgotten the most important part of sustainable construction, namely a solid foundation. Without a solid foundation of values, the government's project will collapse as a cheat. Mr President, I would like to Just recently, a store in Borlänge was forced to close after the staff had stones thrown on them and car tires were cut. Cars were set on fire in Tjärna meadows in the same town. The rescue service was forced to turn around because of stunning youth gangs. The same night seven cars were set on fire in Klockar e croftet in Norrköping. There, too, the emergency services staff were attacked with a stone's throw. The week before, a female police officer was stabbed in connection with an emergency call in Borås. Then several policemen were attacked by a youth gang at the same time as a police car was vandalized. Two weeks ago I received a text from a police officer who I have met on several occasions and who works here in Stockholm. He wrote: Now it has happened again. That's the second time I've had Molotovs against me. Yesterday, someone was shot. That's enough now. Yes, Mr President, that is enough now. This isn't a boy's line. These are criminal gangs fighting with the police to gain control of residential areas. In the particularly vulnerable residential areas, the police find it difficult to maintain law and order. This negative spiral must be broken. There must be zero tolerance of riots and violence against police and other emergency personnel. Society must not fail the families living in these residential areas. Everyone in our country should be entitled to the same security and freedom. The Christian Democrats have put forward a number of proposals, and I will mention some of them now in my first intervention in this debate. We want to ensure continuous police presence in the most vulnerable areas. We want to significantly increase the number of police officers in external service. In our budget option, we have proposed 2,600 more police employees. There are 2 000 more police officers, 100 more police officers in the national intervention concept and 500 civilian workers to relieve and refine police duties. This could involve staffing arrest guards and reception and relieving investigation work or border controls, so that more police officers can work in external service. We also want to ensure that the police have the right skills, methods and equipment. The police must be given access to alternative weapons where the risk of fatality can be reduced. It can be about the possibility to use rubber balls and tasers and have access to water cannons during demonstrations and large riots. We want to give the police access to protected vehicles and the right protective equipment, and we want to tighten the penalties for violence or threats of violence against officials. It must be clearly stated in the Act that it covers all personnel working with emergency services, security and other important public services. We have proposed this, and we are doing this so that the valuation crisis that we see cannot be deepened and that the values that have built Sweden will continue to build Sver ige and all parts of Sweden. But that requires new solutions – Christian Democratic solutions and solutions that we have agreed with the Alliance – and not more of the policy of passivity. I now hope to hear more from Minister Baylan about the solutions that the government intends to propose to build Sweden stronger and to overcome the problems that we see.
i-2033913ddc33407a-117	Mr President, I would like to Although the tone is at times high, I understand from this debate today that there is broad consensus, which is to be welcomed, that this violence, which has been described both in the media and in this House, must stop. It is a very important task for us together to ensure that this happens. As I have said before, it is already a criminal offence to attack emergency services and ambulances. But we think, like many other parties, that it is reasonable to also review the penalties and see if further clarification can be made. But that's not enough. We must also ensure that those who commit these crimes can be prosecuted. It is not enough just for the punishments to be harsh. Mr President, I would like to Let me also clarify the government's policy on the important role of the police in these suburbs that we are discussing. The police will be strengthened. Much of the purpose of the new police organisation is precisely to bring resources closer to the citizens. Half of all police officers should be in local police areas. That is the very purpose. Yes, Roger Haddad, the police themselves have identified 14 particularly vulnerable areas that are now prioritised. That's good. Let the experts do it. We cannot, from this chamber, sit and control the police remotely. Then we'll make a big mistake. Listen to the police. They have already started work on adding district police to these neighbourhoods. I think that's good. It increases the presence, it increases confidence and it also increases the possibilities to prosecute crimes much more quickly. The government has also, although it may not sound like that when listening to the Alliance representatives, made sure that there are more police officers today than when you ruled. That's good, too. We are in talks with the bluelight staff, because we believe that the measures to be taken must be anchored with those on the ground and those who are experts in the field. If the interest is to remedy the problems that we see, we must listen to those who are experts. If the aim is instead to win short-term party political points, you can sit in your chamber and invent a lot of proposals. But from the government's perspective, it is important that we listen to those who are experts. I am also pleased that the Alliance is beginning to understand many of the measures that we are now taking and have taken in the 18 months that we have been in power. But one might wish that this insight had existed during the eight years that the Alliance actually ruled. Instead of giving priority to investment in the construction of society, in combating unemployment, in strengthening schools, in strengthening residential areas and in strengthening civil society, tax cuts were indeed a priority. As a result, the gaps in our society have increased. We know, not only from Sweden but internationally, that increased social gaps lead to increased crime and increased contradictions. That is why this government's priorities are different. We will continue to fight unemployment. We are proud that there are 110 000 more people going to work today compared to when we took over government power. But we are not satisfied, because work is the basis for self-confidence, for livelihood and for security. We will continue to strengthen residential areas and schools. We will fight the causes of this crime, but also crime itself. It is this policy that this government has been pursuing for 18 months, and we will continue to do so.
i-2033913ddc33407a-127	Mr President, I would like to Different figures have been used here today to describe the fact that integration has not worked well enough in our country. We should also remember that this was before the refugee crisis struck with full force. Many seem to see that development needs to change, and that is of course a good foundation to stand on. But the question also needs to be asked: does the government's policy really lead to more people being confident and optimistic about the future and to more people being able to get their first job? Unfortunately, I don't think so. The government's employment policy means increasing the contributions to those who still choose not to work. As a result, incentives to enter the labour market are being reduced and the thresholds for entry into the labour market are being raised. It is also a policy that is eagerly pursued by both the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, i.e. perhaps the main counter-poles of Swedish politics, but which surprisingly often agree with each other in this House. I must say to the Left that it is absolutely excellent that we want to combat drug trafficking. But the Left Party also wants to decriminalise drug use, which would fatten the drug trafficking which today is a major problem. I would like to ask the Swedish Democrats a question. When we already have so many people in these areas who are in exclusion today, how wise is it to distance ourselves from integration policies? How would this improve the situation in the vulnerable districts? We believe that this benefit policy would hit the people who are already a long way from the labour market at its worst. Similarly, it is a bad idea, Mr President, to make it more difficult and expensive for new companies to come forward. On the contrary, we believe that it must be easier and cheaper to hire. We want low taxes on low incomes, increased job incentives in support of livelihoods and what we call first job jobs, specifically aimed at people who are far from the labour market. There is also a clear political conflict in this context. I think many people remember what it sounded like ten years ago when the RUT jobs were presented by the Alliance government. No one would have to be humiliated by cleaning someone else's house. Back the band a few years back we had the same discussion when it was about turning burgers at McDonalds. It was a shitty job. That's what it sounded like. Today, McDonald's is probably Sweden's largest youth employer. Think about the following: Where else would these people be if they didn't have these jobs? How would they support themselves? What future would they have? What would they do? I do not know what it was like for everyone in this House. Perhaps it was that everyone got their dream job from day one, i.e. that you stepped out after the student and could only choose and choose among employment offers. But for the vast majority of us it was not so, but we had to start somewhere and work our way forward. Maybe not everyone gets their dream job right away. But how can you get your dream job if you never even get your first job? Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my introduction, we must ensure that security also exists in our most vulnerable neighbourhoods. In fact, we have fewer police officers today than in 2011; the increase in police ministers refers to civil servants in particular. At the same time, we have a growing population. The Moderates have proposed at least 2 000 more police officers. We have also put forward a number of sharp proposals. For example, the penalties for violence against civil servants should be tightened. More professions will be protected by the Code's rules on violence and threats against officials. Serious violations, such as spitting a cop in the face, are not acceptable. In that case, the victim must always be entitled to compensation for violations. Today, the government has the opportunity to present these proposals for more police officers and tighten penalties for attacks on blue-light personnel. The Moderates and the Alliance are behind them, but I note that the government has chosen not to do so. Now it's up to you, government!
i-2033913ddc33407a-140	Mr President, I would like to As I predicted in my first speech, there was quite a lot of snow mosh from the others. There are several parties here that go up in the speaker's chair and are very indignant about the state, for example the Center Party that does not want ID controls at borders and would like to have continued mass immigration. If you do not understand that this problem will hardly get any better if you have that policy, you will probably have to go back to the desk, if we say so. The Left Party may not even have to mention – they usually ride a bicycle – but Linda Snecker accused the Moderates of wanting to maintain cultural differences. It is quite interesting, for it has the Moderates in common with the Left Party. That is the whole point of multiculturalism, which the Left Party and the Moderates advocate. So you have that in common with each other; there is nothing that separates you. Linda Snecker mentioned rubber bullets and water cannons in a state of emergency. These are actually Swedish-democratic proposals, which I will come up with a little later. We tabled these proposals three years ago. Then the Christian Democrats have adopted them the other week, which is of course welcome, but we presented them three years ago. The Swedish Democrats made those proposals in 2013, and they will be needed. The Liberals also have a high tone. They're the ones who took out the emergency services, and now they want to reintegrate the emergency services. I wonder how it helped to remove the emergency services, which could be used to curb riots and ensure order in these areas. The Christian Democrats are talking about 2 000 more police officers, as many have done – even the Moderates. In the latest autumn budget proposals, i.e. the sharp draft budgets presented last autumn, the Christian Democrats put a total of SEK 35 million more to the judiciary but SEK 0 more to the Police Authority. Perhaps this was something they came up with recently, so we will see what they are putting in the autumn when the next sharp draft budget comes. At present, however, it looks quite empty on that front. The Moderates spent 50 million dollars on the Police Department. We spent 840 million and a total of almost 2 billion on the judiciary. The Center Party reduces the funding for the judiciary by SEK 15 million. The bets you stand here in the speaker's chair and play air guitar with is therefore not much to hang in the tree. It says a lot, but we look at the actual draft budgets last autumn – the sharp proposals that are made once a year – there is not much to hang from the tree. The attacks on bluelight personnel and riots in the suburbs are based on a Swedish hostility from the people in these areas – an hostility towards the country that once welcomed them. It is a Swedish hostility that makes them identify the public, such as the police, the fire department or other public institutions, as their enemies. Swedish hostility has existed in our country for a very long time, and it is increasing. It is a contempt for our society. What, then, is the answer so far, both from the former alliance government and the present government? Well, that's buying hot dogs and coffee. In Seved in Malmö, a district that has been taken over by gangs in various ways, the police drove sausage grating. There were also quite large headlines in the Swedish media the other week when the police offered coffee to those who laughed stood two meters away and threw stones at the police. In addition to the measures that we have proposed over the years and which I mentioned in my previous speech and also in this – as rubber bullets and so on – we need to address another problem, namely the problem of police management. So we have a police committee that does not dare to use the monopoly of violence it has, but instead is feeling sorry for criminals, as Dan Eliasson did tomorrow when he complained about the person who stabbed an innocent woman in the back. He was the one who received Dan Eliasson's sympathies, not the woman and her relatives. This is a major and growing problem within the Police Authority, and it needs to be addressed. We must have a police department that dares to do what it takes instead of offering coffee.
i-2033913ddc33407a-151	Mr President, I would like to The Government wants to build Sweden stronger through the sustainable construction of society. It is a community building that addresses the problems of vulnerability. We invest in jobs through educational contracts, additional welfare services, trainee jobs, extended adult education, fast track for new arrivals and validation so that people can get into society and start working faster. We invest in school by raising the status of the teaching profession and ensuring that there are more adults in the classrooms. Special schools receive the necessary support to reverse the results. We make a historic investment in increased housing construction to meet the housing shortage, and we invest in improved outdoor environments in socio-economically vulnerable areas. We invest in extra money for the welfare of the municipalities. These are just some of the reforms we make, and they are investments that strengthen Sweden in the long term. They create the conditions for increased participation and opportunities for everyone to contribute to the construction of society. It counteracts exclusion and makes Sweden stick together, and that's the only way we can reduce vulnerability in the long term. Increased security is also needed through the resources of law enforcement authorities, but also through measures such as better-informed squares and special efforts on violent women. If we are to make real changes, however, it is primarily about increasing labour force participation, improving schools and strengthening existing businesses, organisations and local initiatives and making important efforts in these areas. Only when we do that do we make people prouder of their place and the place they live, and so we can make the residents notice a medal. In 2013, the Swedish Enterprise and Industry founded the Reform Institute with a report on immigration and social problems. It was noted that the so-called integration problems usually associated with immigrant-tight places are at least as common in towns with very few immigrants. Of the five worst places in the index, four are exceptionally few in terms of education, unemployment, health, money and other exclusion factors. The 20 worst places in the index had fewer immigrants than the average. For example, the report addresses Munkfors, where 35% of young people are unemployed. In Töreboda, 21 percent of the population have orders for payment from the bailiff, and in Ragunda, as little as one in five adults of working age is working or studying. If we focus only on what distinguishes so-called vulnerable districts from the majority society, we are failing all the young people who are unemployed in Bräcke, Storfors or Överkalix, the 44 percent who have dropped out of high school in Essunga or the 15 percent who are pre-retired in Söderhamn. We must work towards prejudice and stigmatisation and to create confidence in the future and cohesion throughout Sweden.
i-2033913ddc33407a-158	Mr President, I would like to In politics, as in so many other areas, it is an advantage if we can hold two balls in the air at the same time. The challenges and problems facing exclusion areas must be countered in both the long and short term. Here and now it is about ensuring the safety of the residents. Everyone in the vast majority who wants and deserves to live a good life and watch their children grow up with faith in the future and good chances of realising their dreams deserves the protection of society against those individuals who increasingly gather in criminal networks that threaten, destroy and create insecurity. It is also about securing the most basic of the security that everyone in a functioning society should have the right to, namely that we get help when we call 112 and that emergency services can assist us when it is really needed – without being hindered or risking their own lives. The Center Party is proposing a new crime rubrication, violence against alarm service workers, where firefighters and ambulance personnel are given the same legal status as police officers. The offence shall give the same sentence periods as violence or threats against an official, i.e. imprisonment for a maximum of four years or, in the case of minor offences, a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of six months. The Baylan Government states that it is already illegal to prevent an emergency. But it is a rather weak criminalisation; it is regulated only in the Traffic Regulation. The Center Party wants it to be brought into the penal code. By now, it should also be widely known that the Center Party sees the need for greater security throughout the country and that the police must have a reasonable opportunity to do a good job. I would therefore like to remind you of the purely tight budgetary need, because it is necessary to secure the important activities of the police. We see this need and have announced an investment of 2.4 billion over four years in our budget exercise to strengthen the police in numbers, as well as in individual initiatives to improve skills in different areas. It is about giving the police good tools to work with and giving them the time and opportunity to establish skills, knowledge and experiences that make them more secure in their professional role. Continuity and long-termness must be ensured, not least with regard to the confidence in the agency's key area police. In fact, this must also be reflected in the pay envelopes of the police. To curb the violence against the everyday heroes who pull out to save lives, we need to act on several levels. More severe penalties will not suffice. Social measures are at least as important. One example is the Human Behind the Uniform project, MBU. It is a dialogue project that is certainly rejected by those who only look at the hard line. This is a dialogue project in which young people in the suburbs get to know police, firefighters and ambulance nurses and try their jobs. The aim is to turn suspicion and antipathy into curiosity and understanding. The evaluation has shown that this works. It works, dear friends! In order to spread knowledge about the vulnerable situation of blue light personnel and also to gather experiences, the Center Party recently launched the blue light call. One can take a stand and contribute to this formation of opinion. Anyone interested in it can access the Center Party website and get more information. Thousands of people have already signed the blue light call, but more voices are needed. The more we are who demand strong legal protection for firefighters and ambulance staff, the more chance the government actually listens and acts. Mr President, I would like to I happen to know that a number of firefighters and other blue-light workers are watching this debate on television. They've been in touch with us. I would like to extend my warm thanks to them. They are doing an amazing job that is infinitely important, and they deserve our support and respect. Thank you very much.
i-2033913ddc33407a-169	Mr President, I would like to Did you see the film The Alliance goes to the suburbs? It went a few weeks ago, and it was the Alliance's party leader who used Husby as a film ball. The requisition they brought was the extra-reinforced safety car. They also had suggestions for water cannons, rubber bullets and harsher penalties. But the extras had forgotten, and no Husbybo was in sight. The visitors were at the heart of Danderyd, Täby and Östermalm. The Alliance only visits the suburbs when there has been a disaster. It is so clear that we are doing something and that we are doing it – we are not doing it and those who are doing it. But there's no such thing as us and them. There is only one of us, and it is based on class and is created by the bourgeoisie. I know that the Alliance is terribly tired of hearing the Left Party talk about tax cuts, but if you have reduced the tax by 180 billion over eight years, that affects the suburbs. It affects Täby a little less and Husby much more. The Alliance shows an extreme tone deafness – a tone deafness to the police's working methods, a tone deafness to what crime prevention is and a tone deafness to the importance of long-termness. Of the proposals presented, there are very few preventive proposals for crime. Well, there's one, about several cops. There's the Alliance fighting about whether there'll be 2,000 or 2,400 more cops. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But what the police are also asking for is a better computer system to be able to write their event reports, and it is a wage development. There's the Alliance empty-handed. The Alliance's policy is based on emotional reactions, on what feels good. And it feels good with longer sentences, it feels good with more weapons and it feels good to be grounded. But what this is, it's a Donald Trump policy that sounds good on TV. We live in symbolic politics, and it is so evident when five minutes on the News becomes more important than crime prevention, regulation letters and ministry memos.
i-2033913ddc33407a-176	Mr President, I would like to I regret that Linda Snecker of the Left Party does not use her four minutes to tell us what the Left Party wants. I believe that many of those who follow this debate today, as we have requested, also want to know what the government support party wants, but unfortunately they do not know. Furthermore, Mr President, I do not think that I should be put on board by the Alliance which has not been presented or supported by the Liberals. Linda Snecker may, in fact, turn to the party that has tabled the proposals. I thought, Ibrahim Baylan, with all due respect for the new mission, that I would receive a concrete action plan from the responsible government minister for the affected areas, because this debate was announced several weeks ago. Ibrahim Baylan says it is a broad consensus. About what? I'm not going to buy the pig in the bag, but I want to know first how it is with the district police and how many more district policemen Baylan wants to bet on. Then I will have to read a sentence from the police department's decision that at least 50% of the regional resources should belong to the local police area. But that does not mean that the money is being spent on more police locally on external service. Furthermore, when we have travelled around to all the police regions, we have been told on a regular basis in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs that it is quite a numerical trick with how to report the so-called district police. In the entire county of Dalarna – for example, I visited Borlänge three weeks ago – you have two district police officers, and it is in Borlänge municipality. How does the government feel about the Liberals' proposal on youth services as an alternative for those who can be under 15 years of age and are not punishable? Is that something you accept? How do you feel about our proposal for a penalty discount for those aged 18 to 21? What do you think of the emergency services, which we have repeatedly mentioned here and which we have also asked the government over the last six months to reinstate? What does the Swedish government really want? Maria Ferm, coalition partner in the government, says that resources must be available for prosecutors and police to prosecute. And Baylan here calls for more to be prosecuted. But if there are no basic resources in these areas, you cannot prosecute, Mr. Minister. Then the criminal gangs, those who walk around selling illegal weapons and drugs outside the schools, will not be able to be punished. The Government also says that we should not make our own interpretation, but we should listen to the expert authorities. That is exactly what the Liberals have done. We're talking about the 53 exposed areas. What we are asking is why there is a focus only on the 14 particularly vulnerable areas. There are more than 30 other vulnerable areas. I also mentioned the third category, which I call bubblers, such as Klockaretorpet and some other places that are not on the official list. They should also feel safe. They should also feel support. The Liberals already wrote on 11 February in an article on attacks on bluelight personnel that ambulances should be equipped with cameras, that support to the police should be tightened, that sabotage of police cars should be criminalised and so on. Ibrahim Baylan says we're in agreement and he's gonna do something about it. Now, Mr. Minister, when you have four minutes left, tell me what you're going to do about it!
i-2033913ddc33407a-186	Mr President, I would like to There have been some issues in the debate. Our police initiative can be read about in the spring session. It shows how we fund more police officers, more civilian workers and a strong anti-terrorist package. A tip is therefore to read the Christian Democrats' Spring Movement. We are also in favour of a more efficient computer system. That's what we've been exercising about. I say this to the Left Party in particular. It is absolutely important that the police have the right tools and resources to do a good job, and it obviously includes an effective and good debriefing system. Today's debriefing system has a font that is from the year I was born, 1987, so it is clear that there is great development potential, as the Christian Democrats have also exercised about. As early as 2001, we proposed less deadly weapons to the police such as water cannons and rubber bullets, so nothing new came a few weeks ago. This, of course, should not replace dialogue. The Christian Democrats' proposal on rubber bullets, tasers and water cannons is about the police having more resources that are less lethal. What the Left Party and even the government are doing, unless they are for less deadly weapons, is handing the police over to sharp-charged guns. They may then be faced with the situation that we have read about where a police officer in an alien area wrote: Yesterday, someone was almost shot. When you don't have less deadly weapons, the police are directed to sharp-charged guns. How can the Left Party be against less deadly weapons? I would like an answer to that. This should not, of course, be put against school initiatives and efforts to get more people into work. Good schools are A and O to create the conditions for good development. Today, quality is often too bad, and it does not accept the Christian Democrats. We need to reduce the size of the classes. We must get the best and most motivated teachers to work in schools with major challenges. It should also be marked in the pay envelope. We want contacts between parents and schools to be strengthened. A safe and calm school environment is a prerequisite for learning. In all too many schools, the everyday life is marked by strife and anxiety, and it is above all the weak students, if I may use that expression, who are affected. The Christian Democrats want to have a better sense of peace in school by clarifying teachers' powers and by increasing the follow-up to pupils' behaviour. Work is also important to break the exclusion. In the areas we are talking about, unemployment is generally higher than in the rest of Sweden, and that is unacceptable. The big difference is whether you are born in Sweden or not. Among natives, unemployment was 4.7 per cent in April; for foreign born children the corresponding figure was 14.9 per cent. In Malmö, for example, as many as 64 per cent of the refugees who arrived in Sweden ten years ago were still unemployed. It's a huge problem. Loss of work is devastating. More efforts are needed in order for people to get to work. The Christian Democrats, for example, have proposals for introductory positions so that companies can hire more. Stefan Löfven and the government talk about simple jobs. According to the proposal, this is about copying jobs in the public sector. Instead, we want to ensure that companies have the opportunity to employ more.
i-2033913ddc33407a-200	Mr President, I would like to I grew up in one of the suburbs we're discussing. At the beginning of the 90s, the situation was quite similar today. There was increased unemployment, increased divides and increased crime, and there was a xenophobic party in parliament that was inciting people because of ethnicity. They were turned around, and it is also possible to turn around today through purposeful work. There's no alexander. The Moderates are right that it is a choice to make. There is a clear conflict here. If we continue with the eight-year tax cuts, with the consequent increase in disparities, it will be very difficult to reverse this. Or should you choose the path that the government has taken, to strengthen the police, to review the penalties and to combat unemployment? Unemployment is moving in the right direction. Youth unemployment is falling rapidly. We're proud of it, but we're not happy. That's a good basic condition. It is a matter of prioritising resources for schools. You do not start throwing stones from day one, but often there has been a failure for a long time. The hopelessness that has gripped people must be combated by strengthening schools and giving a positive way forward. It is about renovating these areas so that the residents feel that there is a presence and that they are part of society. Basically, it's not about us and them. Basically, it is not about different parts of Sweden. Together we are Sweden. That's why it's important which way we choose. As far as the government is concerned, it is clear that it is time to close the gap. It is time to prioritise the construction of society over tax cuts.
i-2033913ddc33407a-207	Mr President, I would like to As I have said in my two previous speeches, the most important thing we can do here and now is to restore the security of the vulnerable neighbourhoods. From a moderate point of view, we have proposed an additional 2,000 police officers. We have also proposed more stringent sanctions for attacks on blue-light personnel. In Moderate Sweden, all people should be able to feel safe, even those who come out to save the lives of someone else or to restore security in these areas. I would like to take this opportunity to express my greatest respect for all those women and men who work daily to do just that. The Moderates have put forward a number of sharp proposals in this area. In this debate, I have not yet heard what the government's position on this matter is. Has anyone in this House or among you who follows the debate heard any concrete proposals from the government about what they want to do here and now to restore security in these areas? I only hear vague wordings about better schools and all that. Absolutely! But the difficulty is not to tell about what Sweden you want. The difficulty is to tell you how to get there. This calls for concrete policy initiatives. My appeal to Minister Baylan in his new role is: Drop the prestige! There are concrete and good proposals. Execute them! It's a matter of urgency. I think we need a debate on Swedish values. I expressed this in my first speech. They are an important part of the Moderate plan for a stronger Sweden where all people should be able to feel safe, no matter who they are, where they come from or where they live.
i-2033913ddc33407a-212	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Alliance's criticism of the government in this debate. We have only received fuzzy answers from the government, and I think it stems from the fact that you do not have many answers. Ibrahim Baylan said it was possible to reverse the development that he referred to, which was the year it was – it should be in the 90's. There is no development that has turned around in this country. It has only become worse ever since the era of mass immigration began. There's nothing going in the right direction. In fact, no one in this debate except the Swedish Democrats has mentioned the crux of the matter: immigration. This unfortunately says a lot about the insight of the other parties about what the problem is based on. The Moderates talked a little bit about entrepreneurial politics. They call us left, and the Left calls us right. That's what it usually sounds like, but the fact is that SD's entrepreneurial policy is pretty strong in this country. On the foregoers.se recently we even beat the Moderates in confidence. It is not surprising, because we want to loosen up the LAS and make it easier for small businesses, for example by removing sickness pay and much more. Today we hear in the debate that both the Christian Democrats and the Center Party see the budgetary needs of the police. It's welcome. As we usually say, welcome to reality! Six months ago, you didn't see that need. Then the Center Party cut down on the judiciary, and the Christian Democrats gave in principle nothing more. But it is good that you have come to this realization. The Center Party is talking about a new dialogue project that they have come up with, a new fun integration project with sausage grating. Let's assume it lands in something. The Liberals are talking about a penalty discount and emergency services. Why didn't you listen to us when we wanted to keep the emergency services or when we wanted to remove the penalty discount all these years? You should have listened by then, you wouldn't have done it now. KD refers to its spring exercise. We shall see what will happen to their police efforts in the autumn budget, when the sharp proposal comes. They mentioned that they have been pushing the issue of rubber bullets since 2001, but they did not do so when they were in government.
i-2033913ddc33407a-219	Mr President, I would like to I would like to devote my last speech to highlighting an area and a problem which is everywhere in our society but which often affects people who in one way or another deviate from the norm. It is a limiting force that holds people back in their quest to be part of society, contribute and realize their dreams. It is something that gives rise to a great feeling of injustice on the part of the victim, and it has enormous consequences for individuals and society. Discrimination, racism and xenophobia are problems that limit the individual and consolidate inequalities in society. Anyone who cannot get a home or not even be called for a job interview because they have a last name from another continent loses faith in the future and trust in society. If we are to combat the vulnerability that many people have talked about here today, we must combat discrimination. I am therefore pleased that the government is taking an active approach to this issue through concrete efforts to combat racism and discrimination. These include increased resources for the Ombudsman for Discrimination, the development of an action plan against racism and hate crime, and an emphasis on culture and a strengthened civil society. These are important initiatives for a Sweden that stays together. It is only by sticking together that we can reduce vulnerability. Several sensible and constructive proposals have been made on how to take further action to ensure that the police can work in a workable way. We need to ensure that the police have sufficient resources and the right working methods and that sanctions are effective. Finally, I would like to thank the Liberals who have initiated this important debate. Many thanks to all parties who have participated!
i-2033913ddc33407a-224	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes when people want to be a little mean, they say that we politicians spend a lot of time looking for problems for our solutions instead of solutions to our problems. That's the way things are going to be here today. It is equally amusing and distressing to see how both extreme parliamentary parties are trying to take advantage of the serious situation that has arisen to pursue their usual agenda. For the Swedish Democrats, immigration and immigrants are always the problem. It doesn't matter how few or how many we have or what nationality they cause trouble – it's always the immigrants' fault, we know that. If you think so – fine, then you have to do it – but you have to understand that it's not really that way in the real world. The Left Party paints a picture of an entire army of straw men on the bourgeois side and that we march to our herring tables and oppress the proletariat with life and lust. If you think so, there are no logical arguments, but I can only appeal to people's reason. I grew up myself and live in the suburbs, and I cannot recognize myself in the picture that Linda Snecker paints. I am concerned about some of what the government parties are expressing. Of course, it is words that are both big and fine. But it is just words, and words weigh lightly, Mr President. The lack of concreteness is worrying. There is an American saying that I think is good: Put your money where your mouth is! You might think that in this – it's actually worth investing something in real. The only security effort that the government has announced in the spring change budget is to allocate a number of millions in compensation to the police to take personnel from all over the country to check the Öresund commuter's ID. I don't know if I think it's a sensible priority. The whole Alliance sees the need for more policemen, but I think we in the Center Party are going the furthest way with our investment of 2.4 billion. With this, I would like to thank the Liberals for the initiative for this debate.
i-2033913ddc33407a-231	Mr President, I would like to What are we gonna do? What does the Left Party want? The Left Party wants the whole of Sweden to live, from country to suburb. We want more resources for welfare and more left-wing billions, and we want to build housing, improve school and so top profits in welfare. We want fewer tax evaders and less job tax deductions. We want the police to be everyone's police, work security and have a high level of trust. We want the bluelight staff to be in the suburbs even when disasters do not happen; they should be there to engage in dialogue. We want social action groups, we want a living community life and we want committed parents who are out in society. We want to create and maintain all the good work that all municipalities throughout Sweden do every day and that is crime prevention, which is long-term and actually works for real. The Liberals, who wanted this debate, presented some proposals today on SVT, but none of the proposals are crime prevention. When SVT talked to the population of Järva, they did not believe the Liberals' proposals. They pointed out that young people cannot be locked up. We need to have a long-term perspective. No one becomes less criminal because they end up within the framework of the Prison Service at an early age. Sounding tough isn't the most important thing here and now. The Left Party wants a well-being that can be trusted and a secure labour market for all bluelight personnel. We only come there with broad stakes and with long-term perspective.
i-2033913ddc33407a-236	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals have not proposed that 13 to 14-year-olds fall within the walls of the Prison Service, but it is the social services that, together with the police, will investigate all serious crimes, including those that normally give in one year's imprisonment. It is social services that should look after these young people. You call it punishment, we call it prevention. They're not supposed to be outside the school selling drugs. They should not be exploited and abused because of their low age because it is known that if they carry a weapon or are drug couriers, the judiciary, because of their age, will not punish them. We must tackle this. The Left Party says they want social groups and so on. It already exists, and we have encouraged more preventive social groups in our package today. We have also entered, once again, that the municipalities should have an obligation under the Municipal Act to work crime prevention, because they have a central infrastructure locally that the Swedish police cannot get near. If you do not take that approach or take that responsibility, the police are sometimes forced – in Tjärna Ängar and other areas where I have met them – to perform non-police tasks. But the police are forced to be out there, and we want them to be out there working crime prevention and actually arresting those who engage in crime. But they can't do it. Those who have followed this debate and together with me had hoped to receive information about youth service, penalty rebates, more district police officers and how we will punish those who attack ambulances, fire brigades and police cars did not get a single message from the Swedish government. I would like to thank those who have taken part in this debate, and I promise the Minister that we will continue to hunt him down.
i-2033913ddc33407a-242	Mr President, I would like to A policy is needed for more jobs and confidence in the future, and more police are needed to provide security to the quiet majority in the exclusion areas. For them to be able to operate, we need order and policemen who stand by them. Today we have heard many proposals from not least the politicians of the Alliance. I also note that Maria Ferm of the Green Party welcomes several of the proposals. It is the Social Democrats and the Green Party that are in government, and I expect that this debate will take with it the good proposals that have come and make something of them. I asked the Left Party how one can be against the police getting less deadly weapons instead of having only sharp-loaded guns in the tough situations that arise with, for example, stone-throwing people in the alienation areas. I mentioned an example here in the debate with a police officer who for the second time had been exposed to Molotov cocktails. The representative of the Left Party in the debate did not answer my question. Mr President, I would like to We must not allow hopelessness to grow or insecurity to bite. We must conduct a policy that encourages good values and stems from what makes Sweden strong – values such as freedom, equality, own responsibility and humanity. These are the things that build Sweden strong, not the government's passive policy. Just as with all the constructions, as I said in my opening speech, Sweden is being built strongly with a solid and stable foundation of values. I had hoped for more in today's debate, but let us hope that the government will come back with concrete proposals so that together we can get the problems and challenges that we see right so that we can reverse developments. Thank you for today's debate and thank you to all of you who are working on this: police, ambulance and emergency services.
i-2033913ddc33407a-248	Mr President, I would like to It is of the nature of the matter to argue in this House, with written speeches, that the government does not make proposals and that it itself has the solution to all questions. Moreover, I was now told that as a minister I will be hunted. I can assure the Liberals and the Alliance that you won't have to hunt for very long. We are always available to find good solutions and collaborations to solve complex challenges. These are complex challenges; they can be solved. During the 20 months that we have been in power, the government has delivered over 65 bills from the Ministry of Justice with concrete proposals to this Parliament. We have delivered budgets that strengthen welfare by 10 billion and school by 8 billion. We are strengthening the police with resources to get more police officers and for the police to be present in these suburbs. We are also prepared, in talks and cooperation with the opposition, to review the penalties, because that is important. In the short term, it is important to prosecute those who engage in this and, in the long term, to remove the causes that lead young people into this crime and this hopelessness that Andreas Carlson so graphicly and well described. This is a joint responsibility. I think that we are all basically concerned that blue-light personnel – police, rescue services and ambulances – must have the opportunity to do their job, both for their own safety and for the people who need this public service. For this we all have a responsibility. We in the government are prepared to assume our responsibilities, and we are prepared to hold talks and find cross-block agreements in this area too in order to achieve better development than we have today.
i-2033913ddc33407a-257	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Maria Weimer has asked the Minister for Defence what he thinks about the planned expansion of Nordstream 2 and the link with Swedish and European security policy and how he will act within the EU to draw the attention of the European Commission and important countries such as Germany to the problem of dependence on Russian gas at this sensitive stage of security policy. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government considers that Nordstream 2 must comply with EU law and respect the objectives of the Energy Union and therefore welcomes the Commission's examination of the project in these respects. The Government takes note of the concerns expressed by several Baltic and Central European countries about the impact on security of supply, security and EU energy policy that Nordstream 2 may have. Ukraine's vulnerability is an important issue in this context. If Nordstream 2 applies for the government's permission for the extension of a new pipeline in the Swedish Economic Zone, the application will be carefully examined in accordance with Swedish and international law. I would like to remind you that both the EU and Sweden are bound by the obligations arising from international law, in particular the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (Unclo), which for the Swedish part is primarily reflected in the Act on the Continental Shelf. Respect for international law is a cornerstone of the protection of Sweden's central security policy interests.
i-2033913ddc33407a-261	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. After all, I had asked Mr Hultqvist the question and had thought that we should discuss the defence and security aspects of Nordstream 2. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also be able to discuss these aspects of the issue. In many areas there are concerns about the plans to build this other pipeline. There are concerns in the area of energy policy, as the Minister was concerned about, and I will discuss the climate aspect of this issue with Minister Lövin later today. However, I believe that the most important starting point is to look at the state of security policy. I think we can agree that today we have a completely different security policy situation from what we had in 2009 when the first gas pipeline was planned and approved. We still have ongoing battles in eastern Ukraine, Crimea is still occupied and we see ongoing and increasing violations of Swedish airspace and territory. I believe that the government here has a great responsibility to ensure that the review of the other gas pipeline turns all the stones and that the security policy aspects are really taken care of when the government assesses this issue. I hope and believe that we can also agree that the plans for Nordstream 2 are much more than an infrastructure project, as it is well stated, including from the German side. This project has clear safety policy links, given the security situation around the Baltic Sea that we are in today. But we also know that Russia uses gas supplies and energy policy for clear political and military purposes. Some ten years ago, Ukraine was under political pressure. They wanted to move closer to the EU. Then gas supplies were shut down. Parts of the EU were also seriously affected by that crisis. The interpellation response states that Nordstream 2 will comply with EU law and the objectives of the Energy Union and that the government welcomes the Commission's review. I welcome that. However, it is clear from many aspects that this pipeline is in breach of the objectives of the Energy Union to diversify the gas market. It also violates many of the political conclusions and decisions endorsed by both the Foreign Ministers and the Heads of State of the European Union. There is therefore an uprising among Baltic and Central European countries. They are very strongly critical of the plans to build a second gas pipeline. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Foreign Affairs states that the Government takes note of the concerns that exist among other EU countries. But my question in the interpellation to Mr Hultqvist was and is now to Mrs Wallström: how will the government act? Given the serious security policy situation we have and the opinion that we know exists in Europe against this project, I expect something more from the government than to sit with your hands crossed waiting for the Commission's review. Is the government prepared to act actively on this issue? Is the government, for example, prepared to join the letter that ten countries have written to the Commission, expressing great concern about the project?
i-2033913ddc33407a-269	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the interpeller for highlighting this issue. We have a deteriorating security policy situation in Europe and in our neighbourhood. Russia's actions pose a threat to the European security regime. A rift against Ukraine violates international law. The Russian leadership has so far shown that they are prepared to use military capabilities and economic powers as well as propaganda to achieve their political goals. I would like to emphasise that Sweden is one of the Member States of the European Union that is most clearly pushing that these insights must guide the EU's action against Russia in general. We do so together with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours, as well as with other Member States, not least the UK. That is one of several reasons why we believe it is important for Britain to remain in the European Union. As far as the EU sanctions against Russia are concerned, they are not directly dependent on the energy policy relationship but are rooted in the Russian aggression against Ukraine. Nevertheless, there are links to the energy sector. There are measures aimed at exports from the EU of key strategic technologies relevant to Arctic extraction, deep-sea extraction and shale oil extraction. Also on the list of sanctions are energy-related Russian banks, as well as the financing of certain Russian oil companies. On the other hand, sanctions are not directed directly at Russia's energy exports to the EU. Given that it is important to maintain the EU consensus on EU sanctions against Russia, it is probably not realistic to try to impose sanctions on these exports. We are in favour of extending the existing sanctions by six months. I just want to make the picture clear of what it looks like. It goes without saying that this also has a security policy aspect. The answer to the question of how to deal with it is that we should cooperate – as we do – with the other EU countries. These contacts are currently taking place to ensure that we can deal with this in a reasonably coordinated and consistent way in the future.
i-2033913ddc33407a-275	Mr President, I would like to I believe, as I said, that most of us share the picture that the Foreign Minister paints of the situation and of how the EU should act with the sanctions that exist against Russia. The point of my interpellation, however, is that the consequences of this gas pipeline are so serious that the government must act differently from the usual cooperation in the EU circle. Since it is Mrs Wallström who is now answering the question and not Mr Hultqvist, I intend to raise a more foreign policy aspect. This applies to Ukraine, which will also suffer serious consequences if the gas pipeline is established. I know that the government and the Foreign Minister are involved in Ukraine. It was one of the Foreign Minister's first destinations when she took up her post. It also promises to continue with the Eastern Partnership and the initiatives taken by the Alliance Government with regard to the engagement of countries around Ukraine. We know that Ukraine's economy is weak. It is struggling with the necessary reforms that need to be implemented. You fight against corruption. We also know that there is a gas pipeline today that runs through Ukraine. The transit fee paid to the Ukrainian government is an important income. When Nordstream 2 is built, this pipeline will become redundant. As a result, Ukraine is losing the necessary income. The economy that is already severely affected will be further weakened by the loss of these transit charges. I assume that it is not the Foreign Minister's intention to put aside the bones of the already weak Ukrainian economy. My specific question is: how do you intend to act specifically on Ukraine's interests in this matter, and on the vulnerable situation in which it finds itself? Will it be ensured that Ukraine does not lose transit charges from the gas pipelines?
i-2033913ddc33407a-282	Mr President, I would like to It is true that Ukraine would be affected. It would be a very large and important economic setback. It is therefore valuable and essential that we keep in touch with Ukraine, and we are constantly discussing their economy and their views on this particular project. At present, the Government has not received an application for authorisation for the extension of a new pipeline in the Swedish Economic Zone. If or when it comes, we must examine it in accordance with Swedish and international law. What we can do for the time being is to have political contacts, to understand and embrace the idea that this will affect us, not only in terms of energy policy but also in terms of security policy and military policy. That is why we have to deal with it by working with those countries that are directly affected, but also with countries such as Ukraine, in order to be able to make an overall assessment. That work is in full swing right now. So we are well prepared. We also have Nordic neighbours who will be affected. It is important to maintain that contact. That is what we can do at present. This also includes, of course, that we should try to make an overall assessment of the project, preferably on the part of the whole of the European Union. That would be ideal. Germany has a special interest and role, which is not quite simple. As I said, we have not received any applications so far, nor do we have this as a concrete matter. It has so far to be discussed in various cooperation forums.
i-2033913ddc33407a-287	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that the Foreign Minister describes the serious consequences of this gas pipeline and that the government seems to be watching it. However, I believe that there are several measures that the government could take pending the Commission's review. This could be helped by raising the issue yourself at foreign ministers' meetings in the EU community. This issue could be raised again at European Councils where it has already been part of various conclusions. One could join the ten Member States which have already taken a clear position and which have expressed concern about the gas pipeline. It could also be ensured that the review carried out by the Commission also has a clear security policy dimension. This is an aspect that I do not know was included in the previous review, before the first gas pipeline. This is an important aspect that can be ensured in the review. Of course, it will also affect the final outcome. I believe that the government can turn a few more stones around and do more while awaiting the Commission's review.
i-2033913ddc33407a-291	Mr President, I would like to The review also covers, of course, the security and defence policy aspects. That is how we must prepare ourselves, very carefully and together with other countries. Before we are prepared to put it on, for example, the FAC agenda, we should also consider what final result we want to achieve. We should consider this very carefully so that we do not have a setback in, for example, FAC discussions. It is therefore important simply to ensure that we have good contacts between the countries that influence, so that we prepare properly in the European context and that we follow this issue very closely. That work is under way, and I will also ensure that we keep the opposition parties well informed about the process in the future. We will come back shortly with timetables and other things for dealing with this issue.
i-2033913ddc33407a-294	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me what further measures I and the government intend to take to counter exclusion. Too many people live in vulnerable conditions, lack their own livelihood or have an uncertain housing market position, resulting in limited living space. The government's employment policy is based on people's desire for work and development. Work means opportunities for self-sufficiency, community, belonging and the power to shape one's life and future. Therefore, the government's top priority is that more people should get to work. It is crucial to keep Sweden together. A country with high employment rates, high participation rates and low unemployment is becoming richer, safer and more transparent. The Government's goal that the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy should increase so that Sweden reaches the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020 – is a steering year for the entire government's work. The demand for labour is now strong and employment is increasing at a good pace. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 113 000 people. More than half are women. More than half of them are born abroad. At the same time, unemployment is clearly decreasing, not least among young people. Long-term unemployment is also falling after having stuck to very high levels in recent years. The good development of the labour market is thus broad and affects several groups. At the same time, millions of people are fleeing war in the world. In 2015, 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden. It is the highest number of asylum seekers that an OECD country has ever received in one year. Of course, population growth leads to short-term growth pain, but if we are able to lift our eyes, it is a much-needed addition of individuals who meet a demographic need that in the longer term will mean more employed and stronger economic development. Work is the key to the establishment of new arrivals in Sweden. Work provides opportunities to develop in the Swedish language, to gain knowledge of Swedish society and to gain new acquaintances. Sweden needs to take advantage of the expertise of all individuals, whether acquired here or in any other part of the world. Therefore, the ambition must remain that new arrivals will come to work or studies within two years. However, it also takes time for newcomers to enter the labour market, which can initially be expected to lead to higher unemployment. The government intends to come back with proposals for further measures for higher employment and sustainable lower unemployment in future budget proposals.
i-4zQgDYc7T2Mu9tK4ZBgrp1	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Trade, for your answer! The starting point for my interpellation is that the government in its own budget bill writes that exclusion will increase by 2020 and then is estimated to amount to 1 million people. But it is also about the fact that we are now in the middle of this parliamentary term, like this in European Championships. In half it is always good to look back at the first part and see what has happened. As Ylva Johansson quite rightly says, a lot of people in Sweden are doing well right now. The economy is booming, as is expected, and a lot of people are coming to work. That's how it's supposed to be in a boom. However, what concerns me is that, despite the fact that the economy is now booming, many people find it difficult to enter the labour market. The foreign born are now in the majority at Arbetsförmedlingen, despite the fact that the vast majority of the people who came here last year have not received a residence permit. They are therefore not included in the statistics either. There are many ways of doing very well, both in terms of the economy and in terms of reducing unemployment. But there are also great clouds of concern that I feel this government is not taking seriously at all. On the contrary, I often hear that many different ministers – including the Minister for Labour – are quite satisfied with the situation we have. This in half is the most serious thing. What Sweden needs for the second half, in the coming years, are strong reforms, reforms that allow more people to get the first job, reforms that make it better to move from exclusion to work, reforms that make more people employ themselves. We should increase the demands on those who are new arrivals today or those who are currently living on supply from the common. It will be necessary if we are to meet the very big challenge that we are facing. I have to say that in half this troubles me that the government does not seem to see the great alienation that is emerging. If you do not see that the labour market changes and that the composition of those who are outside also changes, then you risk doing completely the wrong things, or that you do nothing at all. If you don't see any problems, nothing needs to change. It worries me most of all right now. So I was going to give the Minister for Labour a chance by answering the question: Does the Minister for Labour see around the corner? Does the Minister of Labour see that there are now people who find it very difficult to enter the labour market, even though it is booming? That group is in danger of getting even bigger when so many people have gone to Sweden and when we do not see any rescheduling of politics. The Minister for Labour often talks about a rescheduling. But the only change that I see is that it becomes less profitable to work. Trainee jobs have been introduced that have resulted in 140 to 150 new jobs. Extra services have been introduced that have not become so many. Much more will be needed if all those who now need their first job for self-sufficiency, who need a working community to go to work, are to get to work.
i-2033913ddc33407a-310	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson does not really stick to the truth when she claims that it would appear in the government's budget bill that the exclusion amounts to 1 million. It's not like that. What is stated in the budget proposal is the number of full-year equivalents that have any kind of remuneration. This includes people who are short - term ill — perhaps a week because of the flu — or long - term ills. That includes people who are unemployed. This includes those with supply support. This includes those who are newly arrived and have start-up compensation. It is all based on remuneration, not on how far outside the labour market it stands. When the Moderates ruled increased exclusion, if you define it in the way Elisabeth Svantesson does, i.e. through full-year equivalents in the various compensation systems. Now we have another development, not least in terms of the labour market. The interest of the Moderates in the so-called alienation seems to be greatest in opposition and not so great in government positions. Mr President, I would like to Let us look at the challenges and face them in the face. What, then, do the curves show if we stick to full-year equivalents in some compensation schemes? The main concern is that sick leave is increasing. They started to grow in 2010, and since then they have increased by 75 percent. The old government was unable to break that trend. Let's get to it, but it's a tough challenge. But my colleague Annika Strandhäll has a strong reform agenda to reverse the trend with sick leave. It is extremely important to do so. There are only losers if people are sick. Both taxpayers and individuals as well as employers are losing a great deal from high sickness rates. I also contribute to this work by investing in a better working environment, which is an important part of getting to grips with sickness rates. In contrast, the number of unemployed is falling according to forecasts. Those with unemployment benefits are getting fewer. The number of participants in labour market policy programmes is falling. Those referred to as supply aid are becoming fewer. But one group is increasing, and it is people with start-up payments. It is quite obvious, because when many people have come to Sweden they should also have help to be established in the labour market. The system that was set up by the previous government, which I support, is that from the first day you should be enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen and get help and support, learn Swedish, get out to practice, validate their knowledge, get further education and help to find the right job. I am not very worried that new arrivals are unemployed day one when you are registered at Arbetsförmedlingen as the first thing that happens when you have received a residence permit in Sweden. What worries me is that there is still a very large proportion who are unemployed two years later, when the start-up period is over. That figure is very worrying. We have reduced the unemployment rate after two years, but there is still an enormous amount to be done. If we look at the problems we really have and look at what reality looks like, there are two major challenges. We need to turn the sickness rate around – reduce the number of sick days in Sweden and get fewer people who are long-term sick and more who will get back to work more quickly. It is extremely important to make reforms in this area, and so is the government. The second challenge is to ensure that new arrivals may not get a job from day one, but that the two-year start-up period will be sufficient to gain a foothold in the Swedish labour market or enter the relevant education to be able to contribute and support themselves on their own wages. Much more remains to be done here.
i-RYgC7cSFcjcqd86TrGizjv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for that answer! Let me just back down a little bit to the concept of alienation. Something that is important to me and that has been important for many years is that we lift up that concept. The Alliance was in 2006 very careful to define exclusion, because the problem then was that many were completely excluded. They were not even included in the statistics, and we wanted to make them visible: those who had been on sick leave for a long time or were early pensioners but still had the capacity to work. If Ylva Johansson feels the need to discuss full-year equivalents in this House, we can certainly do so. The point with that concept and with the way you measure – and I think it's good – is to follow the trend in how many people live on unemployment benefit and how many people are long-term sick and don't come back. It is good that you continue to include those concepts in your budget proposal. The problem is not, as Ylva Johansson's colleague Annika Strandhäll said the other day, that we would go with untruth – quite the opposite. Precisely the so-called full-year equivalents, which may be a little incomprehensible if you don't cave in the statistics, mean that more people have these subsidies. It's not just a million, it's a lot more, but not everyone's full-time. My fight is not about how we measure full-year equivalents but about people standing outside and not coming in. It can be about long sick leave or having difficulty getting the first job. When we look at your own budget proposal, we see that unemployment will rise at the end of the period, and that is my point. Around the corner there is a great concern about what reality looks like, and the reality is that more and more people are finding it harder to get in. I wish Ylva Johansson luck in bringing down the start-up period to two years for everyone who has now come to Sweden. I would like the government and Ylva Johansson to tell us how the policy that you are now pursuing is going to work. If almost half of the people who come to Sweden have less education than the ninth grade and you still believe that the policy that is currently going to lead to an establishment period of two years, you will probably have to be not only a very skilled politician but almost a sorcerer. I wish you every success in this, but a good advice is to change the policy. Let me give some advice along the way: Have a job focus from day one – a competence map already when people come to Sweden so that we know what they have with them and can contribute. Number two: Make it possible for people to work from day one. We have drawn up a proposal that can make it possible to get a suicide number if you have a job so that you can go to work right away. Many people get jobs but cannot start work because of red tape. Number three: Make sure that community information gets started already out in asylum homes and then made mandatory. Connect it to a sample so that you know what applies in Sweden. We have a great many more proposals, and I could mention them all in this House. But my point is that the government and Ylva Johansson seem to describe a problem but do not link politics to this. Reforms will be needed. We need to launch an education obligation. We need to launch reforms in order for more people to have a job to go to. I am absolutely convinced that a new form of employment is needed for new arrivals so that you can learn the job at work. After eight years, only 25 per cent of newcomers have a full year's employment. It's a huge challenge. If we are to reduce the time it takes to get to work, fine words in this House and fine words in the budget will not be enough. There is a need for strong reforms.
i-2033913ddc33407a-329	Mr President, I would like to I smile a little when I listen to Elisabeth Svantesson. The truth is, this government is doing things that the last one didn't do. Let me give you a few examples! We have introduced Swedish language teaching and information about Swedish society from day one during the asylum period. You didn't. We have given Arbetsförmedlingen a new assignment on skills mapping already during the asylum period. You didn't. We now have a proposal for a referral that everyone should receive a coordination number. The referral deadline is August. It's a proposal from the IRS. We are dealing with this issue, which you did not do. We have also addressed the difficult issue of asylum seekers' ability to open bank accounts so that employers have a place to pay up the money. We are also governed by EU rules on money laundering. But Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund has now come a long way in this matter together with Finansinspektionen and the banks. We're doing these things you didn't do. We deal with them so that we can meet the difficult challenge we face. Education is a proposal I support. We also have an agreement that we will implement this, and we are working on it. I share the view that you should learn the job at work and learn Swedish at work. I think that's a good way to learn. Then we need more forms to do so. One example of this is the fast track, where the parties jointly have a responsibility for learning their job at work. Another example is the career introduction contracts, which we are now expanding to more, such as new arrivals. A third example is the trainee jobs, which we also broaden to be able to apply to new arrivals. It combines regular education and work. We have also made suggestions on how to combine vocational training so that we can have a more effective way of getting into work for more people. We have the workshop. We're the ones doing the things you didn't do. Today we have strong economic growth. I think we're both happy about that. It is clear that strong economic growth does not solve all the problems in the labour market, but it makes it easier. It is easier for those who find it difficult to get to work to do so if there is good growth than if there is poor growth. I think we agree on that. It is clear that we cannot be satisfied just because there is good economic growth, but we have to say that it is a good and important prerequisite that makes it easier. The situation we have with regard to the growth of new jobs is serious because of the skills shortage. The Arbetsförmedlingen presented its forecasts a few days ago. The growth forecast for new jobs for next year is being written down more than would have been the case if we had been able to cope with skills supply. There are major shortcomings in the situation where people with the right skills and education do not exist sufficiently for the job vacancies. This is a price we pay for the fact that education policy and efforts have been down-priority for many years. We are now trying to train against the major skills shortages in the labour market. Elisabeth Svantesson talks about making people visible in the labour market, and I think it is good to do that. The best measure of being visible is to be part of the labour force. The labour force rate is record high, and it is increasing. It's very pleasing. There are an enormous number of people, more than ever in Sweden, I would almost believe, but it is not really measurable so that you can follow the numbers as far back in time as possible. I would not be surprised if we had the highest employment rate ever in Sweden. It's a fantastic development. It is not that more people are finding it more difficult to enter the labour market. But we have more people who find it difficult to enter the labour market but are at the disposal of the labour market. That they do the latter is gratifying. But this is, of course, a major challenge that will require a wide range of policy initiatives.
i-2033913ddc33407a-339	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the reforms implemented in recent years to increase labour force participation have had an impact. It's very important, because then people will be visible. Then they are included, and then they can also get the help they need. But I still have to get back to contentment. What I hear the Minister for Labour say in this House is that the government is quite happy. I think we should all be satisfied with economic growth that is fantastic right now. The economy is booming. This is due to a well-managed long-term economic policy with clear reforms introduced by the Alliance Government. But one can never be satisfied with the fact that the number of long-term employees at Arbetsförmedlingen is increasing in a boom and that the majority of those enrolled there are born abroad. We can never be satisfied with it as long as we also know that there will now be even more of them. I am pleased that we Moderates in opposition have made a powerful collection and changed politics. Much of what the government is now implementing, we have pushed you to do. Now it is Ylva Johansson who is Minister. She's going through politics. The few reforms that the government is now implementing are reforms that the Moderates and others in opposition have pushed forward. Finally, a generally better employment policy – a policy for jobs and growth – will be required. We see that the government is making investments. It invests one crown in business ventures, but with the other hand takes back many more by taxing jobs and entrepreneurship. That's the wrong way to go. Even the government's own expert authorities say that the jobs could be many more if the government had pursued a different policy. I hope that we in this House will hear not so much about satisfaction but about more powerful reforms.
i-2033913ddc33407a-345	Mr President, I would like to I listened during Elisabeth Svantesson's previous speech on her reform list – what she proposes to do. I could also show that the government is doing these things. We're making a workshop out of what the old government didn't do. We will have to do more things; I have also made that clear. But it is quite clear that we have a policy for jobs and growth. We have very strong growth, and we have a very strong growth of new jobs. To face up to the truth, it is a policy that turns health rates on the labour market that is more necessary. That's what we need. We have too many people who are on sick leave for too long and find it too difficult to get back to work. The second challenge is that we now have an increasing and very large group that will try to establish itself in Swedish society in a short time. Their backgrounds vary. Some have a good educational background, and others do not. It is a big step to enter the Swedish labour market. Here we will have to do more things. We will have to present further proposals beyond what we have done. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the challenges facing Sweden with regard to sick leave, with regard to the many new arrivals who are going to have a way into the Swedish labour market and with regard to the long-term unemployed who have not yet come back to work, we would have a lot to gain by working together to solve the problems. I know that we are looking at the challenges together and that we are also working together. In many places, parties cooperate widely locally and regionally to meet the challenges. I think, and I know, that we can do it at national level too. I hope we can get back to that. I would like to end by wishing Elisabeth Svantesson a good summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-350	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me whether I stand by the promise to create 20 000 additional posts as part of phasing out the employment phase. The previous government's policy for participants in the Job and Development Guarantee with deadlines and detailed management meant that few went on to work or studies and that the number of participants in the so-called Phase 3 increased. Today there are almost 700 additional services. Although the number of additional services is still lower than desired, it has increased in recent weeks – an increase that is expected to continue. In addition, for participants in the previous phase 3, the Government has introduced a special study initiative with the possibility to study for up to one year while maintaining activity support at Komvux including vocational studies, universities and colleges of applied sciences. Furthermore, the government has increased the opportunities for those who have been unemployed for the longest time to take part in work training. People who are far removed from the labour market often need a number of complementary actions. Further changes from this year are the elimination of the phase breakdown of the job and development guarantee and the requirement for a specific level of activities and the possibility for all participants in the job and development guarantee to study part-time for six months alongside participation in the guarantee. It is not clear to me what Christian Holm Barenfeld means when he says that simple jobs are not eligible for additional services because of EU state aid rules. What training a job requires is not crucial for the applicability of the regulatory framework. However, if any form of employment support is to be provided, such as additional services, these rules must always be taken into account. Of course, all the government's employment support is adapted to this regulatory framework.
i-2033913ddc33407a-354	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin, as a rule, by thanking the Minister for Labour and Establishment for the answer to my interpellation on the aggravating circumstances for additional services. Sweden is doing well now, says the Minister for Labour. It does so in many ways, and we have a positive business cycle. But we can also note – as demonstrated in a previous debate – that despite falling unemployment, we have a problem with the increase in the number of long-term employees in the Public Employment Service. This means that those who had difficulty in entering the labour market in the past today are even more difficult. It is important that we deal with this and do something about it. The Minister has promised the abolition of the employment phase during his term of office. As far as I understand, the Government's ambition has been to replace the employment phase with, among other things, so-called additional services. 20 000 additional posts were promised by the government and the Minister for Labour. The reason I put the interpellation is that we have been able to access data from both the EU and Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils that the possibility of introducing this type of extra services is severely limited by the state aid rules that exist within the EU. This means that many of the additional services envisaged will not be eligible. The services to be provided must be within the core of welfare – not only within welfare but within the core of welfare – to be approved. You can be a child nurse or a carer, according to the assessments made by both lawyers at Arbetsförmedlingen and SKL. But you can't be a receptionist or janitor at the same workplace. Furthermore, according to SKL, the interest from municipalities and county councils around the country to introduce additional services is not very high. They also find it difficult to find suitable places, and the assessment is that the additional services may be a few, but not very many. That's about where we are today. We can compare with the promise of 20 000 and see that about 600 people today have received an extra service. It's possibly a little better accuracy than when it comes to trainee jobs, which I think would be 35,000. At least they've come up to over 100 by now. In the workshop that the Minister for Labour is talking about, things are happening, but the productivity of the government's workshop is relatively low.
i-2033913ddc33407a-361	Mr President, I would like to More than 28 000 people remain in the employment phase. There are many people who, in most cases, have been outside the labour market for a long time or have been excluded. At the same time, a sharp reduction of 10,000 people is being seen in itself in a relatively short period of time. It is therefore 10 000 people who previously had employment in the employment phase and who do not now have it. The additional services are approximately 600. We can add the trainee jobs to a hundred or so.
i-2033913ddc33407a-363	Mr President, I would like to I still do not quite understand Christian Holm Barenfeld's definition of state aid rules. EU state aid rules, of course, affect how we can design all kinds of support that we have in parliament and government. Of course we follow the rules. But the rules do not prevent you from being employed in extra posts. I believe that Christian Holm Barenfeld makes a very narrow interpretation of EU state aid rules – an interpretation that I do not recognise. It is a question of not being able to support economic activity. But the reasoning as to what would be at the core of some kind of welfare or not I do not recognize at all. This is not just the case for additional services, but for all types of subsidised employment. Of course, the EU's state aid rules must be complied with. I believe that we agree on this, as well as that we should use the general exceptions that are possible for certain actions. For those who listen, perhaps we should make it clear that long-term unemployment is now falling. That's the truth. We have a decline in long-term unemployment. That is very pleasing. It was fixed at a high level for a long time, but now it's sinking. However, the proportion of people enrolled in the Employment Service, which is far from the labour market, has increased. This is partly the result of strong labour market developments. This means that those who are relatively close to the labour market now get jobs but not those who are not close to the labour market – by definition they do not if you are long-term unemployed. Some have been unemployed for a very long time when they are in phase 3, just as Christian Holm Barenfeld says. This means that the proportion of those enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen who have different difficulties increases. If we are to succeed in helping people who are far removed from the labour market, I believe that we must be quite pragmatic. One must not be too fond of one's own favorite solutions, but one must be prepared to both change and rethink policies based on what works. Subsidised employment is a form that has good evidence of good functioning for people who are far from the labour market. There is good research support and experience in this regard. There are several ways in which subsidised employment can be developed. Extra services are a form. There is also special employment support, wage subsidies and new start-up jobs. Many have criticised the fact that there may be too many different types of subsidised employment. I share that view. It would have to be simplified, and that is also something the government is working on. But it is also important to see that subsidised employment is something that has good support in research and proven experience in helping the long-term unemployed back into the labour market. However, not all are suitable for subsidised employment. For e n part, work training may be better suited. They need it before they're ready to go to a job. Others need the support and development that education can lead to. The mix of subsidised employment, work training, training and other activities must be determined on the basis of the needs and opportunities of individuals. The government's promise, which remains, is that we should phase out phase 3 and that we should give people the opportunity to get back to work, including those for whom the way back can be long. The key to the government's work is to achieve the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, which is, of course, a very ambitious objective.
i-2033913ddc33407a-372	Mr President, I would like to I am not the one who makes these claims with regard to the extra services and possible restrictions. My interpellation is based on data from Arbetsförmedlingen, which refers to its juris- ters, and from Sweden's Municipalities and Landsting and their unit for the labour market and business. They believe that there are a great many people who are cut off, and Arbetsförmedlingen notes that their lawyers have made the interpretation that it is not possible to have all these services. They are the ones who have said that it is okay to be a nurse or a nurse but not a caretaker or receptionist, as I mentioned in my previous speech. It is based on the reports we get from there, and they are obviously legal interpretations. It should reasonably have some kind of impact in reality. Perhaps this is why the extra services, like the trainee services, have so far delivered far fewer jobs than the government and the minister have promised. There does not seem to be any blockbuster in the labour market, if you say so. When Sweden is doing well, when we are in a boom and Swedish companies deliver new jobs because they have a good market and because they are doing well, people get jobs, but those who are far from the labour market do not get easier to enter. Then their share increases, as the Minister says. We have discussed labour market training in the past, where the Minister has regularly criticised the previous government for investing precisely in those who were far removed from the labour market. Now the government wants to redirect labour market training towards those who are closer to the labour market, which in the evaluations that have been carried out has clearly not proved to have a good effect. In addition, the reforms that make it more expensive to hire and less profitable will work. The Minister himself raised her ministerial colleague Annika Strandhäll, who is reviewing the company's health pay responsibility. For those who are far from the labour market and who in some cases have a long period of illness behind them, this will not reduce the steps into the labour market. At the same time, we have people who have been in the employment phase and have not switched to replacement services. Let us stop a little before the 10 000 people who have now left the employment phase and ignore the 600 additional services. I have received worrying signals that many parts of the employment phase are being terminated prematurely and that people are being sent home to passivity without any plan. This is about people who have had an employment rather than sitting at home passively waiting. What's the job minister's plan here? And is it the promise of the Minister for Employment that 20 000 people will receive additional posts during their term of office?
i-2033913ddc33407a-377	Mr President, I would like to Let me answer first. It is not good if you finish phase 3 placements prematurely without having a good alternative. The individual must receive support, for example for work training or training, in order to move forward. This is important to say. Let me also come back to this with state aid. Extra services and any other subsidised employment that exists or existed under the previous government comply with EU state aid rules. I think we agree that this should be the case. This, of course, means restrictions, but not only for extra services, but also for other forms of subsidised employment. It is the regulations that apply within the European Union that we have to comply with. There is nothing particularly related to extra services. I don't really know what Christian Holm Barenfeld is out there. It is not that he advocates that we do not comply with state aid rules, is it? Of course, the rules are restrictive, but there are also great opportunities within the framework of the regulatory framework. We will see the number of additional services increase significantly. That's my prognosis. Christian Barenfeld also raises two other issues which I must comment on. As far as labour market training is concerned, the previous government laid great emphasis on policy. It was said that labour market training would go to those furthest from the labour market. The effect of this has been negative. In other words, those who do not participate in labour market training have a better chance of getting a job than those who participate. That's crazy! This is a very expensive measure. If we are to invest in labour market training, it is clear that it must lead to jobs. That must be the goal if you invest in such expensive efforts. That is what I mean when I say that we need to be a little pragmatic in labour market policy. You can't be too fond of your own favorite solution. If you see that something is not working, which I mean was the case with the management of labour market training, for example, you have to redirect. If we're going to spend money on expensive trainings, they're going to lead to jobs. That must be the intention. Another thing I have to comment on is sick leave. We had a moderate minister in charge when the sickness rates began to turn upwards. They increased dramatically since 2010. We have had an increase of 75% since 2010. I think we agree that this is a very serious development. This is serious for employers. Today we see a shortage, and a great many employers find it difficult to find people with the right skills – not least public employers – and health rates apply not least to civil servants. If more people could be healthy or get back to work faster, the shortages in many occupations – social secretaries, nurses, teachers – would look better. This would, of course, also mean a great profit for individuals, who risk being permanently excluded from the labour market if they are on sick leave for a long time. And, of course, it is not at all fun to be sick and live on sickness benefit. Taxpayers are also winners if we turn this around, because it has a major impact on the state budget. Reversing the trend in health rates is absolutely necessary. There are only winners if we do. I can see that when the Moderates were responsible for the issue, sickness rates increased dramatically. Today, the Moderates have no suggestions on how to reverse developments. The government has addressed this. It's a difficult challenge. A great deal of action will be needed. I do not believe that all measures will be popular. However, it is necessary to make a serious effort so that we can actually reverse this very serious development.
i-2033913ddc33407a-386	Mr President, I would like to I guess there was a different debate now. But I think we're all agreed that we want the sickness rate down-- I hope so. The Alliance government did a lot in this area. Now the Minister raised one in two terms of office. We know there was a lot going on. We know we made people visible. They got into the system. They didn't end up outside. It is important whether you are unemployed or on sick leave and so on. We spend 1.8 billion on labour market training. We proposed to reduce this a little on the basis that the result is zero even when the Public Employment Service itself evaluates it. To bet that much money on something that has the result zero we thought was less wise. At the same time, it costs more if you choose to invest in those who are furthest from the labour market. Fewer people go to work. The investigators, who have presented their findings to both the Minister and the Committee on Employment, were asked directly whether it would be wise to redirect to those who are closer to the labour market, if it were not for those who are closer to the labour market even without these employment services to get a job just as much. The answer was yes. This means redirecting the money to people who would still get a job. I think it is a good thing that the Minister says that it is not good to finish posts early in the employment phase, but that there is a plan. Then I hope that it is also a clear signal to the Swedish Labour Market Authority that this should be the case. The signals we receive indicate that this is still happening. It is a good thing to comply with state aid rules. But Arbetsförmedlingen and Sveriges Kommuner and Landsting note that there will be a low interest from municipalities and county councils. That is why the question remains, to which I have not been given an answer: does the Minister still believe that there will be 20 000 additional posts during his term of office?
i-2033913ddc33407a-391	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that labour market policy measures and training should not be targeted at people who would have got a job anyway. But it is also self-evident that labour market policies, including labour market training, should be targeted at those who can be judged to have an impact. It is about the efforts to lead to work or bring people closer to work. I believe that this is a rather simple mathematics in terms of how labour market policy should be governed. Mr President, I would like to Let me answer this anyway. Yes, we will have to do a lot when it comes to people who are far from the labour market. Many have been unemployed for a very long time. There is a great risk that the group will pick up when we now have a lot of new arrivals going into the Swedish labour market. We have seen so far that a relatively small proportion has managed to enter the labour market during the two-year period of establishment. It is my focus that we will increase the proportion that comes into work or studies within two years. However, there is a significant risk, which is also reflected in our forecasts, that a number of people will move on to unemployment even after two years. It's very serious. Therefore, more government action will be needed to combat long-term unemployment. These are both those in phase 3 and those who risk becoming long-term unemployed if they do not get adequate action. I hope that we can come back to, and perhaps in some cases we can work together on, the efforts needed to achieve this.
i-2033913ddc33407a-394	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me how many people have so far begun the different fast track that the government and I have presented and which is in place and what goal I and the government have in terms of the number of people to participate in the government's fast track. I have also been asked how I and the government intend to follow up developments and report on the results of the fast track, for example to what extent people who have gone through the fast track get jobs. My ambition and the Government's ambition is that newcomers who have experience and competence in the field of shortage professions should be given the opportunity to have their documents assessed, to complement their previous professional knowledge and to read adapted professional Swedish in order to start working as quickly as possible. Everything else is a waste both for individuals and for society. Against this background, the government has initiated the rapid track to ensure that new arrivals quickly enter a workplace that is relevant to the individual's education, experience and interest. At the same time, there is a shortage of labour in many sectors. They are now being helped with the supply of skills by the Swedish Public Employment Service and the industries together creating fast-tracks to make it easier for newcomers to establish themselves in the labour market. Since January this year, 1,735 people have started various fast track activities. The number of people in the fast track in the coming years is influenced by several factors. One of them is the number of persons in the job of establishment with a previous professional background in a lack of employment. In the current monitoring and accounting, the Government primarily follows up the fast track in the same way as the Swedish Public Employment Service's other work – by the Swedish Public Employment Service annually reporting and commenting on the agency's results in the annual report. This mandate follows from Regulation 2000:605 on the annual accounts and budgetary bases. The rapid tracks we follow particularly closely, and the Ministry of Labour has ongoing contacts with the Employment Service about their work with these.
i-2033913ddc33407a-399	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Labour and Establishment, for the answer to my interpellation! I have asked the Minister a number of questions about the government's fast track for new arrivals. More than half of those enrolled in the Employment Service are born abroad. In April this year there were 187,000 people. That does not include those who have come here during what is commonly called the refugee crisis, when we have had a very large influx of foreign born, which the Minister also raised in his reply. Of course, it will also be very likely to affect the future labour market. It is particularly important that we step up and ensure that we provide better opportunities for people to enter the labour market, to get a job from day one etcetera. The fast track is one of these parts. I wonder what the government's target is. The minister may not want to set an exact number. But is there any appreciation? We have discussed numbers earlier in the debate, and we see that setting precise figures can be a bit dangerous. But it is the government's assessment that there are 1 735 people today. But we can look forward. Nevertheless, as I said, 187 000 foreign-born people are enrolled in the Employment Service now. 170 000 people came to Sweden last year. It is clear that it is important that there are 1 735 people who have actually gone to work. But there's a very large part of it that's left. What is the minister's goal? When it comes to monitoring and evaluating this, it is clear that you can do as Ylva Johansson says. You can follow it in the same way as Arbetsförmedlingen's other work when it is the annual report. But this is a big and important issue. Do you evaluate this and see: What works, and what doesn't work? How could it be strengthened and improved? Well, what's basically the minister's agenda here? How to ensure that there are many more than 1,735 people in the future? I would like to hear the Minister go into a little more detail on how she views the fast track and how they could be strengthened and improved.
i-2033913ddc33407a-403	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the opportunity to discuss this important issue! Fast track does not target all new arrivals or all foreign born. Fast track addresses those who have come from another country and who have professional experience and/or training in professions where there is a shortage. That is the very definition. Fast track does not mean that you go before someone else, but the fast track means that we significantly shorten the time it takes to be ready to work in your profession in Sweden. That is what is referred to quickly. Nor does anyone in this sense take precedence, because this is about the shortage of jobs, that is to say, there are few people who can be employed in these professions. It is about a year since I invited the social partners and asked if they would help with this. I was very pleased with the great response I received from the parties. I've become even happier when I've seen the work get started. I have to say that in relation to the speed with which we work in many other parts of the public administration, cooperation between the Public Employment Service and the social partners in terms of fast track has gone surprisingly fast and easy and has been very pragmatic. We now have a wide range of fast tracks running. More than 1,700 people have started their fast track so far, and more fast tracks are underway. One was presented a week ago and applies to social scientists and socionomists. No one has started there yet, but the fast track is presented. These are quite large groups; above all, social scientists are a very large group. Work on developing further fast track is ongoing with the parties. How many people will participate in the fast track in the future? Of course, it depends on how many shortages we have. At the moment, we have such a strong trend in the labour market that shortages tend to increase. It's not a good thing we've got a shortage job, but that's what it looks like. We have many employers in an increasing number of professions who do not get the right skills. The number of participants will depend on how many fast tracks are developed jointly between the parties. There I am very optimistic, because it is progressing at a very good pace. Then it depends on the composition of the new arrivals, their skills and their relevance to the fast track. There it looks as if in a number of professions there are quite large groups that can be expected to go into the fast track. Other groups may be important for the functioning of the labour market, but the number of people is not as large or the demand in numbers is less high. But it can be important groups to find as key competences. The fast track thus plays an important role in several different respects, not least for employers to get the right skills. But this makes it almost impossible to make a forecast of how many people can be considered for the fast track, because it is impossible for me to know what the skills of the new arrivals have and whether it matches the requirements for entering the fast track. It also looks different for different professions. Some professions are more concerned with the real skills assessed, while other professions, such as the licence professions, have more formal skills requirements that must be achieved. This, of course, also affects the conditions for the individual and how quickly it can be possible to reach that level of competence. We can expect the number to increase significantly this autumn, not least because we will be expanding to substantially more higher education institutions in the autumn, where supplementary education starts for the relatively large number of teachers in the establishment assignment. The number can be expected to fall a little during the summer, as several of the fast tracks include higher education courses that may not be given during the summer. I therefore expect that both the number of fast track and the number of individuals will increase significantly, but it is almost impossible to make a forecast of how many could be involved overall.
i-2033913ddc33407a-414	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe, I hope, that there is some party here in Parliament that has the view that it will not succeed and that more people will not be able to get into the labour market quickly. Whether a person is born in Sweden or elsewhere in the world, we know that long time outside the labour market and long time in passivity is not good for the person concerned, but of course not for the national economy either. If we can also ensure that our companies where there are shortage professions can get staff, it is even better for Sweden, for the employees and for the companies. There we have something that all parties also discuss often, and that is the validation of knowledge. Surely we have never really got there, from either side, but it has been a difficulty. If we now manage to identify skills and find those individuals who still exist in the shortage professions, how does the Minister see that it could be used in general validation in the future? That's one of the big challenges we have. A very large part of the new arrivals lack much education. Many have not completed comprehensive school, a number have completed comprehensive school, but far too few have studied upper secondary education. But even for those who have it, it takes extremely long in many situations to find or be able to confirm the skills and get certificates on this. If you succeed with the fast track, how does the Minister see that you could use it to validate knowledge for the whole group of new arrivals, if you can see them as a group, and ensure that the right people end up in the right place and that they have the opportunity to use their knowledge? It is important for the individual, but it is also a huge waste for Sweden as a country if we have the wrong people in the wrong place. It would be good if the right people were in the right place.
i-2033913ddc33407a-418	Mr President, I would like to Validation is a weak link. I think we agree on that. The government is making big investments, but so far it has proved quite difficult to get proper momentum on the validation work, so here are major challenges. I have high hopes for the validation that is taking place within the fast track, because it is the responsibility of the parties themselves. Take chefs, for example – we have a wide range of employers who open their workplaces to do the validation there, on site, in the kitchen. It is done with validators who are now trained in several different languages and not only in Swedish, so that we can safely validate the skills – that is what should be validated – and not Swedish knowledge. I believe that we will be able to take advantage of and use it in several cases. However, I do not think that will be enough, but we will have to do other things in terms of validation. We look a lot at how to translate grades in relation to the university. It's a tight sector. However, the university also has the opportunity to validate competence when someone has attended an education but lacks formal papers or may not have received or been able to get the grades. There is currently very little use of this possibility of validating real skills in relation to the education system. This is, of course, also necessary in relation to working life. So we have a great challenge here. As I have said before, we will have to do more things in this area, but Christian Holm Barenfeld points to something important: Validation is an important key, and my experience is that when it comes to validation of professional knowledge, nothing beats the social partners when they validate on the ground. Then we must also be able to contribute vocational training linked to validation, because the interesting thing is not only what you cannot, but we note that there are gaps, you should also get a chance to acquire that competence. There, vocational training is needed in several languages and/or with a SFI teacher or other support to strengthen Swedish teaching in learning so that we do not lose time in developing the necessary professional knowledge.
i-2033913ddc33407a-425	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for this debate! I think it is important that we continue with these issues. As I said, we have a lot to do in this area. We have managed to produce various forms of migration agreements, which I think has a certain effect. Then we need a lot more. It goes without saying that if we are to succeed in getting new arrivals into the labour market, the most important part is that there is a policy that creates more jobs. My colleague Elisabeth Svantesson mentioned this in the previous debate, and I can do it here: we, the Moderates, have a long list of suggestions on how to increase the number of jobs, how to make it easier for newcomers to enter the labour market through a first-job deduction and more. It is good if the Minister for Labour has a plan for his area – establishment. We can agree with some of them. We have some points of view. The problem is that, in general, there are very few proposals from the government regarding how to increase the number of jobs, how to make it more attractive to start and run a business, how companies should dare to hire and how to make it more profitable to work. There are too many proposals that make it more profitable not to work than to work, which make it more expensive to hire and which do not increase the attractiveness of starting and running companies in Sweden. We will continue to debate this, but I hope that there will be proposals from the government and that they will deliver. With that, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate and wish the Minister a pleasant summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-430	Mr President, I would like to As far as the fast track is concerned, I would like to say that what we can see so far – this has been going on for a very short time – is that the gender balance is crooked. So far, a majority of men have started fast track. It's too early to draw conclusions from that. It also depends on which fast tracks have started, which ones have been started since January and which ones have started later. But it is an aspect that we are following very closely to ensure that we can offer fast track for both women and men, which is the Government's ambition. The government's policy is clear when it comes to new arrivals: we will treat people differently. We will take into account the background, skills, needs and conditions. This means that the fast track will fit for some while other efforts will be needed for other groups. I think it is an important change that we have made, unlike the starters who were the same for everyone. In order to succeed in the great challenges we have, I believe that people must be treated differently. Mr President, I would like to I can delight Christian Holm Barenfeld with the fact that there is currently a policy that actually delivers high growth and a very strong growth of new jobs. That policy will of course continue to be pursued by the government. I would also like to conclude by thanking you for the debate and wish Christian Barenfeld a pleasant summer. Christian Holm Barenfeld has gilded many of my Fridays, and I look forward to us continuing with that business after the summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-434	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what conclusions I have drawn from the fact that trainee services and auxiliary services have not fallen out well and whether there is any other difference between e.g. transport services and emergency work that can help the latter to function better. As Erik Andersson points out, there are only about a hundred trainee jobs at present. Trainee jobs involve a combination of work and regular education. Several parties are involved in this effort, and the number of trainee jobs therefore depends on the active action of these parties. It is gratifying that youth unemployment is falling, which helps reduce the initial target group of trainee jobs. Trainee jobs must be allowed to develop continuously in order to ensure good quality in both employment and education. At the same time, there is a clear need to secure generational change in a wide range of industries. To ensure the need for skills in generational change, the government has expanded the target group for trainee jobs to include the long-term unemployed and newcomers. Today there are almost 700 additional services. Although the number of additional services is still lower than desired, they have increased in recent weeks – an increase that can be expected to continue. Modern preparedness work is in line with the recommendations of the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance Policy. Both authorities stress that there is a need to stimulate the emergence of more jobs with lower qualification requirements. Sweden needs more jobs with lower qualification requirements but not lower wages. The government is now making sure that the state takes the lead and creates modern preparedness jobs through its authorities. It should be jobs with lower qualification requirements on good terms that provide work experience and pay.
i-2033913ddc33407a-440	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Labour and Establishment for his answer. However, the question remains. Of the 32,000 trainee jobs, it's two years into the term of office-- it's halftime now, so you've got two more years to go-- it's 100. Of the 20 000 additional posts, according to the Minister for Employment, 700 have become. What I miss in the answer is self-criticism. Could it be done in another way so that this could be better? It is not that there is a lack of care or that there is a lack of places where people can learn a new profession or learn the job at work. Although unemployment is now falling, 348 000 people are still unemployed, and 56 000 young people are unemployed. The 348 000 are like a larger city, and the 56,000 young people are like a large municipality. Sometimes it feels like the Minister for Labour is very satisfied, but you can't be when there are so many people who are unemployed. Of course, those who get sick at work are particularly vulnerable, and it is especially women who get sick at work – from stress. The proportion of long-term unemployed is increasing, so it is clear that we have major challenges ahead of us in this country. That is why I ask myself: how is this lack of self-criticism? One answer may be that it is difficult for politics to create jobs. Jobs are created by companies that are allowed to grow. In politics, of course, we can make it easier for jobs to be created with good and working rules. However, due to the poor achievement of the goals of trainee jobs and extra services, one wonders why the government continues along this path. With pomp and glory on May 1st, the Prime Minister delivered 5,000 standby jobs. In the party leader debate you could hear that those who receive these will help to scan documents and clean beaches. Then of course you wonder: Is this the right way for Sweden? If you have tried a medicine that works, you wonder if the alert jobs will work the same way. Does the Minister for Labour and Establishment really think that it will succeed in preparing for a complete failure in the extra services and trainee jobs? I remember, Mr President, working for the City of Stockholm a while ago. At the time, the Minister of State Persson delivered something called a plus job. We were asked by the Social Democratic government to employ as many as we could for the unemployment figures to fall. Of course, there weren't many plus jobs because the need wasn't there. I'm sorry, but I don't think it's gonna get any better with the standby jobs. It is also necessary to have the time and the opportunity to mentor and get people into a labour market, and as things stand today, the workplaces are very slim and streamlined. The question is whether there is anything else that is needed for Sweden than state preparedness jobs.
i-2033913ddc33407a-450	Mr President, I would like to One should be pragmatic in labour market policy; I have declared that many times. One should be careful to be too fond of one's own favorite solutions. You always have to be prepared to reconsider when reality changes, and it does – very quickly. The welcome change that has taken place during this term of office is that youth unemployment is falling sharply. That is very pleasing. There are still some left; there are still some young people in difficulty. There we have now set up a good local cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities with joint agreements where they now sit together, in many cases co-located, and work to solve the situation and also help those young people who find it difficult to get into the labour market. This, of course, means that the original target group for, for example, trainee jobs has been significantly reduced. I'm glad to hear that. There is no intrinsic value in having people in labour market policy measures if they are able to find a job without labour market policy intervention. Of course, that's the best part. It is also the development we have seen, and that development has been stronger than we thought in opposition and what many others thought. That is very pleasing. We have an incredibly strong growth of new jobs. The major problem in the labour market is the difficulty for employers to find people with the right skills. Although very many new jobs are being created at the moment and we have good development, not all individuals have easy access to jobs in this labour market. High demands are often made, and there are groups that find it difficult to meet those requirements. There is a need to invest in education, but that is not enough – there is also a need to ensure that more jobs are created with low qualification requirements. It is not quite simple, but efforts will be needed to get them out. We now see, for example, a space in the municipalities. Many schools are now growing incredibly fast when they have many more students. Of course, more teachers are needed. But there is also a need in many places for more adults at school, or teachers' assistants if you like, that is, people who can relieve teachers of their work by helping with other tasks in relation to children and young people. Here, for example, the additional services fit in. There are also needs in, for example, elderly care and care. We see that the reform of RUT deductions has helped many people with low qualifications into the labour market. It is a reform that we are building in cooperation with other parties with which we have made agreements to find further jobs in the private sector. These are jobs for which lower qualification requirements are imposed but which provide contractual and reasonable conditions for those who have these jobs. There is also a need to look at whether further reforms can be made in this area. That is one of the things that my colleague Mikael Damberg is looking at further. One sector where there are often high qualification requirements for getting a job is the government sector. The State sector is one of the sectors that makes the least use of subsidised services. It is reasonable that municipalities and county councils, the private economy and also the state contribute in a situation where we will have to ensure that more jobs are also created for people who are unable to meet the high qualification requirements normally placed on the labour market. That's the background to the state-of-the-art emergency work. Of course, this is not the solution to the challenge, but it is one way of demonstrating that the state will also contribute.
i-2033913ddc33407a-460	Mr President, I would like to I heard the Minister for Employment say the word "happy" a number of times. It is clear that we are all happy that youth unemployment is falling. But you can never be satisfied when 56 000 young people are still unemployed. Let us hope that these standby jobs will succeed better than, for example, additional services. It is clear that there is a need for arms in care and assistants in schools. Yet there will be no more. Then you wonder what's gone wrong. There I miss a little bit of a self-crit ik and possibly a few wonders of what we can do better. I knew the Minister for Labour would say that unemployment is falling. However, as far as the RUT deductions are concerned, I would say that the best thing for business, and for that matter for everyone else, is long-termness. When you chose to halve the RUT deduction there was a concern in the industry. As a result, the industry did not grow in the significant way it did in the past, and many become anxious. Then it is clear that people are not hired. RUT is a good example of how to get into the labour market, when you may not have much experience of the Swedish labour market, and learn the language at work and work at work. In fact, this government has worsened reforms that provide more jobs. The job tax credit, which gave 130 000 jobs, has been reduced and the RUT deduction has been reduced, which gave 20 000 jobs. Instead, a complicated system has been chosen to halve VAT on repairs, and it has made it more expensive for young and older people to get a job. According to the Institute of Economic Development, the proportion of foreign-born people will increase rapidly in the future, and it will take time for them to enter the labour market. Nevertheless, it is estimated that labour force participation will decrease over the forecast period. The employment rate thus falls from 2017. Mr President, I would like to As I said before, we face enormous challenges. We have 348 000 people who are unemployed, and 56 000 of them are young people. You can't be happy when it looks like it does. We have enormous challenges ahead of us. Duttting here and there has no effect. Mr President, I would like to The economy is strong, and we should be happy about that. At the same time, however, there is no plan for how work and effort should pay off in this country. The Government prioritises raising contributions to those who can work but choose not to work. Self-sufficiency must be made more profitable. I like to see tax relief on lower incomes. Where did the values of the labour movement go, including zeal and diligence? An old famous phrase in a song that is very familiar to the Minister for Labour says: "Both and mend us oppressed, we un der treasured down." We want the jobs to grow, and you want the contributions to be more.
i-2033913ddc33407a-470	Mr President, I would like to Let me first correct Erik Andersson on one point. It is not correct that the RUT deduction has been halved. The RUT deduction is still 50% of the wage cost. It's still here. It's intact. What has been lowered is the ceiling for how much services each individual can deduct for per year. But the RUT deduction itself is intact. Labour market developments are moving in the right direction, and this is gratifying. Of course, the direction of development is very important – not only the absolute level, but also the direction. During the old government, we had a lower long-term unemployment rate than most other countries in the EU. But we had an increasing long-term unemployment, which of course was worrying and serious. Now it finally turns down. I'm in no way satisfied. However, developments are moving in the right direction in the labour market, and this is gratifying. It should be used so that we can best shape policies on the basis of the actual economic situation and the actual situation on the labour market. We should not live in notions of a different labour market from the one we actually have. Other developments are going the wrong way. Sick leave, which we have debated in the past, has increased by 75% since 2010. It is very serious and very worrying, and there are only losers in such a development. We need to do a lot more here, and the government has put forward a long reform agenda to reverse this. Mr President, I would like to Let me also remind you a little bit of the pessimism of the Moderates. The Moderates said that if you restore the social security contribution for young people to the same level as for others, youth unemployment will skyrocket. That's how it sounded from the Moderates. We restored the labour donor contribution to the same level as for others, and youth unemployment is falling. I am not saying that it is an effect of employers' contributions that young people's unemployment is falling. Of course it's not. But I can see that the pessimism of the Moderates and the blacking out of development were completely disappointed. As far as unemployment insurance is concerned, we heard the Moderates say that if you have a decent level, so that those who are unemployed do not also have to become poor, this will lead to an increase in unemployment. Now we have a decent level of unemployment insurance, and unemployment is falling. I'm not saying it's because we have a higher ceiling in the unemployment fund. But I can again say that the pessimism of the Moderates does not come true. I think it is important to learn a lesson from the fact that perhaps one has been quite wrong in one's forecasts before. It was in a government position when they had to come back all the time with a revision of their forecasts in the wrong direction, and that has also been the case in opposition. The current government has also constantly had to revise its forecasts, but in the right direction. Unemployment trends have improved every time we have made forecasts. Employment developments have improved every time we have come up with a forecast. Of course, it is much more positive to be able to revise the forecasts in the right direction.
i-2033913ddc33407a-478	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Labour tells me that we are pessimistic. I have a memory from the election campaign. Who was it that said then that something is breaking up in Sweden and that it feels as if Sweden is being pulled apart? When the Alliance ruled, especially during Reinfeldt 2, we ended up in an extreme recession – almost the hardest since the depression of the 1930s. Yet Reinfeldt's government managed to ensure that Sweden did much better than the rest of Europe. It can't be forgotten. One should always be self-critical, and I wish the Minister for Employment could be more self-critical in terms of trainee services and extra jobs. There is a need for more arms in the care and teaching assistants in schools. And yet it's going to be wrong. Then we may wonder, What has gone wrong? We are in a boom, and I would like to say that the Social Democratic governments have been lucky there – they have often ruled during the boom. So I would not like to say that it is thanks to the social democratic government that unemployment is falling, but it is doing so despite the social democratic government. We are pleased, and everyone else is pleased. We still have 348 000 unemployed, and we still have 56 000 unemployed young people. Then you can ask yourself why not extra jobs and trainee services become more. Otherwise, I wish the Minister for Employment all the best in his work and a happy summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-484	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we have serious gaps in Sweden. They increased during the previous government, and they remain. We still have very big problems with serious gaps in Sweden. Although Sweden is doing well, not everyone in Sweden is doing well. This is one of the most important issues, and the government has put forward – and implemented – comprehensive proposals. We invest 10 new welfare billions, lastingly, to hire more people in welfare activities. Since we took office, we have employed 13,000 more people at school. Finally, the trend is reversed so that there will be more employees so that we can raise the knowledge results in school. We have strengthened the economy of single parents, and we have strengthened the economy of the unemployed. We have also greatly strengthened the economy for pensioners, especially those with the lowest pensions. Combating unemployment is the most important factor in reducing social inequalities in the long term, and this is the most important overall issue for the government. Progress is moving in the right direction, but much more remains to be done. Mr President, I would like to I also wish Erik Andersson a pleasant summer and look forward to continuing to discuss and debate employment policy when we meet after the summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-488	Mr President, I would like to Anti Avsan has asked me what circumstances and facts are the basis for my position that there should be a right to remain in Sweden when you have committed crimes with a penalty value of between six and twelve months in prison. He has also asked whether I can agree with the assessment that it is reasonable to use the space available in Sweden to receive first and foremost people who are law-abiding and whether I can agree with the assessment that, in cases where it is reasonably impossible to determine whether there are later obstacles to enforcement, it is appropriate for the question to be decided when the execution of the expulsion is brought up to date. Finally, he has asked what facts and circumstances lie at the heart of my position that the prosecutor should not have an obligation to raise the issue of expulsion. I would like to start by making it clear that there is no unconditional right to remain in Sweden for persons who have committed crimes with a penalty value of between six and twelve months in prison. It is always a case-by-case assessment of whether an expulsion is a reasonable legal effect of the offence committed. This is an assessment that the courts have to make and in which there are a number of balances. A basic requirement is that the foreigner be sentenced to a more severe penalty than a fine. As a general rule, if the person convicted has not previously committed a crime, the seriousness of the crime is more stringent. It emerges from preliminary work and practice that the penalty value for the offence normally exceeds prison for one year. However, the court may order expulsion even if the offence has a lower penalty value, for example in the case of offences against children, perjury or abuse of a legal case. The order we have today is balanced and ensures a reasonable proportionality between offences, penalties and special legal effects in the form of expulsion. A more serious crime or a risk of continued crime should be required to decide on expulsion, in particular in cases where previously unpunished persons are involved. A deportation decision shall not be taken if it is clear that there are obstacles to its enforcement. It is therefore justified that the court considering expulsion should take into account the existence of such circumstances. In order to obtain a basis for the assessment, the court may obtain an opinion from the Finnish Immigration Service. Finally, I do not see the need to impose an obligation on prosecutors to demand expulsion in all criminal cases where this may be relevant. In investigations involving serious or repeated crime committed by a person who is not a Swedish citizen, the prosecutor must always consider and consider the issue of expulsion according to the guidelines of the authority. If the prosecutor concludes that the criminal offence is such that expulsion can be considered, he or she shall, as a general rule, make such a claim. I believe that the prosecutor, who is well aware of the circumstances, can decide when such a claim should be made.
i-2033913ddc33407a-496	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. In all societies, it is important to combat crime. It is also important that people who come to Sweden know that crime is not accepted here. For those who are not Swedish citizens, there is no obvious right to stay in Sweden if the person in question has been guilty of a crime. The question is where to draw the limit, and that is what the intersection is about – except how the rules on expulsion due to crime can be more consistent and that equal cases should be treated equally. The reason why I have put the current questions to the Minister of Justice is that we Moderates believe that more cases should lead to expulsion due to crime. We Moderates have proposed that foreign citizens who commit crimes with a penalty value equivalent to at least six months' imprisonment may be expelled without regard to any risk of relapse and solely because of the seriousness to be attributed to such crime. Today, the limit is a penalty equivalent to one year's imprisonment or more. We Moderates have also proposed that the question of enforcement should be examined in the context of expulsion, in order to avoid speculation on enforcement obstacles – in many cases a long time before the exercise is brought up to date. Finally, we Moderates have proposed that prosecutors should have an obligation to raise the issue of expulsion if the issue of expulsion can be raised. We think these proposals are entirely reasonable, and we have looked at a variety of court rulings and how the rules are actually applied. Today's regulations mean that a foreigner may be expelled from Sweden if he or she is convicted of a crime that can lead to imprisonment. However, the foreigner may only be expelled if the sentence imposed is more severe than a fine and it can be assumed that the sentenced person will continue to commit crime in this country – then it may also be a matter of less than six months – or if the offence is so serious that he or she should not be allowed to remain in Sweden. Expulsion on the latter basis normally presupposes, as I mentioned earlier, that the offence has a penalty equivalent to at least one year's imprisonment. There are also other issues to be assessed, such as the issue of enforcement barriers. Part of it is if the sentenced person is in danger of death, corporal punishment, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The obligation for the court to examine for itself whether the conditions for expulsion exist is very difficult to fulfil if the prosecutor has not made a claim and has also attached, for example, judgments from other countries or criminal records if it may be a reason to consider that there is a risk of continued crime. If the prosecutor does not do that job, the court does not have the necessary knowledge to expel a person. As far as the prosecutor's duty itself is concerned, it is perhaps not quite what the Minister of Justice says, but when it comes to serious or repeated crime that the prosecutor should consider and take a position on the issue of expulsion. If the prosecutor concludes that the criminal offence is such that expulsion can be considered, he shall, as a general rule, make such a claim.
i-2033913ddc33407a-503	Mr President, I would like to I think Anti Avsan and I agree on the basics. The signal should be very clear: If you commit crimes in Sweden and are not a Swedish citizen, you should also be able to be expelled. The question is where to draw the line. When Anti Avsan is commenting on my interpellation response, I note that he is a little drifting away from the presentation he made in the interpellation. In the interpellation he wrote that there is a right to remain in Sweden if you get a prison sentence that is between six months and a year. That's wrong. There is no right to remain in Sweden if you receive a penalty of between six months and a year. It is not correct, but it is an assessment by the court in the individual case based on the crime involved and also on the circumstances. Offences with a lower penalty may also result in expulsion. For example, pickpockets can be expelled, as is the case. Anti Avsan knows what his approach is, legally trained as he is. He also knows that there are no new rules. In fact, I do not understand at all why he is talking about my position in the interpellation. First of all, it's wrong in principle. There is no right to remain in Sweden if you are sentenced to prison between six months and a year, but it is assessed in each individual case. Secondly, these are not rules that I have made up. These are rules that have existed in Sweden for many years, under both bourgeois and social democratic governments. It has always been said that the regulatory framework is well balanced. As late as May 1, 2014, some minor adjustments were made to this statute by the former bourgeois government and Beatrice Ask. She then chose not to change the team room in substance. I also note that Mr Anti Avsan himself sat on the Committee on Justice during the last parliamentary term and then voted against changes on the very points he is now raising. The Parliament dealt with motions in this direction. Now that he is in opposition, he suddenly changes his mind and, in my opinion, misinterprets the rules. In any case, that is what the interpellation expresses. Finally, I would like to say something about the responsibilities of the prosecutors. The prosecutors shall, of course, demand expulsion when justified. I do not think we have any differences of opinion on this. But my opinion is that this must be the case of the prosecutors. I trust our prosecutors, and I don't want to write them on my nose too much. I'm not interested in that. I trust that they will make accurate and balanced assessments. It is important that we let the professionals be professionals when dealing with Swedish government. And the prosecutors are professionals. So let us trust them.
i-2033913ddc33407a-512	Mr President, I would like to I do not choose to misunderstand the Minister of Justice. But even if we fully agree that there is no unconditional right to remain in Sweden, or a conditional right under certain conditions, you have the right to remain, even though you have committed a crime, if you are under review in a criminal procedure and the court finds that there are no grounds for expulsion. The situation in Sweden with regard to the refugee crisis and the number of people who want to come here is, of course, well aware of the Minister of Justice. In various contexts, he has issued a statement that the search pressure on Sweden is very high and that many people want to come here. In this perspective, one might ask whether it is reasonable for people to remain on the scale that the current rules actually mean when there are other people who are entirely law-abiding. As the Minister for Justice and Migration has also said, we do not exactly have the room to receive everyone. It's pretty hard to get to people who come here in refugee flows. The Minister of Justice will also know that, for example, so-called street children – in many cases young adult men – come here from many different countries and commit crimes. There are particular problems with enforcement. The countries from which they are supposed to come or come often do not want to receive them. In fact, not everyone who has come here in the situation that we have experienced for a long time has the will to work and do the right thing, as most people want. It's very boring. Therefore, there is reason to look into this. Our view is that a review of the regulatory framework should cover all the conditions for expulsion. The possibility of expelling it in connection with Sweden, for example through a family, should, as at present, be more limited than for those who have no such connection. However, it can be discussed how limited the scope for expulsion should be. This is particularly true if the offence committed is directed at one of the people on whom the connection to Sweden is based. As I mentioned earlier, I have looked at various legal cases and, as an example, I have been able to point to a case where a person was sentenced to prison for ten months for assault on two occasions. There was no claim whatsoever from the prosecutor. Quite recently, it emerged that during the main hearing, a prosecutor had withdrawn a motion for expulsion in a case where a 13-year-old girl had been subjected to a rape for which the offender was convicted. In the media, the prosecutor has said: After all, the perpetrator had established himself well in the country, and he was doing well. At that time, it felt unfair to insist on expulsion. There are quite a few other examples of actual application, and I can mention one more. One person was sentenced to two years and six months in prison for aggravated assault by a woman who was currently pregnant. There were no grounds for non-enforcement. But the woman was expecting the offender's child. She had stated that she wanted the offender to have contact with the child in the future, and the offender's parents and siblings were in Sweden. There it was not called for deportation.
i-2033913ddc33407a-520	Mr President, I would like to If I had been Anti Avsan, I might have thought a little about how far I as a Member of Parliament should go into commenting on individual matters. I cannot do it as Minister of Justice, nor will I do it. I simply note that the premise of this interpellation is not correct. There is no right to remain in Sweden if you are sentenced to prison for six months and up to a year. Yet that is exactly what is in the interpellation. The first question I get is: on what circumstances and facts has the Minister based his position that there should be a right to remain in Sweden if you have committed crimes with a penalty value of between six and twelve months in prison? Firstly, there is no such right to remain in Sweden. Secondly, my position? Sounds like I made it up. It's a double error. These are rules that have existed in Sweden for a long time, under both bourgeois and social democratic governments, so the interpellation is basically based on a misconception, in my opinion. Swedish courts decide on expulsions in 600 to 700 cases a year – and this has remained stable in the last ten years – mainly for theft and grand theft, but also many cases of drug smuggling. It is not linked to asylum seekers, as Anti Avsan tries to give the impression in his speech. It is not that most foreign citizens who commit crimes are asylum seekers, but that they are foreign citizens who enter Sweden. They may go on various theft tours, break into Swedish countryside, take care of as much stolen goods as possible and then try to transport it to, for example, the Baltics, Poland or other countries. It may also be people involved in drug trafficking. So it is not primarily a question of asylum seekers, so I really do not understand why Anti Avsan chooses to raise this particular issue in the interpellation. Then we have concerns about the street children from North Africa, which we suspect comes primarily from Morocco. They are usually not asylum seekers, but they stay in Sweden, have stayed for quite a long time in Europe in a rather encircling life and have during that time committed a number of crimes. When they are then convicted of crime, we have the concern of not being able to expel them to their homeland, because, as Anti Avsan says, cooperation with Morocco has been a problem. Both I and the Minister for the Interior met the President of Morocco at the beginning of the year, and the Secretary of State of the Minister for the Interior was present in Morocco about a month ago. We are about to put together a special committee to deal with these matters gradually so that we can have effective cooperation and so that Morocco can receive its own citizens, because it is of course a matter of course that we should do so in the international system we have. These are often difficult assessments. As a whole, the regulatory framework works well. As I said, I trust the judgment of the prosecutors and the courts. One can always draw up individual cases on which one can comment, but I will not go into such a detailed discussion. However, the signal must be clear. If you commit crimes in Sweden and are not Swedish citizens, you are at great risk of being expelled.
i-2033913ddc33407a-530	Mr President, I would like to My position in the interpellation is based on my understanding of what the Minister of Justice wrote in his reply to a written question from Johan Forssell, the Moderates, as a position. Maybe it's not that strange. When I talk about the right to remain in Sweden, it will be the consequence, in any case, of the assessment of the offences and of whether they should lead to expulsion. If you are not expelled from Sweden in a situation where you have been sentenced for a crime where the penalty value corresponds to prison for between six months and a year, the consequence is that you have the right to remain here, in any case for that reason. I have not said that this is about asylum seekers. It is about all people where the issue of expulsion may be relevant. The issue is, in my opinion, raised by the fact that there are many honest people seeking refuge in Sweden but may not be able to accommodate everyone, and that is why we are dealing with the refugee crisis. Then it is reasonable to consider whether we should be so generous in allowing those who have committed crimes to remain. This matter of the prosecutor's duty would also be good for many other reasons. It is also a matter of punishment and punishment for the person who is to remain. It is good for the court to know whether a person has been guilty of a crime in the past, because it is valuable to find out about the issue of expulsion. Even in the case of persons who have committed crimes in other countries, it is of great benefit in the ordinary application of the law and in the judgment of the courts. I have my own experience with that. Finally, I wish the Minister of Justice a pleasant summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-535	Mr President, I would like to Anti Avsan says we shouldn't be so generous about letting people stay. My firm opinion is that we are not. We are not generous in allowing people who have committed crimes to remain in Sweden. In any case, we are not more generous now than in the bourgeois era, when we had exactly the same order as Anti Avsan defended when the Moderates were in government. The signal must be ready. If you come to Sweden and are not a Swedish citizen and commit crimes, you run a great risk of being expelled. It can also be done even if the penalty is between six months and a year. To a large extent, we expose, for example, pickpockets and others who commit theft. Most of the people we are expelling are committing precisely this type of offence. This is not my position, but it is a practice that has existed for a long time and has been defended by both bourgeois and social democratic governments. The existing regulatory framework is well balanced. At the same time, we must be clear that Sweden has a firm attitude towards those who come here and commit crimes: there is a great risk of returning to their home country. The issue of Morocco and the problem of being able to return people to certain countries are dealt with as best we can. That is also a major concern. Do not confuse this issue with the issue of asylum, for the vast majority of foreign citizens who commit crimes are not asylum seekers. Finally, I wish Anti Avsan a pleasant summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-543	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Coenraads has asked the Minister for Trade what strategy is being taken at EU level to spread the good example from Swedish livestock production with minimal antibiotic use and whether the Government intends to work to include in future free trade agreements reduced antibiotic use in livestock farming as a criterion. Since the question focuses mainly on the policy of reducing the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, I answer the questions. I agree with the need to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry and that good experience from Swedish animal husbandry should benefit other countries. In the fight against antibiotic resistance, Sweden is a pioneer country. Sweden has the EU's lowest use of antibiotics in animals and a uniquely good resistance situation, which is explained by targeted efforts on animal welfare and preventive animal health care. We have shown that low antibiotic consumption is compatible with efficient production and high returns. The government recently presented an updated version of the Swedish strategy against antibiotic resistance. It has a clearer international focus compared to the previous one, and its content is widely anchored in the Riksdag. I appreciate the commitment shown by the parties in the previous government in the cross-block talks that preceded the government decision. The government's strategy to combat antibiotic resistance at EU and international level is to continue to be a driving force for better animal husbandry and a reduced need for antibiotics in animals. We have extensive experience and many success factors to share. In the EU, negotiations are currently under way on a new regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which is an excellent opportunity to bring about concrete measures to slow down the development of antibiotic resistance. In these negotiations, Sweden is pushing for a total ban on preventive antibiotic treatment to groups of healthy animals. We are a credible player in the field of antibiotics, and we are prepared to contribute our expertise in this area. It is my firm opinion and that of the government that cooperation is the best method for reducing the use of antibiotics. To make trade more difficult, for example, does not solve the basic problem, which is that excessive use of antibiotics leads to the development of resistance. Important cooperation is already taking place within the framework of the World Health Organisation, the Food and Agriculture Organisation and the World Organisation for Animal Health. Sweden has also initiated work within the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to produce cost estimates for antibiotic resistance, including what it would cost to improve production systems so that the need for antibiotics can be reduced. Such estimates are largely lacking today. In addition, the government is pushing for cooperation on the reduction of antibiotic use in animal production to be included in the relevant free trade agreements negotiated by the EU. As an example, I suggested earlier that the EU and the US should cooperate on the reduction of antibiotic use in the context of the TTIP. Sweden believes that negotiations with Mexico on a renewed free trade agreement and negotiations with the Mercosur countries should also cover the issue of antibiotic resistance. International trade risks contributing to the spread of antibiotic resistance through the free movement of people, animals and goods, which calls for awareness of the risks. At the same time, the conditions for international trade need to continue to develop in order to increase prosperity in the world. I am convinced that these two aspects can be reconciled. I therefore think that we can benefit from the EU's negotiations on modern and broad trade agreements also in the strategic work against antibiotic resistance.
i-2033913ddc33407a-556	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. It is a little unfortunate that Minister Linde has chosen to hand over my interpellation to the Minister for Rural Development, because it deals with trade agreements with countries outside the EU, and it is an issue that I hope the Minister for Trade is in charge of in government. The reduction of antibiotics in the world is a high priority right now, not only in animal production but also in health care. We have come a long way in both areas of Sweden, and the world's eyes are often directed at us to learn more about how we succeed. Unfortunately, not all countries are as good as we are, and it is therefore important that we inform and push on other countries to tackle the problem, which is no longer national but international. It is not only about antibiotics in animal husbandry, but also about prescriptions in health care. The government has continued the work started by the Alliance, and, as the Minister for Rural Development mentions in his reply, there is a broad parliamentary consensus on the issue of reducing antibiotic resistance. It is important that this consensus continues and that we continue to move forward together, regardless of the government that governs. However, I am a little surprised when the Minister describes in his reply that the Government's updated version is widely anchored in the Riksdag. I would like to recall that we have not had the question at Parliament's table and, above all, not how antibiotic resistance is the basis for future free trade agreements; that is why this interpellation. Mr President, I would like to We travel more and more in the world, and bacteria care neither about border controls nor the distance between the countries of the world. Diseases that we thought were eradicated in the modern world are now coming back, as medicines no longer help. New cases of antibiotic resistance are detected all over the world, and Sweden is not spared this. We don't have time to sit in the waiting room while the government talks with other countries. While we are debating here and now, people are fighting for their lives around the world. We need concrete action now. Trade barriers are a problem in a world that needs more free trade, but free trade agreements are more than free trade. Sweden joined the European Union because we needed more cooperation to solve global problems. Similarly, it is now important that we use our voice to make trade agreements between the EU and the US stronger and better. The United States has problems with the widespread use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, and that meat then comes to Europe. In future agreements, therefore, it is important to include a reduction in the use of antibiotics as a priority. The government has a chance to influence the import of antibiotic meat to Sweden right now, but how this should be done is reflected by its absence in the Minister's response. It is gratifying that the Prime Minister has appointed a Minister for Trade, and the Government has a lot to deal with in the future. Trade between the countries of the world is increasing, and as the world's two largest economies now re-establish the standard for food, it is important that national legislation does not make cross-border trade more difficult or that the simplest solution is put in place. For Swedish producers, it is also important that we can export to the US and that the conditions of competition are fair. We have a chance, and it's now. If we fail, the government can no longer beat itself to the chest and say that we are at the forefront of the fight against antibiotic resistance. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is the same as I would have liked to put to the Minister for Trade: what is the international approach?
i-2033913ddc33407a-569	Mr President, I would like to As far as parliamentary support is concerned, Åsa Coenraads took a very active part in the discussions that we had on several occasions together with expert groups and members of parliament that the government had invited for talks. We had very constructive discussions and a great consensus on these occasions. We have also anchored the positions in both the Committee on the Environment, Agriculture and Social Affairs, where I have participated and explained how we have worked on these issues. Antibiotic resistance is a matter of global destiny. Unfortunately, there is an excessive use around our world, not least in livestock production. I agree with Åsa Coenraads that it is far from all countries that assume their responsibilities for this. It looks very bad in many countries on these issues. However, Sweden has worked long-term and very strategically with these issues since the early 90s. The issues have been dealt with without party political disagreement; there have been fears that this will be done jointly. I think that's good. I also think it is a good thing that we could come together and have a very constructive discussion on these issues when we anchored the new strategy adopted by the government. As far as the continuing work at international level is concerned, I guarantee and promise Åsa Coenraads that I will raise the issues at all meetings where there is an opportunity, not least when we meet in the Council of Ministers. I raised the issue myself when it came to the TTIP negotiations, and I received a great deal of support from many countries last autumn. As a result, the Commission included antibiotics in the negotiations. I have a close dialogue on these issues with Commissioner Malmström, who is conducting the negotiations. She visited us recently in the government, and the issue was discussed. I have great confidence in her way of running the negotiations and ensuring that it will be a good thing.
i-2033913ddc33407a-574	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Minister, for your answer. It is true that we have had talks between individual Members of Parliament and three ministers on the issue of antibiotic resistance. But what I have missed in the talks are concrete proposals on how to work strategically internationally with the issue, in addition to the conferences where the government has been represented. That is really what my question in this interpellation debate is about in essence – how to make the Swedish voice heard in the EU in order to achieve a good trade agreement between the EU and the US. With its strong Swedish voice, the government has an opportunity to influence the international negotiations and get to a strategy where we set the standard in the world for food agreements between countries. If we do not make our voice heard now, there is a risk that it will be other countries with strong future economies that will set the standard in the future. This is not an issue where the Alliance or the government are losers, but it is humanity that will be the great loser if we do not succeed in reducing antibiotic resistance in the world. I therefore believe that the government must provide more concrete information on the progress of the negotiations. Talking is not enough. We can't sit in the waiting room while people die in our hospitals.
i-2033913ddc33407a-578	Mr President, I would like to We have a good resistance situation in our country. That is not really the threat we have on this issue; it is the international situation. If we do not have an international commitment to these issues, it will be a major threat to us as a country. That's why the government is actively working at international level, and that's why the international aspects are raised in the new strategy. We are addressing these issues in, for example, the OECD, FAO and WHO. We are also pushing for much stricter rules in the EU when issues are discussed. We in Sweden are considered to be very credible in this matter, and the Swedish competence – how we have done and in what way we work – is often demanded on the international stage. Nevertheless, I believe that the way in which the government pushes these issues, as did the previous government, gives us respect and credibility on these issues. It is also important to say that we should not restrict trade because we are opening up new trade agreements. We shall have trade agreements, but these issues must be raised in the discussions in order to improve the overall situation on the international stage.
i-2033913ddc33407a-582	Mr President, I would like to The negotiations on a free trade agreement between the EU and the US are in their final stage, and the issue of antibiotic resistance has not yet been addressed in the negotiations. The Minister for Rural Development has raised this issue at the EU ministerial meetings. But what is the Secretary of Commerce doing in negotiations with the United States? It may be that the negotiations themselves are difficult for the government because they have a cooperation party that does not really believe in growth and a support party in parliament that does not believe in a market economy or in cooperation between free countries. Nevertheless, the Minister for Rural Development should be able to influence the Minister for Trade to make the negotiations as good as possible. The question of my cad antibiotic resistance should be easier to reach agreement within the government. Trade barriers are a problem in a world that needs more free trade. But free trade agreements are about more than free trade. The fact that the Minister is unable to respond specifically to the question of whether the strategy contained in the Swedish position is worrying, and the TTIP agreement is now in danger of becoming watered down and thin. Time for action is now. We will come back to this issue in the autumn and see what has happened and hopefully also how we will be able to move the Swedish position forward together. With that, I would like to wish the Minister for Rural Affairs a pleasant summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-587	Mr President, I would like to I have to correct Åsa Coenraads who says that antibiotic resistance has not been addressed in the TTIP negotiations. It has been mentioned, and there were also positive reactions from the United States when the issue was raised by the Commissioner. Nevertheless, it is the Commissioner who is conducting the negotiations on behalf of the European Union. Our Minister for Trade and I also have very close contact with the Commissioner on these issues. That's it. However, there is no doubt that antibiotic resistance has come up in the negotiations. We will continue to raise the issue of antibiotics in this international context; we will never release these issues. We have a successful model that we will also share with others. The success that Sweden has had in these matters has strengthened the competitiveness of Swedish farmers. We have a high awareness of this problem. As consumers, we can influence this very much depending on how we choose our food and look at what their origins are. We have the lowest antibiotic use in Sweden throughout the EU, and then it is clear that it affects the use in a positive direction if you choose Swedish products. There is, of course, a need for political action. We have to work on the international plan. The Government's intention is to work much more on the international plan, and it is also clearly stated in the new strategy that we have adopted. I would also like to wish Åsa Coenraads a pleasant summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-592	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked the Minister for the Environment how she intends to act within her remit in order to end the French ban on bisphenol A in food packaging. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has further asked whether the Minister considers that national bans on substances that, according to the EU's expert authorities, do not pose a health risk are also compatible with Swedish chemicals policy. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government does not intend to act against the French ban on bisphenol A. The European Commission has recently presented a proposal for changes to harmonised legislation in this area. The new proposal lowers the limit value for bisphenol A and extends the scope of the MRL in order to protect all consumers from the risks associated with the substance. The use of bisphenol A is extensive and the substance has several health and environmental hazards. Particularly problematic is the fact that the substance has harmful effects on reproductive performance. On the question of how national bans are compatible with Swedish chemicals policy, the answer is that Swedish chemicals policy has long applied a cautious approach to chemicals that are problematic from different angles. Swedish chemicals policy is designed to make a position in the individual case based on the best available science. The government wants a high level of protection against harmful chemicals. In the absence of harmonised legislation, there is some scope for having more far-reaching national rules to, for example, protect people's lives and health if the national rules are proportionate and appropriate. Where there is uncertainty about the risks, Member States may, in certain circumstances, take protective measures before it is fully demonstrated that there is a risk to public health. The use and presence of chemicals in specific food and food contact materials is regulated under food law. The harmonised food law in the EU is risk-based and is based on the European Food Safety Authority (Efsa) assessments. This means that the hazardous properties of a substance are related to the quantities of the substance to which humans are exposed. The legislation is based on scientific knowledge about the risks to people with different substances in food. This is a cornerstone of the whole food legislation that is intended to protect the health of consumers and ensure the free movement of safe and healthy food, and that is something that Sweden supports.
i-2033913ddc33407a-599	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Chemicals policy is essentially EU-wide. I am pleased to hear that. The government's own proposal on chemicals, which we debated in this House yesterday, states that chemicals legislation is now essentially contained in common EU regulations. So it is the government that is saying this. And that's good. At macro level, chemicals policy is moving in the right direction. Many countries are actively working with the REACH Regulation, and Sweden is one of the countries that are part of the Reach up working group that aims to further develop REACH. With common chemicals legislation, we are ensuring that the internal market can function reasonably. That's good. This makes cross-border trade easier. It is unnecessary, for example, that we have different requirements for flame retardants in different countries within the Union, because the Minister knows as well as I do that fire works the same in other countries as in Sweden. It is clear that a Swedish furniture manufacturer should be able to export its chair to Italy without being stopped by national special requirements. It is clear that Swedish companies should be able to sell their products without these obstacles. In addition, it is good for the entire Union's growth and environmental work when Sweden can export environmentally smart solutions to other countries. I have visited several companies in Sweden that work to produce plastics, and it would be sad if this environmental benefit cannot be taken into account in other countries of the Union. Mr President, I would like to Then why did I put this interpellation? Well, the government doesn't seem to see the benefits of a common chemicals legislation. The government's letter 169, Non-toxic everyday life, advocates more of national special requirements and bans, although this hampers the internal market and has little or no environmental benefits. Even if we ban a substance in Sweden, it reaches us. Chemicals rarely care about land borders. The EU is the right level for regulating dangerous substances when global agreements do not reach all the way. It is therefore sad that the government is moving forward with national bans in Sweden and also does not intend to act when other countries introduce national bans. For example, the government wants to ban bisphenol A in two-component epoxy, which is used to reline water pipes. Even though BPA is not released, according to the government's own authority, the Chemicals Inspectorate, even when you flush with hot water. In addition, only 3 000 households have these pipes. At the same time, France is allowed to act disproportionately. I would like to say, clearly and with emphases, that dangerous substances should be restricted. Some of them are to be banned. Children should be protected in particular. However, when European expert authorities such as Efsa establish that the current level of exposure of BPA is harmless for all age groups, national prohibitions are disproportionate.
i-2033913ddc33407a-607	Mr President, I would like to We can begin by stating that the French ban is far-reaching. However, it is primarily the task of the European Commission to act against France, if they consider it justified. It is not Sweden's task to do so, and we do not see that we should take on that task. Sometimes national limitations may be appropriate. The previous government initiated a special restriction on products used by small children, including lids for baby food cans. We too have had more far-reaching measures. Then there has been a new risk assessment from Efsa which shows that this problem does not really exist for any age group. We've been pushing to lower the readings. The Commission has done so. They are now lowering the limit values and widening the scope. I think that's a good idea. My impression is also that Swedish companies have nothing against it. However, we have largely adapted our products because we have had tough rules. It can also be difficult to remove this, for sensitive groups, as small children. There is always uncertainty about scientific assessments. So our position is that we should keep the derogation precisely for the smaller children and push the issue and try to get it into the final document that the Commission will present.
i-2033913ddc33407a-611	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that answer, Minister. What the government says is true. Sweden has been ahead of schedule for a long time with regard to restrictions on dangerous substances. This applies not least to mercury, which we pushed all the way to the Minamata Convention. Sweden has also been a driving force in the EU for the Commission to develop criteria for endocrine disruptors. The Alliance government sued the Commission in June 2014 to get to grips with this. Therefore, Sweden also has a high reputation in such matters. It is a good thing that, when all the other tools are exhausted and the possibilities no longer exist, we can go ahead in order for the EU to introduce certain restrictions. On the other hand, I doubt whether the EU will come forward with further disproportional legislative changes when expert authorities say that this is disproportional. For our Swedish companies, it is crucial to have good conditions for exports. Sweden is a small and export-dependent country. The more we can trade with other countries in the internal market, the better it is. The government says it wants to work for it but still chooses to go forward with its own national special requirements. It is chosen not to act when other countries have disproportional prohibitions. If chemicals legislation is to be legitimate, it needs to be based on science and not on the Green Party wanting to ban more substances that sound dangerous. Then it is reasonable that Sweden, as in all other cases, listens to Efsa, should do so here too. It should also be said that a ban on bisphenol A is not the only comprehensive solution. In many cases the chemical can be replaced by bisphenol B, bisphenol F or bisphenol S. There are a lot of bad cousins in the bisphenol family. Yet the government chooses to focus unilaterally on this, as it has great symbolic value. Instead, we could look at how substances can be treated in groups, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture last year. It is remarkable that the government is leaving evidence-based policies and common EU solutions in favour of national special requirements and more symbolic policies. A ban on bisphenol A is a narrow solution that does not grasp the whole and at the price of the fact that harmonised chemicals legislation – which I have at least seen in the past that the Social Democrats want to protect – is now being eroded. There is therefore reason to consider whether the Swedish chemicals policy is effective, whether it is the best way in which the government can work for a better environment. I can imagine that more effective work than banning bisphenol A in two-component epoxy in water pipes which nevertheless do not emit BPA could be to push for the implementation of the roof directive. That could be pushing ahead within our international cooperation to tackle the situation in the Baltic Sea. It could be working to complete the food strategy by the end of the summer. Why does the government choose to go forward with an inefficient chemicals policy when it is well placed to have a broad basis for evidence-based, common and effective chemicals policy, both in Sweden and in the EU?
i-2033913ddc33407a-622	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by reminding Jesper Skalberg Karlsson that it is food legislation that the packaging is under. That's where they're handled. For a very long time there has been pressure on the packaging industry, both from consumers and from food manufacturers, to reduce the presence of bisphenol A in food packaging. I think the industry has been sensitive to those demands. Not least the Swedish packaging industry has taken it to heart and is known to have a high degree of innovation. They've been well equipped for this. In the Government's letter on a non-toxic everyday life, we describe how chemicals legislation can be strengthened. In the first place, we point to the strengthening of harmonised chemicals legislation. We've been pushing for it, too. But we are also saying that, if there is a reason, we can go further within national legislation. I don't see any obstacles to that. However, we should remember that food law is not a tool for chemicals policy. Food legislation is intended to protect people from the risks of dangerous substances, including naturally dangerous substances, which may be present in food.
i-2033913ddc33407a-626	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that answer, Minister. All essential chemicals legislation is contained in common EU regulations. That's good. With common rules for dangerous substances, we can effectively regulate chemicals that easily move across land borders. At the same time, there is a level playing field for companies across the Union, strengthening the internal market. The government has chosen to deviate from that path. Instead of listening to the EU expert authorities' assessments of hazardous substances, the Green Party bans them. Then there will be more of national special requirements and less scientific support without any major environmental benefits. The fact that Sweden will build barriers to trade through national bans and not act when other countries do is a departure from the effective chemicals policy that many have worked hard to get into place in the EU. It's boring. But that is what happens when you choose to put symbolic politics ahead of results.
i-2033913ddc33407a-630	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I think that the risks of bisphenol A are well addressed in the food sector. When the previous government imposed national restrictions, the state of knowledge was a little different from what it is today. But we in opposition supported you when this was introduced. Then I think we should be a little extra careful, not least if small children come into contact with bisphenol A, and we will push that issue. We'll be able to divorce there, too. Then we'll see how far we get. In addition, substitution substances must not be allowed to create new risks.
i-2033913ddc33407a-634	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me how the anchoring of the food strategy takes place with all the different parties involved in the start-up phase in the so-called dialogue group, what I and the government mean by the food strategy having broad political roots in the parliament and how the government works to achieve it. In addition, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me if I and the government are sticking to the latest announcement that the food strategy should be submitted to the Riksdag before the summer break. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to highlight my view of the anchoring of the food strategy, which is a very important process for the government. The food strategy bill will provide a platform for current and future governments to take decisions from outside. Political long-termness is thus of great importance, and the government has therefore chosen to put the strategy in the form of a bill. The food strategy takes a unique holistic approach to the whole chain by including all stakeholders. The Government has therefore set itself the objective of having broad support from the actors in all stages of the food chain, both at national, regional and local level, but we have also invited parties to talks. The broad anchoring has included both an external dialogue with stakeholders in the food chain but also an internal process. The dialogue group referred to by Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has been a central part of the external anchoring process. My Under-Secretary Elisabeth Backteman has internally led a reference group with representatives from the Riksdag. The Government regularly informs representatives of the Riksdag about the work of the Government. Now that we are reflecting on how the whole process has run, we can see that we could certainly have done even more. However, it is not too late, the anchoring is still ongoing and there is the opportunity to continue working in broad collaboration even in the future, after we have put the strategy on the board of Parliament. I agree with Jonas Gjörtler that the strategy is very important for the whole food chain, far too important for party political disagreement. The government takes it very seriously, and we have been anxious that the anchoring and sharing of information with both external and internal parties have taken place within the legal framework and in accordance with the practice of the Government Office. The government has no ambition to complicate or delay the process. We are solution-oriented and will in the near future complete the foundation with the Riksdag.
i-2033913ddc33407a-640	Mr President, I would like to The food industry is Sweden's fourth largest industry, so it is incredibly important for Sweden as a whole that the industry can function. At the same time, there are many of the jobs, in this industry unlike many others, spread throughout the country and the jobs are largely outside the big cities. Working food production is incredibly important for creating jobs and growth throughout the country, not least in rural areas. The government announced in its 2015 budget proposal that work on a food strategy should be started to take a holistic approach to the whole food chain. We were initially critical of the government's handling in particular for a number of reasons. The Alliance had already set up a competitiveness study for primary production, whose proposals we thought should be implemented urgently and first. Then we were also critical that the government chose to close the Alliance's investment in Matlandet Sweden – where much of what the food strategy is supposed to cover was already included – without there being anything to replace it with. As a result, unfortunately, we have lost valuable and precious time. Having said that, however, I would like to emphasise that we consider it important that a food strategy should now come forward with clear and sharp proposals. Unfortunately, we can see that work on the food strategy has become something of a wakeet, and it has been delayed several times. And as far as the anchoring process is concerned, it leaves a great deal to be desired. The government talks a lot and often about broad political anchoring, while it has been weirdly silent from the government throughout the spring on this issue. The government also talks about the importance of dialogue and anchoring with the relevant industries. At the same time, I get a lot of questions from industry representatives in different parts of the food sector who wonder if we know what is going on, because in the spring, above all, they do not feel that they have been involved at all. The strategy would have been presented from the beginning this winter, but it has been pushed forward and the latest announcement has been that it will come before the summer break that starts after Wednesday. I very much hope that the government has now used all this extra time it has taken to really achieve a strategy that improves the conditions of competition for the whole food chain. Primary production is incredibly important, but there were already a number of ready-made proposals in the Competition Investigation of the Alliance, which came more than a year ago. So I assume that this whole extra year of work in the Government Office means that the corresponding clear proposals for the processing of the food chain have been prepared. This is connected. It does not help that we have farmers who grow peas about companies that Findus closes. And vice versa, it does not help that we have companies that are good at processing Swedish raw materials if Swedish farmers are knocked out because of bad competitive conditions. The whole food chain is connected. While we are on the food strategy, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question related to its content. I assume that the strategy will contain several proposals on how we can simplify rules and improve conditions. An important part of this work is government work, and it is incredibly important that the authorities have a responsive and service-oriented approach to the industry. After all, the Swedish Food Safety Agency received a new Director-General yesterday, and I would like to make sure that the mission and direction of the agency are still in place. Can the Government guarantee that the change in management does not mean a deterioration in the view of how the Swedish Food Administration works towards the industry or when it comes to, for example, the focus on exports?
i-2033913ddc33407a-657	Mr President, I would like to I want to start with what Jonas finished with about the Swedish Food Administration. We haven't changed that mission. On the other hand, we have strengthened the Swedish Food Safety Agency when it comes to exports and added additional funds to both the Swedish Food Safety Agency and the Swedish Agriculture Agency to obtain country approval of facilities. Here the government is very clear that we want to increase our food exports, and we have doubled the support for it. I agree, Jonas, that this is very much about Swedish countryside. It is about primary production, but also about the rural food industry. They're very dependent on each other. In the food and beverage industry in Sweden, 70 per cent of their raw materials come from Swedish primary production. Without working primary production, we will not have a large branch of industry, nor will we have the opposite. They're very dependent on each other. The reason we started work on a food strategy was that we wanted to take a holistic approach that concerns primary production, the large food industry and the small-scale food industry. The food strategy concerns trade, exports and academia so that it can produce new, exciting and interesting foods that we can also bring to the world. The competitiveness investigation is an important part of the food strategy. There are parts in Matlandet Sweden that we can also use in the food strategy. Last night we sent out a 129 - page text, which shows all the details. I also hope that we can have a good process, even though we have taken our time. Democracy sometimes takes time, Jonas, and better late than never. I hope we can have a good process even though we have been late. We are prepared to give the Alliance the time it needs to understand this, and I look forward to your input. When we started the work, we invited the alliance parties to Nalen where this started while presenting the work of the Competitiveness Investigation, and that time Jonas Jacobsson was not Gjörtler's representative. But they had a representative on stage who praised the fact that a national food strategy was finally being developed. He said it was needed.
i-2033913ddc33407a-665	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to agree that a food strategy is needed, and the criticism we had at the initial stage and which I described earlier was partly about other things. It was a bit about the process and how long this takes. But I agree that the crucial point is not the exact date. The strategy has been delayed a few times, so I think it is urgent that it should come soon. Of course, the most important thing is that the content is good. It's absolutely crucial. It is clear that it is important to have a broad political base, but it is actually more important that the strategy is good enough in its content and that it contains clear objectives and sharp proposals on how to improve competitive conditions throughout the chain. You can also turn it around. It will not help if the strategy has broad political support if it fails to solve the challenges facing the food industry in terms of what policies can and must solve. I would therefore like to make it very clear that our view of the food strategy and the possibilities for broad political anchoring of it depend entirely on its content and on the proposals presented by the government. We are concerned that the content will be good, and if we do not think that the government is able to deliver good enough proposals and a good enough strategy, we in the Alliance will do what we can to make it as good as possible. As far as anchoring is concerned, however, I note that the process leaves a great deal to be desired. It is true that at midnight we were given a proposal to take a position on. But today is Friday, and on Wednesday the Parliament closes. It does not give very much time to get to grips with the anchoring if we are to keep to the timetable that the government has set itself. It has been quiet all spring, and I think you could have handled this differently. I must also ask the Government whether he thinks it is reasonable to talk about the fact that there is a broad political base when it has been this quiet throughout the spring. In that case, the anchoring will begin now that we have received a proposal. I would also like to ask whether the Government thinks that the anchoring of, for example, those who are part of the so-called dialogue group has been well managed. The signal I get is that you don't seem to be very happy there either. As I said, it is good that the government is taking a holistic approach here, and it is good if there is a food strategy. We're gonna do what we can to make it better. We will make an effort for it; I promise you that. We have also made constructive input in the process in the past. The Alliance has made proposals, and I assume that the government has tried to incorporate them into the proposal. I am also pleased that the Government is clear about the Food Administration and the new Director-General. I hear a clear message: there are no changes in the mission, but it is fixed as it has looked. The Government also reiterates that the work on exports will be strengthened, and the Government has increased the funding for both the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Board of Agriculture. I have asked here in the past how this follow-up is going, and perhaps there is reason to come back to that. But it is very gratifying to hear that the Government and the Government are clear that there has been no change in the mission. The Swedish Food Authority will therefore continue to have good contact with the industry, dialogue and openness of views and will act constructively. I'm glad.
i-2033913ddc33407a-675	Mr President, I would like to It is in many different ways a unique process that we have conducted with the food strategy. One thing is that we anchor it so very tight. We've been out in the country in six different locations. There have been full houses with professionals, associations, authorities and others who have been involved and made lots of input. We have had an electronic mailbox that has had an enormous amount of input. We have also held industry meetings on several occasions. Those recordings and opportunities to be part of the process have been very unique. They have also resulted in us having several regions working with regional food strategies around the country, which is very positive. It has started a lot of activities around our country. This is essential if we are to strengthen the whole industry. It is also unique that we in this government bring the strategy here to Parliament. There is a big difference between taking a strategy to Parliament and having it in only one government. You have to realize how important this area is. We must be able to gather across party borders and block borders around the important issue of how we are going to deal with food in this country. We are about to break the 10 millionth limit, and it is not that far until we break the 11 millionth limit. There were 240,000 more of us in the world yesterday and there are about the same number today. But we have very low food production in this country. Of course we need to get ahold of this. In fact, food is mainly produced in some countryside somewhere in the world. The question is only on which countryside it should be produced. This government believes that there should be much more food produced in Swedish rural areas. I hope that Jonas Gjörtler shares that view.
i-2033913ddc33407a-678	Mr President, I would like to In the last part, it's easy to agree. The quote to which the Government relates comes, if I have understood correctly, from an LRF member in northern Sweden who at a meeting expressed it that way. Some countryside somewhere will always provide us with food – why not our own? I think these are very wise words. It's a kind of winged word that in one sense captures a lot of what this is all about. I think we fully agree that this is a good grant. Once again, as far as the strategy is concerned, broad anchoring is absolutely essential. But the most important thing is that the content is good. A broad-based approach will not help if it does not meet the high expectations of all those involved. I feel that the Government has a somewhat strange definition of the concept. He says that the strategy is broadly based and describes a process where you have had a lot of meetings in the country and got recordings. I think that is a good thing in itself, but that is not what anchors. After all, anchoring takes place when the sharp proposals are made. It is about making sure that those involved think that the strategy that is put on Parliament's table for decisions and that will hopefully be valid for a long time to come is good and prisoners and tries to solve the challenges that exist. That's what anchoring is. I see that there has been quite a major breach, because industry representatives express frustration that they do not know what is happening. Political roots have not existed at all in the spring, but only today, when there are only a few days left. But as I said, we're gonna do what we can to make this work.
i-2033913ddc33407a-681	Mr President, I would like to The food strategy is very important. I think the proposal we have now sent to the Alliance is a good one. But I am sure, Jonas, that we can make the strategy even better together. It's got to be good. It will be the best for Sweden and the best for the food industry from primary production to industry, export and so on. That is the government's ambition. Things take time; that's how it is in a democracy. Things have to be discussed and tested for good. We have such a system in this country. Opinions need to be made. We shall protect this. I look forward to the job we are going to do with the Alliance representatives to make this strategy even better. Finally, I would like to wish you a pleasant summer, Mr Jonas, as well as the President and the Bureau.
i-2033913ddc33407a-684	Mr President, I would like to Anti Avsan has asked me if I think it is acceptable that it should go three days from the time an individual calls the police about an ongoing crime until the police act. He has also asked where I think a citizen should turn when it is obvious that the police are not acting and there is no help. Furthermore, he wonders whether I think it is reasonable that the monitoring of major events, such as Eurovision Song Contest, means that the police do not have the means to pull out to intervene against ongoing crime. Finally, Anti Avsan wants to know whether I intend to take action – and if so, what – so that a similar situation does not arise again. It is a fundamental task of the Police Authority to maintain public order and security and to provide protection and other assistance to the public. This also means that intervention must be possible within a reasonable period of time. Generally speaking, it is not acceptable that it takes several days for the police to intervene against ongoing crime and disorder of order. At the same time, it must be up to the Authority to make the tactical assessments of how and when to act in order to achieve success in an individual case. The presence of unauthorised settlements in the form of tent and caravan camps on private or public land has increased significantly in Sweden in recent years. In order to be able to act more actively and coherently against unauthorised settlements, the Police Authority has developed internal recommendations and implemented information campaigns aimed at external personnel. At the same time, the Minister of Justice has examined how the possibilities for landowners to be helped to remove illegal settlements can be improved. The assignment was presented on 26 May this year, and the proposals are now being consulted. In order to provide the Police Authority with good conditions for carrying out its mission, the Government has proposed to the Riksdag in the 2016 spring amending budget that the Swedish Police Authority's funding this year should increase by SEK 283 million. According to the budget base submitted by the Police Authority to the Government in February, the Authority estimates that the number of police employees needs to be increased in the longer term. The Government intends to closely monitor the development of the Political Authority's ability to fulfil its mission.
i-2033913ddc33407a-688	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. In a legal society, which is a secure society that holds together, one of the foundations is a judicial system that acts against crime and violations of people's privacy and property. In a legal society, crime can never be tolerated. The judiciary must be strong and have the confidence of its citizens, and the police must never give in, nor should they fail to intervene when crimes are committed or when someone's property, as in this case, is illegally occupied by others. However, according to Aftonbladet, this was exactly what happened during a few days in May when a farmer in Sollentuna saw his farm invaded and taken by about a hundred people. The people settled down with their caravans and reportedly committed a number of illegal acts. Among other things, the actions consisted of – in common terms – vandalism and threats. This is, of course, unacceptable. Reportedly, it took three days before the police reacted and arrived at the scene. The explanation given to the victim was that the police in Stockholm during that time had been very hard strained, partly because much time and effort had been spent watching the final of the Eurovision Song Contest, which was arranged at the time. The fact that the Swedish police are under severe strain and face major challenges in the future has been clear for a long time. Sometimes – or rather relatively often – it is also the case that large arrangements require extra security from the police. This is particularly clear in Stockholm. On the other hand, it is totally unacceptable for police resources to be eroded or used so as not to be able to intervene against current crimes. It weakens confidence in the justice system as a whole, and in particular in the police, and means that individuals are being squeezed. In this case, as I have mentioned, it was a matter of a situation in which an individual citizen reported an ongoing crime. However, reportedly the police chose not to intervene or even go to the scene to assess the situation. This should also be related to the fact that we often get information that individuals and traders around the country refrain from reporting crimes because they find it hopeless to turn to the police. The picture also includes the view that a police report does not lead to any result in the form of police action. We Moderates believe that people in Sweden must be able to trust that the police come and intervene against ongoing crimes. It is a very basic condition for citizens to feel safe. Waiting for three days for the police to react to an ongoing crime is totally unacceptable. During the alliance government, major efforts were made to increase the number of police officers. Population growth and social development mean that even more police officers are now needed to investigate and combat crime, as well as changes in the police's attitudes and attitudes to their work – and this may be mainly at a structural level. The first sentence of what is the actual answer from the Minister for the Interior is a rewrite of Section 1 of the Police Act and is about how it should be on an overall level. The reason for my interpellation, however, is how it is in reality here and now and in a variety of places throughout Sweden. I, for my part, also think that the Minister for the Interior's answer to what is the real horizontal question in my interpellation is indeed a sub-state: I left the floor out because we are talking about ongoing crime.
i-2033913ddc33407a-698	Mr President, I would like to I broadly share the views of Anti Avsan. I have also stated in my reply the measures taken by the government: we have increased the police budget for this year, we are now spending more money on the police than has ever been done under an alliance government and we have new instructions for the police to evict people who have illegally settled on other people's land. We have moved on and made this even easier with the investigation set up by the Minister of Justice. During this autumn's budget process, we will prepare the requests from the police for additional resources.
i-2033913ddc33407a-700	Mr President, I would like to Reference is made to the efforts the government is said to make on the police. Then the question is straight away: why do you say no to keeping the target of at least 20 000 police officers in Sweden? It is also about what we Moderates and the other alliance parties have proposed, namely 2 000 additional police officers who will primarily work in particularly vulnerable areas, in exclusion areas and in sparsely populated areas. In the reply, the Minister for Home Affairs refers to the fact that it must be up to the Police Authority to make the tactical assessments of how and when to act in order to achieve success in an individual case. Then the natural follow-up question is: Can the Minister of the Interior give examples of tactical assessments that make it possible to wait three days to intervene in a case like my example? I would like to emphasise that this is not about the problem of illegal settlements, but about the conditions for the police's basic functions in a legal society. The SEK 283 million that is the government's investment in the police cannot be a solution to the police's problems in the broader sense. Nevertheless, the money is intended to meet the refugee crisis and to some extent to invest in civilian workers. It has also been stated that 33 million are related to what is called return work, and it also mentions hate crimes in this context. The debate today is essentially not about the money itself, but about how the police do their work. It is also linked to the responsibility the government takes for the reorganisation of the police and the ability to achieve good employee results within the police. This is something I have also raised in a previous interpellation debate with the Minister for the Interior. I have pointed out then that the new police organisation must be seen only as a first step towards changing and improving the police's ability to achieve good results. Regardless of organisational and regulatory conditions for the police's work, attitudes, or in other words the approach, to the tasks will always be crucial to the outcome. In short, it is about what the police should do and how to do it. Should the police give priority to what is really the basic functions of the police, which I consider to be, firstly, a functioning emergency service, so that people in emergency situations can be helped, and secondly, a functioning investigation activity, so that people who have been victims of crime can come to their own? If these basic functions were to be valued and given a higher priority, it would ultimately also give an impression on the type of tasks that will be career-promoting in the police. That, in turn, would also affect attitudes. Another very important and completely elementary prerequisite for police performance is how police leadership in the future is designed and how it should be exercised. It's very important. I would also like to point out that the current Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, on several occasions in opposition, criticised the police's lack of efficiency. When the Alliance government put forward legislative proposals on a number of occasions, the response of the Social Democrats was often that the resolution of crime should instead be improved. Then I wonder: how has the Minister of the Interior dealt with this issue? How to ensure that the resolution of crimes, which in my opinion is the second of the police's basic functions, is improved?
i-2033913ddc33407a-709	Mr President, I would like to I believe that there is a fundamental difference between the government and the moderate opposition in the view of who is best placed to set priorities based on local crime and the situation. The government believes that the police must be allowed to be police officers and that it is the police who should make the assessment and the priority. The Moderates, on the other hand, made proposals in this House for 17 different types of crime to be prioritised, but there were no proposals for a single type of crime to be prioritised. That is not a priority at all. Now Anti Avsan stands in the speaker's chair and lists various priorities, while nothing should be prioritised. That's not good enough as a way to control the Swedish police. We've left the stick hunt you conducted behind us. We're introducing new steering models, and the base for that is that the police should be allowed to be police. We believe in the police profession and professional role, and we believe in the ability and ability to formulate problems and priorities for the work together with the local community. Then Anti Avsan asks why we oppose the moderate demand to set a target of 20 000 police officers in Sweden. The answer to that question is that on 1 May this year we had 20 310 police officers in Sweden, so a target of 20,000 police officers is hardly a particularly impressive ambition.
i-2033913ddc33407a-712	Mr President, I would like to I think we fully agree that the police should make the priorities. They should, of course, be done in what the police themselves call the minute operation. I guess I haven't stood here today and told you which crimes to prioritise. On the other hand, the priorities have an impact on the police's working conditions. There have been some reviews of what it looks like today. In Aftonbladet's review, which has the heading, and the crisis in the police, police say, for example: People are calling about ongoing crimes, but we can't come. The problems are nationwide, according to the audit. It happens every day that the police don't report crimes. Violation of the knife law is a priority that has to be removed. It is even claimed that drugs are poured into street wells. Someone says the Crime Department is kneeling down and typifying matters as less serious crimes. Another says: Keep in mind that the toilet is not far away if you happen to find a seizure of drugs. So someone says again: People are calling about ongoing crimes, but we can't come. Another says that the whole system leaks like a sieve on the way to court: If we don't shut down, it's the prosecutors. Also on the front is a representative from the Police Federation who says: "Policemen have been advised not to stop the addict on the stolen bike when they start a shift. If just any of this is true, I think it is bad. This is not about what you say, but about what you actually want to change and improve. It's about the employees in the police. I think every cop can do a good job if you give them good conditions. This is what it is all about. Finally, I would like to wish the Minister of the Interior a pleasant summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-718	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I will be careful to ask questions when Anti Avsan cannot answer. However, one can note that there is a contradiction when Anti Avsan says that it is the police that should prioritise while he has put forward in this House proposals for 17 different types of crime to be prioritised without proposing that any single type of crime should be given priority. Of course, we are met with some disturbing images in the media, as Anti Avsan expressed. One should be honest and say that we also encounter some such disturbing pictures when we meet police officers. I know that Anti Avsan and other members of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice have been around in all police regions and have received both alarming and positive signals. I think this boils down to the fact that our police have had tools that have been quite poorly adapted to the problem picture. There is a small group of criminals who account for a very large proportion of crime, and sanctions and effects are not really adapted to them. This makes the day-to-day working situation of the police quite untenable. You feel that you do about the same thing every day and feel that you are doing no good. We must take a completely different approach there. I plan to come back to the House in a different order on what the grip should be. The second is, of course, that the police have been under enormous pressure over the past year. We've had the first border control in 22 years. We have had the greatest asylum pressure ever, more than twice as much as before, and we have had an increased threat of terrorism. Of course, this has put a great deal of strain on the police organization. Even if we spend more money than ever on the police, the individual policeman has experienced his own work situation as frustrating, and at times he has felt inadequate. We must take this seriously when we receive Statskontoret's evaluation of police reform this autumn and see what we can do to improve leadership and organisation within the police. Finally, happy summer!
i-2033913ddc33407a-722	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me whether the work on identifying the problem of black driving schools has begun and what the survey contains, or what it could contain if it has not yet begun, and what measures I have taken to find, in cooperation with the authorities and industry representatives, appropriate measures to overcome the black traffic schools. In order to operate a traffic school, a licence is required, which is regulated by the Act on Traffic Schools. The Swedish Transport Agency is responsible for the supervision of authorised companies. Exercise driving requires that the student has a driving licence, and an approved supervisor is also required to hold a wrist permit. If you want to be a supervisor, you must have completed an education together with the student with whom the supervisor must practice. It is often illegal practice driving. In 2012, the rules for how many students a supervisor may have were changed to a maximum of 15 pupils. This was done with the aim of countering illegal practice driving. The industry and the Swedish Transport Agency have received signals that the change has not had the impact that it was expected to have. The Swedish Transport Agency therefore plans to carry out an evaluation of the change of regulation. With regard to a more precise identification of criminal activities, the police have the main task of carrying this out, and today the Swedish Transport Agency has a dialogue with the Police, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority on issues related to illegal traffic school activities or illegal exercise driving. A good way to combat black driving schooling is to make it easy for the industry to comply with the rules, which benefits those companies that do the right thing while at the same time counteracting black business. Therefore, in 2015 the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to analyse the regulation of transport schools and trainers and propose constitutional changes with a view to achieving simple and effective rules for access and supervision of operations. The government mission has been carried out in cooperation with industry organisations. The work has resulted in concrete proposals from the Swedish Transport Agency for regulatory changes that facilitate companies in the industry through regulatory simplifications. Together with the industry, the Swedish Transport Agency is now moving forward to develop better opportunities to work with self-control. The assignment's final report has been submitted for consultation, and the matter is now being further prepared within the Government Office. The government considers fair competition to be a very important issue regardless of the industry. Companies that do right themselves should not be out-competed by those who do not comply with laws and regulations. Good driver training is important in order to provide future drivers with the necessary skills to drive safely. It is in the broad perspective of zero vision.
i-2033913ddc33407a-728	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I find it shocking that the Minister says that what is called illegal driving schooling is often illegal practice driving. It is a gross understatement and a trivialization of the problem. Recently, the media have drawn attention to the extent of so-called black driving schools. Recently, the Gothenburg Post revealed how easy it is to depart from the maximum limit of 15 permits per supervisor. SVT showed a program on the subject. And the New Kristinehamns-Posten wrote about black choir schools in Värmland and the surrounding area. Illegal driving schools are well organized and have double-commanded cars. They distribute the right answers to the theory test questions in the languages of the whole world and market themselves in social media. Yet the Minister chooses to see this as an illegal exercise. That is, to say the least, upsetting. Unfortunately, the Minister is not alone in this. When we Moderates in the Transport Committee's report on road safety demanded a push against illegal driving schools, the answer was from the majority: the Transport Agency has taken steps to curb traffic school activities that are conducted without permission. What measures are these? And how effective are these measures? There are two questions to which I would like answers today. Yes, it is a step in the right direction that the Swedish Transport Agency plans to make an evaluation of the limitation of the number of permits to 15. But 15 is far too many. In Finland, the number of permits for private exercise is three, in three years. I share the Minister's view that it is positive that the Swedish Transport Agency cooperates with the police, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority to curb illegal driving school activities. Illegal driving school activities have many dimensions that affect the work areas of these authorities. Black choir schools are parasitic on society. They do not pay employers' contributions, VAT, F-tax, regulatory fees to the Swedish Transport Agency or any other taxes and charges. Worse still, they lack insurance. They deceive young people and put them in danger. Worst case scenario, they risk their lives. It is true that the Minister writes that it is the police's job to identify criminal activities. Unfortunately, black driving schools are not a priority area for the police. There is a lack of resources. The penalty is low, and extensive evidence is required. The risk of being stopped on the road by a controlling traffic police is minimal, not least given how the government has reduced the number of traffic police. Of course, police investigations into black driving schools have led to prosecutions. It has even happened that prosecutions have led to convictions, but the penalties have been very small and have had no deterrent effect.
i-2033913ddc33407a-734	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg and I are very much in agreement about the seriousness of the existence of black choir schools. My intention was not to ignore or reduce the problem by pointing out that this is illegal practice driving. It is a question of exceeding the number of people for whom you have the right to be a supervisor. As a result, it is an illegal practice driving operation. It is no more or less serious than that it is also illegal driving school activities. I find it hard to understand the upset in that part. Then the problem with this kind of criminal activity is that it is difficult to identify something that is by its nature hidden. It is always easier to map things when you can request data and quickly get a picture of what something looks like. This is an activity which, for obvious reasons, is in a grey area or a black zone. Of course, those who take advantage of these driving schools have very little interest in reporting them, and they can be difficult to detect because it is not an obvious activity. I hope that the measures now being prepared within the Government Office will be such that they will make it easier to access this type of activity. When the Swedish Transport Agency happens to be involved in this type of activity, it first and foremost contacts the company and gives it the opportunity to apply for a permit. If it doesn't happen, it's a habit to press charges. However, the Swedish Transport Agency has neither the powers nor the resources to supervise an illegal activity. The Swedish Transport Agency has a mandate and a mandate to supervise the activities that are licensed but not illegal – it is a police matter. Since 2012, the number of students that a supervisor can have is 15. It was the previous government that decided on it. In any case, it may be suspected that this change has had the opposite effect. Earlier, when a supervisor could have a larger number of students, one could rather easily identify those who might have 40 or 50 students. It was quite easy to find them and ask follow-up questions about whether it was a business activity that did not comply with the rules that existed. With the limit to 15, one might suspect that it has actually become more difficult to detect them. Before you go further and say that you should limit the number further, I think you should assess the risk that there will be an activity that goes even further below the radar but does not decrease. Then we haven't won much. The government has a strong focus on reducing tax evasion and ensuring that we have fair conditions of competition between different companies. It is about ensuring that the state receives the income that we need. It is also a question of serious companies not being put at a competitive disadvantage in relation to those who deliberately violate laws and regulations. We will continue this work in many different sectors. This is, of course, one of those.
i-2033913ddc33407a-739	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's important to call things their real names. Illegal and criminal activities are illegal and criminal. It also has an educational value when addressed to those who buy these services, so that they know that they are doing something that is not good and that they are breaking the law. Undeniably, it is a problem that black driving schools do not fall under any real responsibility for supervision. It is true that the Swedish Transport Agency only supervises the registered activities. The Minister says in his answer: A good way to combat black driving schooling is to make it easy for the industry to comply with the rules, which benefits the companies that do the right thing while at the same time counteracting black business. Does the minister mean that those who cheat do it because the rules are too complicated? I am, of course, in favour of all forms of regulatory simplification for companies, but simplified rules do not interfere with the growing business of black driving schools. The scale of illegal driving school activities has many nuances, ranging from unlicensed private individuals to those engaged in training in business-like activities – in their own premises and with dual-command cars – without having traffic school permits or any other permits. In the middle there are business activities that have all the necessary permits but cheat with tax and VAT. Those who run black driving schools do so deliberately, not because they do not understand the rules or because these rules are complicated. It's a dangerous culture that's spreading. Unfortunately, these activities are carried out by and are aimed primarily at people who come from other countries where they do not have the same traditions of paying taxes. It is extremely unfortunate that the first thing that happens when you come to Sweden is that you are drawn into different types of illegal and black activities, either as a customer or as a performer. It gives these people a completely wrong picture of how our society works, and they risk ending up in a wrong and often destructive situation that is very difficult to get out of. It may be simpler, faster and cheaper, but it is morally reprehensible and undermines the trust in the society of those who contribute tax revenue. It's one side. The second is, of course, the dangers on our roads: what happens when people without knowledge and education go out and practice driving or driving, if they are likely to get a driving licence? How many lives are at stake? It is particularly tragic that young people are being fooled. They are fooled by both money and security when they hire a black driving school and it turns out that the lessons have been so inadequate that they cannot handle the driving. Then the money that has been saved for a long time is also gone.
i-2033913ddc33407a-746	Mr President, I would like to I think we can begin by stating that there is a reason why we have regulated how exercise driving and traffic school operations in Sweden should be conducted. The fact that private practice driving with someone requires both training and permission and that special permits are required for driving school activities is because we have a tradition in Sweden of putting road safety very high. It is also about order and order in the labour market with taxes and other legislation, but also about such things as Boriana Åberg mentioned in her previous speech: insurance, liability to the customer and so on. There are many good reasons why we have a regulated business here. Of course, it is extremely serious companies that suffer from unfair competition, but also, as Boriana Åberg says, those who hire these black driving school companies. They are, of course, in danger of having poor and inadequate training, which makes it more difficult for them to manage their driving. They also contribute to the continuation of this type of activity. So there is good reason to combat this activity. Unfortunately, there are no easy answers to this type of crime. What we know has worked in other industries is when, for example, the Tax Agency, the Police and, for example, the Swedish Work Environment Authority are making coordinated efforts. Therefore, I think it is important that the Swedish Transport Agency now has a developed collaboration with other authorities to see how this activity can be accessed. I also do not think that most driving schools are run in the form that the regulations are complicated. On the other hand, I believe that if the regulations are made simpler and therefore perhaps cheaper for the serious driving schools, the price difference compared to the black driving schools will also decrease, making it more attractive to choose the serious driving schools. They are better placed to operate efficiently. So in that part I think there is a connection. Of course, we want those who run driving school to have good conditions to do so cost-effectively. We should have clear rules that help to maintain road safety, but we should not make it complicated unnecessarily. That is why this review of the rules is also important. I also look forward to seeing the results of the Swedish Transport Agency's evaluation of the limitation of the number of driving licences eventually. However, it is important to emphasise that this is an illegal activity, a criminal activity, and it is therefore a police matter. If you find out or hear rumors that this type of activity is taking place, it is the police report that is the right thing to do. It is not possible to get to grips with this simply by improving the regulatory framework. The rules are there; yet there are those who choose to break them. That is why the risk of detection is, of course, also an important issue.
i-2033913ddc33407a-753	Mr President, I would like to I note that I and the Minister agree on the importance of good driving licence training, the right conditions for companies, fair competition and continued high safety on our roads. Now it is the Minister who has the power in his hand and can ensure that all these wishes are realised. I might venture to give the Minister some tips, for example, to limit the number of exercise driving permits to about five or less, to prohibit individuals from registering as owners of dual-command cars and, of course, to do a review of the entire business. Summer's here. Many students have left school and have started to practice driving and looking at the freedom that a driving licence gives. It is our job to ensure that this is done in a safe and sound manner. I also want the island to the minister a nice summer.
i-2033913ddc33407a-757	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Boriana Åberg! I believe, as I said, that we agree on the importance of minimising the risk of this type of activity continuing. However, I think that before moving forward with a sharp proposal to reduce the number of supervisors to five, for example, one should probably also consider the risk that it further increases the risk of dark numbers, because when you cannot register more than five, there is a risk that even more people will have more, but it becomes even more difficult to detect them in the registers. There may also be fully legitimate so-called "to have 10 to 13 supervisors at the same time". For example, it may be in a sparsely populated part of the country where it is far to the nearest driving school. It may be that the existing driving schools cannot offer driving school activities in different languages. I therefore believe that the consequences of introducing regulatory changes should be properly investigated. The basic problem here, I maintain, is not that there are shortcomings in the regulatory framework. The basic problem is that, although there is a good, clear and very powerful regulatory framework, people choose to break these rules. It is therefore also important for the police to be aware of this type of activity and also to be able to investigate these crimes. As I said, these were crimes of low punitive value and often difficult evidence. This is an area that we continue to work on, and I look forward to the continued work of the Swedish Transport Agency on it. I also wish Boriana Åberg a nice summer!
i-2033913ddc33407a-764	Mr President, I would like to Hans Linde has asked me how I intend to increase the proportion of the Swedish aid budget that goes to SRHR and what initiatives I intend to take in order for Sida and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to develop better follow-up systems for Swedish SRHR assistance. I would first like to stress that I fully agree with Mr Linde's view on the importance of the SRHR for human rights, gender equality and social and economic development. The SRHR is, and will continue to be, a high priority for the government and a central part of our feminist foreign and development policy. The government's strong political support for gender equality and the SRHR is also translated into a clear political will to deploy the necessary resources. Sweden is already a major donor to SRHR globally. Around 7% of the aid activities go to the SRHR. This is a high figure, even in international comparison. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, just as the SRHR is linked to other policy areas, other policy areas are linked to the S RHR. An improved justice system and an expanded education and health system also enhances sexual and reproductive health and rights. Basic social functions and institutions are a prerequisite for effective SRHR interventions. The government has protected SRHR in particular in a difficult budgetary situation. Nuclear aid to the UN Population Fund, UNFPA, has been increased and nuclear aid to UNAIDS has been safeguarded. These two are the organisations within the UN system whose entire activities are devoted to the SRHR, unlike the Global Fund, which also devotes its activities to tuberculosis and malaria. The government's support to the Global Fund continues to be very large. In 2016, SEK 550 million was allocated. A total of SEK 2.2 billion has been allocated to the Global Fund between 2014 and 2016, which is an increase of SEK 200 million from the previous period. Sweden is today the second largest single donor to both UNFPA and UNAIDS, which underlines the importance the government attaches to these issues. In the regulation letter to Sida 2016, the Government commissioned Sida to protect SRHR operations in particular within the framework of current strategies or equivalent. This has meant, among other things, maintaining the volume of support for SRHR actions in the context of the global strategy for social sustainable development. The government has also decided to include SRHR as a performance area in three new country strategies that previously did not contain SRHR. These are the strategies for Mo ç ambique, Liberia and Ethiopia. This is a clear steering signal from the government to Sida, which in the long term will mean increased volumes for sexual and reproductive health and rights. The budget line for support to organisations in Swedish civil society was also protected in the 2016 budget. No reductions in the appropriations have been made between 2015 and 2016. The Government intends to return to SRHR support within the framework of the 2017 budget. Sweden is also an active driver for the European Commission and other donors to increase their support to SRHR. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has in collaboration with Sida since 2011 produced detailed statistics on Sweden's support for health and SRHR. The statistics are produced according to the same methodology every year to allow for follow-up and comparison over time. The report is based on the statistics Sida and the Government Office report to OECD-Dac. As with all statistical reporting, there are also challenges with regard to SRHR statistics. SRHR is a broad area of activity that includes issues related to human rights, gender equality, health and democracy. One consequence of this is that some SRHR actions are classified as gender equality or democracy initiatives and are thus made invisible in SRHR statistics. We therefore know that Swedish support for SRHR is greater than the OECD-Dac statistics show. To remedy this, Sida has begun to review the possibility of inserting a special marker to find all efforts related to SRHR. I can assure Mr Linde that Sweden will continue to be one of the countries most strongly standing up for the SRHR.
i-9wCiA9NNMdVuBNVHVuk7cq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Isabella Lövin, for the answer! We can start by stating that we have learned from our own history here in Sweden the importance of investing in sexual and reproductive health and rights. When my grandmother was born in 1926, Sweden had a ban on both contraception and abortion. We also had maternal mortality at a level that corresponds to what we are seeing today in Rwanda. When my mother was born in 1953, contraception was finally allowed and sex education was started. However, we were still banned from abortion, and we had maternal mortality at a level similar to that seen today in Nicaragua. When I was born in 1979, abortion was finally legalized and the first youth clinics started, and when I was eight months old, homosexuality was stopped as an illness. Maternal mortality was at a level that corresponds to what we are seeing today in Lithuania. We in Sweden have learned the hard way that sexual and reproductive health and rights are fundamental human rights. We have also seen that efforts in this area – if you do the right things – lead to gender equality, economic development and democratisation. Unfortunately, too many countries on earth have not yet made the journey that we in Sweden have made. Every two minutes a woman or a girl in the world dies because of a pregnancy. Every 12 minutes a woman or a girl dies because of an insecure illegal abortion. We see that abortion bans, bans on contraception and limited sex education, which were once a huge obstacle to development in our country, are today destroying the conditions for development in Nicaragua, Egypt and Sierra Leone. Needs are great and obvious. At the same time, Sweden is a country where we have the political courage and broad support in the Swedish Parliament to work with SRHR. We also have experience and competence in these matters. Unfortunately, looking out over the world, we can see that we are far too alone to have those conditions. It is therefore difficult to see any other policy area where we have greater added value internationally than sexual and reproductive health and rights. I therefore think it is important that Isabella Lövin is so clear today that this is a high priority issue and says that the government's strong political support for gender equality and the SRHR is translated into a clear political will to devote the necessary resources. I welcome the fact that the SRHR is being highlighted in the new country strategies that have been mentioned. I also welcome the fact that the government is so clearly highlighting the SRHR, for example at the recent World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul. I have now discussed issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights in Swedish aid with three development ministers – first Gunilla Carlsson, then Hillevi Engström and now Isabella Lövin. I have had the same reason during all these debates to welcome the strong commitment of the ministers and the promises they have made. But I have also had to ask the same questions: Where is the money? When are the bets coming? When does the commitment begin to appear in the budget? Although we have now had three ministers in a row who have given dedicated talks about SRHR, we do not see that the share of the Swedish aid budget going to SRHR is increasing. On the contrary, we see that over the last ten years the level has been between 6 and 7%, constant over time. This shows a problem: although we hear and see this commitment, we are now below the level of aid to the SRHR that Sweden had in 2006, that is, ten years ago. At that time it was 8 percent. Therefore, I would like to ask Isabella Lövin: Is the Government satisfied with the 7% level? Is it a good level for the share of Swedish aid going to SRHR? Or is it the Government's ambition for Sweden to increase the share of sexual and reproductive health and rights in the coming years?
i-2033913ddc33407a-784	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Linde. We certainly share the analysis of the importance of sexual and reproductive health and rights as a basis for the development of, not least, women's but also whole families. Developments in this area have also enabled women to participate more in economic life, to gain power over their own situation, to go on in education and thus to lay the foundations for better opportunities in the life of their children and their entire family. We see that major challenges remain, not least in Africa, with regard to the number of children born that are not necessarily planned. Child marriage and the fact that girls are forced into maternity at a very early age is a major obstacle to development. As far as our support specifically to the SRHR is concerned, what I said in my reply is linked to a great many efforts that strengthen the SRHR but do not necessarily classify it as SRHR because it can also be about gender equality, education and strengthening the judiciary so that women get help when they have been subjected to sexual violence. It can be about strengthening civil society, which also works for women's rights, so that it can drive politics and development in the countries concerned. We have now commissioned Sida to develop a new marker, so that we can more clearly track how much of Swedish aid actually goes to SRHR operations. It is also something that we intend to pursue within the OECD-Dac circle. There is not really comparability there, because there are no reports of SRHR. By having a special marker there, we could also pressure other donors to deliver better in these contexts. Sweden is also, unlike other donors, a donor who dares to go into the more controversial contexts when it comes to LGBTQ people's rights and when it comes to the right to abortion. There you can see a qualitative difference between how Sweden and how some other donors act in these contexts. They may concentrate more on pure maternal care or possibly on contraception and counselling. We have, however, given priority to safeguarding the SRHR issues under very difficult budgetary conditions last year. We have increased our support for, among others, UN Women, which is fully systemic in these matters. We still have our support for UNAIDS. We have also protected the UNDP, which is the organisation that can actually carry out these efforts on the ground and is fully responsible for the UN system. We have also introduced the SRHR in three new country strategies and adopted a new regional strategy for sub-Saharan Africa, fully focused on the SRHR. We are therefore giving priority to this. I cannot say that I am satisfied with 7%, but we also need to look more closely at the whole.
i-2033913ddc33407a-792	Mr President, I would like to I still take note of the last thing Isabella Lövin said, that you are still not really satisfied with 7% but want to increase this a little bit more. I think that is a welcome message. Two years ago, 260 parliamentarians from 134 countries gathered in this very Chamber for the so-called IPCI conference, which dealt with maternal mortality, population issues and sexual and reproductive health and rights. At that time, a very clear call was made for the countries of the world to devote at least 10% of their aid budgets to sexual and reproductive health and rights. It would be nice if Sweden, which hosted this conference, could also live up to this commitment. I would like to hear from Isabella Lövin that it is prepared to set a target of at least 10% of Swedish aid going to SRHR. It is clear that these questions about markers and follow-up may not sound like the most exciting ones. But they are important and central, because they are about accountability and that I, as a elected MP of Swedish voters, and our partners in other parts of the world, should be able to demand responsibility from the Swedish Government. Then there must be transparency and statistics. Unfortunately, this has broken. It has been difficult to get information about how much of the Swedish budget goes to SRHR. I would really like to emphasise the importance of this so that we can safeguard transparency and accountability. I have today and previously praised Isabella Lövin's commitment to sexual and reproductive health and rights. That is precisely why I have also been a little disappointed over the past year by some of the choices and priorities made by the government. The Global Fund is one of those things. The government chose to make a decision in December to reduce the global fund's funding by 300 million. A contract was broken and reduced by 35 percent. This reduction corresponds to the cost of giving 100 000 people living with HIV life-saving medication and treatment. Unfortunately, this is not the only example of the fact that SRHR interventions have actually been removed. IPPF, International Planned Parenthood Federation, which works in 170 countries and usually with the most vulnerable groups and with the most controversial SRHR issues this year receives a reduction of its support from Sweden. Of course, it affects their activities. Earlier this spring, Sida announced that it will cut support for framework organisations by an average of just over 7 per cent. It will also affect a number of Swedish NGOs working internationally on these issues. The support from Sida to organisation is being withdrawn as Kvinna till Kvinna, RFSU and Diakonia. This will of course affect Sweden's work on the SRHR issues. It is sometimes said that politics is to want. But it is also about choosing and setting priorities. I think there would have been an opportunity for this government to make other priorities if it had been serious about protecting the SRHR. I would also like to highlight another issue because I not only want to look back but also look forward to how we can reinforce this work. We see that the major challenges that are now on our common table – both for me and for Isabella Lövin – are to deal with the major humanitarian crises created by failing states, climate change and armed conflicts. We know that the people who are now fleeing—they are more than ever since the Second World War—not just need blankets, tents and food packages. They also need contraception, sex education, maternal care, and safe abortions. We know that the link between maternal mortality and armed conflict is clear. The Netherlands has made clear commitments to support UNFPA's work on humanitarian disasters. I know that IPPF has turned to Sweden for help in its work in humanitarian crises. Is this something that the Swedish Government is prepared to heed?
i-2033913ddc33407a-802	Mr President, I would like to Let me first stress that I find it difficult to see that we could have made other priorities last year. We protected SRHR operations clearly. The reductions that Hans Linde refers to and that Sida did last year are based on a misunderstanding that I am very happy to sort out. Sida received unusually large repayments in 2014 and was therefore able to pay out a total of SEK 92 million under existing agreements to a number of framework organisations in December 2014. So this was from a saving of funds, and if we had not distributed it, it would not have benefited any organisations at all. On the other hand, the repayments in 2015 were exceptionally small. It was a very difficult financial year, as we all remember, which did not allow the corresponding amount to be transferred to 2016. What is now perceived as a cut is in fact an additional allocation that was in addition to grants that would otherwise have gone to the organisations working on, among other things, SRHR issues. So this is based on a misunderstanding. As Mr Linde knows, we protected the SRHR efforts in an extremely tight budgetary situation. We had to make some tough priorities. As far as the Global Fund is concerned, we are still an extremely large donor. The Global Fund against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria remains, on its own, one of the largest expenditure items in Swedish aid. It was about 800 miles, and we cut a year down to half a billion. 800 million is what we are giving to our largest aid country, Afghanistan. We are therefore still a huge donor to the Global Fund. But it is also important to remember that the Global Fund has no work on the ground. It's a fund. We therefore felt that it was much more important to protect the partners who have the potential to perform on the ground, i.e. the partners that exist at country level. Then we have Unaids. We also have UNDP, UN Women and WHO, which are system-bearing and where the effects would be so much greater if we withdrew. We have really had a tough situation when we have had to make a priority. Within this framework, we have really protected the SRHR with regard to the Global Fund. When it comes to efforts for social and sustainable development, it is SRHR that has been protected by Sida according to the Government's instructions. So the priority remains. It is also important to see what is what. Educational activities that help young people to attend school also prevent teenage pregnancies. And if we invest in health systems, it is a prerequisite for helping with contraception or maternal care to be delivered. If we help civil society or legal institutions, we also help women who have been victims of sexual abuse or the like. Finally, on the humanitarian issue, it is an important aspect, which we also raised at the humanitarian summit, that women are extremely vulnerable in refugee situations. Sweden already prioritises this work and will continue to do so, also by convincing other donors and by working at system level to get organisations to recognise and prioritise the work.
i-2033913ddc33407a-811	Mr President, I would like to I'll take up a few different things. Misunderstanding or not in relation to framework organisations – the fact remains that we have a number of framework organisations which are currently involved in their activities and are forced to cut it or postpone various actions. They are forced to send negative messages to their southern partners. It is clear that it will affect our work this year and the coming years in terms of sexual and reproductive health around the world. When it comes to the Global Fund, I make a different priority than Isabella Lövin. But if we look ahead, I now also know that the government will sit down and negotiate a new agreement with the Global Fund for a future three-year period. I very much hope that the government is prepared to maintain a strong commitment to the Global Fund and that a new three-year agreement with a high level of ambition can be concluded. Finally, I will address humanitarian efforts, because I think it is one of the perhaps most important issues at the moment. We see that Sweden is increasing its humanitarian aid significantly, and that is very welcome. But it is important not to forget the work on sexual and reproductive health and rights in that work. In December, I visited a refugee camp in Jordan, the Azraq camp. It described how many desperate parents marry their daughters at the age of 13, 14 or 15 because they believe that this is the only way to maintain their safety. When I visited the refugee camp, the UN described how it had to close the camp hospital because it lacked funding. There was no way to offer maternal care to the pregnant women and girls of the camp. It shows why these issues are important also in the context of humanitarian work, and unfortunately far too few donors are prepared to go in. We saw earlier that Australia was in and financed much of the IPPF's work in Syria, for example, but that it has now cut its support. It is important – and perhaps it is my clearest signal to Isabella Lövin today – to increase support for sexual and reproductive health and rights within the framework of humanitarian work.
i-2033913ddc33407a-817	Mr President, I would like to Never have we had as many people in need of humanitarian emergency aid as we have today. There are 125 million people in the world. 60 million people are on the run, and we have a humanitarian system that is chronically underfunded. Sweden is one of the ten countries in the world that accounts for 90% of all financial support to these 125 million people. It is absolutely incredible what responsibility we take. The system is only half funded. What, then, is the priority of those who have to deliver aid on the ground? Well, food is a priority, tents are a priority, and water is a priority. You give priority to the most elementary things. The first thing that falls away is things that make people's lives worthy, such as education and the social parts. We are now the chairman of an initiative called Call to Action, which gives priority to sexual and reproductive health and the situation of women in humanitarian situations. We work there to make other countries understand that this is crucial. Women, girls and children are the most vulnerable in these disaster situations when people are on the run. Sexual exposure to women also reproduces for generations because of involuntary pregnancies, social exclusion and all that can happen when the woman is victims several times over – and also the children. It creates further divisions in these situations. This is therefore extremely important, and it is important that we use aid and our political energy to prevent new wars and conflicts from arising. It is also a priority in Swedish aid.
i-2033913ddc33407a-821	Mr President, I would like to Hans Linde has asked me Let me first state that Agenda 2030, Addis Ababa Action Agenda with a focus on development finance and the Paris climate agreement highlight the need for strengthened partnerships and mobilisation of more actors as well as increased resources for sustainable development and climate investment – including the private sector and its resources. Increased domestic resource mobilisation and assistance remain central, but not sufficient, to meet the needs to eradicate extreme poverty. Large investments are needed. Aid methods to engage the private sector and investment for development are complementary to traditional development cooperation. This may be particularly relevant, for example, in ensuring financing for investments in renewable energy in developing countries. In July 2015, the Swedish Government commissioned Statskontoret to review the division of roles between Sida and Swedfund in the area, due to the previous government's extensive mission to Sida to introduce private sector support in the aid. Statskontoret found that there was no significant problem with this division of roles. Sida and Swedfund have complementary roles and different focus on their operations and instruments. At the same time, Statskontoret sees opportunities for improved coordination and cooperation between these two actors that should be able to give an increased impact of the overall development cooperation. Preparation of initiatives in connection with Statskontoret's report is currently underway in the Government Office. Effective use of aid resources is, of course, central to the government. I therefore look forward to returning to the matter when the proceedings are concluded. Hans Linde also addresses the issue of risk and impact assessments in the business and refers to the EBA report Business and Human Rights in Development Cooperation – has Sweden incorporated the UN Guiding Principles? The Government decided in July 2015 to amend Sida's instructions to ensure that the agency's activities are conducted in accordance with the UN's guiding principles for companies and human rights. In the State's ownership policy and guidelines for companies with state ownership, which also includes Swedfund, the Government has identified the same principles and guidelines as essential to comply with for companies with state ownership. Hans Linde also talks about transparency. Transparency is a cornerstone of Swedish development cooperation, and Sweden is a strong driving force globally to promote increased transparency also in international development cooperation. Sida's activities related to collaboration with the private sector and innovative financing are subject to the same requirements as for the other activities of the agency. Swedfund's award-winning annual report is an example of a transparent and offensive presentation of the company's operations. Information about decisions regarding Swedish aid can be found on the information service openaid.se. Finally, Mr Linde also mentions OECD-Dac. The OECD-DAC ministerial meeting on 18 and 19 February decided on how support to public institutions mobilising private resources for development purposes should be counted as assistance. The OECD-Dac then stated that a basic condition for such aid to be eligible for aid is that their main objective is to contribute to the economic development and welfare of poor countries. This principle is fundamental, and Sweden will continue to work for the regulatory framework to reflect donor countries' efforts and be transparent. The principle of independence in aid remains central to Swedish aid, and we advocate local ownership. All development cooperation shall contribute to sustainable development – economically, socially and environmentally.
i-2033913ddc33407a-828	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Government for this answer. It is clear that if we are to achieve the major objectives of Agenda 2030 of eradicating poverty, reducing inequality between men and women, halting climate change and creating socially and environmentally sustainable development, we must involve the private sector. It is not possible to carry out successful and long-term development work without dealing with the consequences of trade, investment and private companies. And there is no lack of good examples of business interests coinciding with development policy objectives. I want to be clear on this point. I visited Nicaragua when Sweden still had development cooperation with the country. In Nicaragua, Sida helped through the Fonde agro small farmers who grew coffee to become demand and fair trade. The Swedish Embassy, which we then had in Managua, then made sure to connect these small farmers with the Swedish coffee company Arvid Nordq u ist, which was in search of coffee beans of good quality that were both demand and fair trade. It ended with the sale in Sweden of coffee from these small farmers in Nicaragua. It was a win for everyone involved. But it is not so difficult to see examples of the opposite. In 2013, I visited the Mopani copper mine in northern Zambia, owned by the Swiss company Glencore. It was then undoubtedly a successful operation. The copper price was sky high and profitability very good. But just a stone's throw from the smelters, Zambians lived in the deepest poverty. The owners of Mopani blew the Zambian state over SEK 800 million in tax each year. That was four times more than the total Swedish aid to Zambia that same year. It's here somewhere it's getting complicated. How does Sweden act and how do we use our development cooperation when the profit interests in the private sector end up in direct conflict with the goals of Swedish development policy? The Expert Group for Aid Analysis and Statskontoret have recently published two good reports on Swedish aid and the private sector. Both reports point to shortcomings in governance and coherence. I think it is good that Isabella Lövin is clear that she takes Statskontoret's criticism seriously and is now preparing initiatives to respond to the criticism that has emerged. Here we will follow the work of the Government in the future. The Expert Group on Aid Analysis calls for the introduction of a mandatory requirement for state companies and public authorities to carry out risk and impact assessments in situations of high risk of human rights violations. In her reply, Isabella Lövin says that the government identifies the UN's guiding principles for companies and human rights as essential for companies with state ownership. I must admit that I do not quite understand what that means, and I would like clarification from the Government. Others have chosen to be clear. Swedish Concord has required Sweden to introduce legislation requiring mandatory impact assessments for companies operating in specific risk environments and sectors. Is the government prepared to proceed with such a change of law, so that it becomes clear that we are making this kind of requirement for impact assessments for companies operating in risk environments and sectors? What is also a little worrying is that when the Expert Group on Aid Analysis carried out its review, none of the authorities or state companies contacted were able to disclose relevant documents showing the risk assessments that had been carried out in the projects concerned. In every case, confidentiality was referred to. Does Isabella Lövin think it's a reasonable order?
i-2033913ddc33407a-839	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we share the view that unless industry and the private sector take responsibility and act responsibly in developing countries, we will never see the implementation of Agenda 2030. Nevertheless, the role of aid is a small drop in the huge global financial sea. If investment leads to unsustainable development, we will never be able to move forward with anti-current aid. We see a necessity and an opportunity to cooperate with the private sector, which was also part of Sweden's delegation in the negotiations on Agenda 2030 and not least on Financing for Development. We need to have an impact on the UN's principles of human rights in entrepreneurship and global sustainability for business as such. When it comes to Statskontoret's criticism – if we are to call it criticism – we take the comments seriously. I would like to emphasise that it was the government itself that asked Statskontoret to look at the different roles that Sida has now taken in terms of private sector collaboration and Swedfund's mission to fully address the issue and whether there is complementarity. That's what Statskontoret thought. Otherwise one could imagine letting Swedfund devote itself to the question. That we would benefit from better synergies and synergies or better communication between the two we take seriously, and we will come back to that. As regards EBA's criticism, I would like to emphasise that the report was written before the Government decided on the National Action Plan for Entrepreneurship and Human Rights and before giving Sida instructions to implement the UN's guiding principles on entrepreneurship and human rights in its private sector assistance. The analyses carried out by companies were also carried out before Sida had been able to incorporate these principles into the governance. Of course, we think that follow-up, impact assessment and transparency are very important. The Government has instructed Sida to conduct its operations in accordance with international guidelines and principles for sustainable entrepreneurship. How does Sida do its analysis? Yes, project proposals are prepared very carefully. It has recently updated its guidelines for MR analysis on entrepreneurship and MR and has a framework for sustainability assessment of private stakeholders. The Swedish National Audit Office is looking at whether Sida is following the laws, regulations and administrative instructions that exist and is doing an annual follow-up of how Sida follows the Government's instructions. Swedfund also has very well-designed systems for risk and impact assessments. They work with both environmental and social risk analysis throughout the investment process. Of course, we follow the accounts closely, and the government's instructions are clear.
i-2033913ddc33407a-847	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that the government is so clearly highlighting the UN principles on human rights and entrepreneurship. But it will be very difficult for me as a Member of Parliament in the Swedish Parliament to demand responsibility, as it is unclear what demands are made on Swedish authorities and the state companies in several areas. Above all, it is almost impossible to follow up. When authorities and state-owned companies are asked how they work with this, they refer to confidentiality and do not want to disclose any information. It will then be very difficult to have any accountability for elected representatives, for Swedish taxpayers and for people in the South. These are still issues that are central to Swedish development policy. We repeatedly call on governments in the South, UN agencies and civil society to be transparent, transparent and accountable. Then we must also reasonably be able to impose the requirements on ourselves and on our state companies and authorities. The possibility of accountability does not apply to me in particular. It is mainly about people in the south. I am thinking of the farmers in Liberia who had their livelihoods broken down by State Waterfall and Swedfund when they went in and invested in bioenergy in the company Buchanan Renewables – a project that left many farmers far poorer than they were before the project began. What is the opportunity for these farmers to gain insight into the decisions that were taken and in the impact assessments that were carried out in order to be able to demand responsibility from those who took these decisions? Here the doors are closed in many ways. It is an important issue from the point of view of rights. In my interpellation, I highlighted the discussion on the definition of private sector assistance under way within the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC). The meeting in February decided to set up such an investigation, and the results will be presented in October. Strong forces want to broaden the definition of what can be counted as aid. What you look at is the concept of additionality. In this context, additionality is that aid funds may only be used in the private sector if otherwise the operation would not have been implemented. It is also about what can be counted as aid when there is mixed funding from private and public sources. It should also look at public guarantees for private investment and when it can be counted as aid. This worries me quite a bit. The risk is obvious that more efforts that we in the North are making to promote our companies and our exports will start to be seen as aid. This would mean that aid would be eroded and it would become more tied and more donor-governed. I very much hope that Sweden will resist these proposals for a broader definition of what can be counted as aid. A prerequisite for private industry to be able to contribute to socially and environmentally sustainable development in Sweden or elsewhere is that there are trade unions that can assert employees' interests and that there are functioning collective agreements in place. This turned a blind eye to the bourgeois government, which may not have been surprising. But I get a little worried when Sida in a letter from June, which has been handed over to the government and which deals with how the aid should be used to strengthen the social dialogue, describes trade unions as dysfunctional, corrupt and in the absence of membership influence. It's not a good signal from Sida. There is clearly a need for clearer governance from the government to Sida when it comes to trade union rights being fundamental human rights.
i-2033913ddc33407a-857	Mr President, I would like to Hans Linde asks a lot of questions. I'll try to catch them. Transparency is very important. We are making the same demands on private sector aid as on all other aid. When the organization Publish What You Fund came with its aid transparency index in 2016, Sweden ended up in ninth place by 46 donors, and we got the highest grade well approved. We will also be proud that all public documents and information about the aid are made available on the web-based information service openaid.se. There you can follow when, to whom and for what purposes aid funds have been paid out and with what results. Sida's decisions and assessments are also public when it comes to cooperation with companies. All operations are covered by the transparency guarantee and published on openaid.se. It is true that in some cases the answers to some of the questions may constitute business secrets, and then it cannot be made public. But it is clear that Sida reviews and has procedures and processes for this. Sida has to respect the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. With regard to the OECD-DAC criteria for aid, we have been very clear that it should be additional when it comes to private sector aid. It should only go to actions that would otherwise not have taken place. So we should not support companies' investments in developing countries. It must also be untied. Sweden's aid is very much the same. Not all countries have this principle, but are happy to link their aid efforts to their private business. Sweden does not, nor does it intend to do so. Of course, we must ensure that human rights, social conditions and environmental sustainability are met in the efforts we make with aid and public funds. This is something that we also point out in the OECD-Dac context. With regard to the autumn meeting, the criteria and principles were established at the February ministerial meeting. What remains is at a more technical level. The principles of additionality and poverty reduction are already established. At the meeting it was clear that export credits will not be classed as aid. This could possibly be classified as other aid but not within the framework of aid. The government has indeed raised trade union rights and decent working conditions as a central point in aid. We have brought it into a wide range of strategies. It was good that Mr Linde mentioned this. It is, of course, complementary to private sector support. Workers' rights and the ability to organise themselves are also crucial to balance. We can call it the Swedish model, and what is behind the concept of global deal is that our Swedish successes in the field of labour market can be exported.
i-2033913ddc33407a-868	Mr President, I would like to As for OECD-Dac, Isabella Lövin has all the support to continue to resist those who want to open up the definitions. I welcome the fact that Isabella Lövin is so clear on this point. I also welcome the fact that Isabella Lövin is clear about the importance of trade union rights. The Government will have to send a clearer signal to Sida, because there you give a strange picture of how you look at trade unions. Clearly, the government's governance needs to make it clear that trade union rights are fundamental human rights. It also needs to be stressed that there is a need for social dialogue in both the private and public sectors, which includes both trade unions and employers, and that Swedish aid has an important role to play here. Some of the discussions may feel a little technical and complicated, but one key question is: Why have we not achieved more with Swedish aid? I often get that question, and I think the Council of State also gets that question. The answer is that much of what we do with aid is broken down by action in other areas. In Liberia, for example, we have made great efforts in recent years to combat peace, security and poverty. At the same time, the Swedish state-owned company Vattenfall has entered a bioenergy project that has thrown people into poverty and destroyed the opportunities for small farmers to make a living. This shows the importance of coherence. Last week, the government launched its new start for Sweden's policy for global development. A fresh start is welcome, because this is a key challenge if we are to have a development policy that stays together and makes a difference. We must see that, when it comes to export promotion, trade policy and state-owned companies, we unfortunately still have a major conflict to deal with and resolve.
i-2033913ddc33407a-874	Mr President, I would like to The government has certainly raised the level of ambition in terms of sustainable enterprise and human rights both nationally and internationally. This is fully in line with our relaunch of global development policy. Sweden is one of the first countries to have transposed the UN's principles for sustainable entrepreneurship and human rights within entrepreneurship nationally. It is absolutely essential if we are to see the achievement of Agenda 2030, the global goals that the world so solemnly adopted last year. This will be completely impossible if we close our eyes to or condone greedy profit interests in poor countries that favour corruption or ignore environmental or social sustainability in a way that fertilises conflict. There are too many examples of multinational companies having a turnover far greater than a poor country's whole bnp very easily negotiating conditions that are completely indecent in terms of environmental and social sustainability. It could be moving whole villages or destroying large sea areas. Here it is important that we push from Sweden, not least through the EU, for companies to behave responsibly and decently. Through the policy of global development, we have a holistic perspective in the Swedish government. As far as trade unions are concerned, it is of course extremely important that we support the good trade unions that work with true democratic methods, but we should not turn a blind eye to the fact that there can be crime or corruption in different parts of society.
i-2033913ddc33407a-880	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Gjörtler has asked me how I and the Government view the criticism of climate policy presented by the Council of Finance Ministers and what measures I intend to take following the conclusions of the Financial Affairs Council's report. Let me first say that it was clear from the time the UNFCCC was adopted in 1992 that industrialised countries should take the lead by reducing emissions at a faster pace than developing countries and doing so on the basis of responsibility and ability. It's not something we can choose to do or not. It is regrettable that the previous government did not act to create greater clarity on the issue of responsibility and clearly demonstrate that Sweden is prepared to show leadership. It is all the more gratifying that the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Objectives has now agreed on proposals for common objectives. The government is carrying out important climate initiatives in Sweden. Examples include climate change, urban environment agreements and the super-environmental car premium, which supports the ambition of fossil-free travel and transport and climate-smart cities. We invest in rail maintenance and public transport. It costs; the government spends a lot of money on this. The cost-effectiveness of climate initiatives is important, but it leads to a mistake to focus on the climate benefits of our climate policy. The investments create more attractive cities with cleaner air and create innovation and jobs throughout Sweden. We invest in the sustainable construction of society. The many benefits of our climate policy cannot be easily analysed in macro-economic models; it is well known. I note that any decision on new targets has been preceded by a debate on the costs of climate policy. The economic models have shown high costs. In the rearview mirror, however, we have achieved our new goals both easier and cheaper than the socio-economic analyses and models have claimed, while renewable energy is now gaining ground not only in Sweden but globally. It is very surprising that the interpeller and the Council of Finance Ministers have the view that the government is reducing international climate action. It would have been enough to read our last budget to see that it is not true. Huge climate investments are needed in developing countries. Therefore, the government has pushed through a record Swedish funding of the Green Climate Fund. Swedish funding was announced already in 2014 and led other countries to follow the same example. It is a clear example of how leadership can move other countries to follow suit. Substantial efforts are also being made in the field of climate in the framework of bilateral and regional development cooperation strategies. Sweden is also using its influence in multilateral cooperation and in the international financial institutions to phase out investment in and support and subsidies for fossil energy and to increase investment in renewable energy. In my role as Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate, I meet with respect for Sweden's policies and actions, which provide high credibility. I meet a great interest in the instruments we use but also our technical solutions and innovations. The demand for cooperation with Sweden is great. Through an ambitious climate policy and an offensive industrial, innovation and export policy, the government is convinced to be able to contribute to global goals and continued strong competitiveness for Swedish companies. The Paris climate agreement represents a significant increase in global climate ambitions. All countries are now committed to helping to strengthen their climate efforts and to limiting climate change as far below 2 degrees as possible and preferably below 1.5 degrees. If we're going to make it, the waiting-and-see attitude that the interpeller's in on won't work. Instead, all countries must step forward and present how their own work can be strengthened. This also applies to Sweden.
i-2033913ddc33407a-890	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Minister Lövin for his reply, although I think it is a rather strange answer, for a few reasons. The first thing that strikes me as remarkable is the tone in parts of the answer, perhaps especially towards the end. I feel that the Government is using a classic debate: what is usually called a straw man. This means making up the opinion of the counter-debater, and then arguing against it instead of responding to what the counter-debater actually says. I would have expected a little more from the climate minister than that, especially on such an important issue. The Government claims in its reply that I would advocate a waiting-and-see attitude. Then I'd like to ask the climate minister to show me where in my interpellation I'm writing something that could be perceived that way. Because I really don't. My interpellation consists in principle of a quote containing three points from the Financial Policy Council's report, followed by my questions in which I ask the Government to explain, on the one hand, how she views the criticism contained in the report and, on the other hand, what possible measures the Government intends to take in response to the report. The most serious thing is that the Government does not respond at all to the criticisms of the Fiscal Council. When you read the Government's response, you get the impression as soon as possible that she has either not read the Council's report or has not really understood what the report actually says. A great deal of effort is devoted to criticising economic models in general but above all to responding to an alleged argument, where someone – unclear who – would be against all forms of costs in climate policy. I have to assume that the Government believes that either I or the Financial Policy Council would be of that opinion. But that is not at all what the criticism is about. Criticism is about cost-effectiveness. There is a significant difference in costs and cost-effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness is not about how much money we are going to spend, but about how we are going to get the most out of each spent crown. If the Minister for Climate Change is really as committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions as she is, and as I think she is, she should take this issue a little more seriously. For what it is all about is how we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible for the money we choose to invest, no matter how much that sum happens to be at the moment. The Council of Finance Ministers puts it this way: a cost-effective climate policy is in everyone's interest as it saves resources and thus enables further efforts in climate policy or other policy areas. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Climate effects are global, and greenhouse gas emissions affect us all throughout the globe, wherever they occur. Therefore, it is just as important to get rid of one tonne of CO2 emissions in China, for example, as one tonne of CO2 emissions in Sweden. And if we can achieve four, five or perhaps ten times greater emission reductions for the same money through efforts outside Sweden's borders, that is at least something that one should be prepared to discuss. The Climate Minister seems to take both the Financial Policy Council's report and my interpellation as an insult and interpret it as a call for Sweden to do less or nothing at all. But that's not the case. I think that the Council of Finance Ministers has many interesting points, although I am not sure that I share and fully buy their conclusions on what Sweden should or should not do in the transport sector, for example. But for this very reason it would have been interesting to hear the climate minister's view on this.
i-2033913ddc33407a-902	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by apologizing if in my reply I have misinterpreted the attitude of the interpeller on the climate issue. I'm glad the interpellier doesn't think we should wait and see. I am also pleased with the parliamentary work that is taking place within the Environmental Objectives Committee, where we have a broad consensus across the block around ambitious environmental objectives and about Sweden becoming carbon neutral by 2045. It is an example to the rest of the world. Only two days ago, I pointed this out, as did the energy agreement on 100% renewable by 2040, in Brussels. We can work together and see the common interests that Sweden has and the responsibility we also have in that we have the best conditions with a very large access to renewable energy and a peaceful society with an industry that is interested in participating in this transition. If we can't, who could? It is not true that I should not have read the Financial Affairs Council's chapter on climate change. Here there is a claim that there is no empirical support for the environmental objective committee's claim that it would strengthen Sweden's competitiveness with a stricter climate policy. I would like to mention an example that was frequently used by the previous government and which is about when Sweden introduced a carbon tax in 1991, as one of the first countries in the world. It was then very much debated whether Sweden would go ahead, what consequences it would have for Swedish business and if the whole country would not end up behind everyone else because of this so-called penalty tax. But since then, in 1991, emissions have decreased by 25 percent and GDP has increased by 60 percent. Today, industry very often highlights the stricter regulatory rules that Sweden has had in the field of legislation as an absolute competitive advantage. After all, we are an export-dependent country. As Minister for International Development Cooperation, I feel that smart Swedish environmental and technology solutions and innovations are being called for in this area. Here it is legislation and objectives that have created stable planning conditions for Swedish industry that in turn have pushed these issues forward. The second thing that is directly wrong in the Financial Affairs Council's report is that we have reduced our efforts abroad. As the minister responsible for this area with regard to climate action through aid, I have very clear information to give: we do not have that. We are one of the largest donors to the Adaptation Fund, the Green Climate Fund and the LDC. We work through Sustainable Energy for all. We have introduced renewable energy into a wide range of bilateral aid strategies. We work with the regional in Asia, Oceania and sub-Saharan Africa. We are part of the Power Africa initiative, which will provide 600 million people with renewable energy. Sida has promised to contribute $1 billion within ten years. These are examples of how we invest where it is cheaper, but we also have to go ahead. We who can have responsibility to do so.
i-2033913ddc33407a-910	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Climate Action for his apology. I understand that it can be difficult and that you can misinterpret or misinterpret wording sometimes. Then we've worked it out. I would like to respond to some of the statements contained in the written reply, which were linked to here in the speech by the Minister for Climate Change. The Government criticises the Alliance Government in its written response and claims that leadership has not been shown, but the fact is that the Alliance Government invested a lot in reducing emissions here at home but also through international climate investments. We now see that developments in Swedish environmental policy have slowed down with the red-green government. One example is that greenhouse gas emissions only decreased by around 1 per cent last year, while the decrease was around 3 per cent in 2014. Above all, this applies to the transport sector, where we know that emissions from road traffic account for about one third of total emissions. Emissions from passenger cars dominate. There are many indications that the decline that we have seen in previous years has now halted. We know that it is important to have new instruments and rules for the transport sector in place. It can be said that we have not seen much from the government yet, but we must hope that something will come in the near future. As far as the Green Climate Fund is concerned, it was decided at the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009. In fact, then we were the driving force in bringing it about. It is true that at first we have been a little hesitant when it comes to depositing money on this fund during the construction phase because we were hesitant because it has not been in operation until quite recently. We have found it more serious to invest in efforts that are actually being reduced instead of red tape, as it was to some extent about. But now the fund has been working for some time. It has been structured and is becoming more functional. We also invested some money in it towards the end of the last parliamentary term. The government has now increased that effort. The Government believes that both the Council of Finance Ministers and I, as repeated here, misinterpret the government in terms of how to achieve the emission reductions. But it is actually stated in the Government's budget proposal for 2016: The Government's ambition is to achieve the target of 2020 more through national efforts. It is the government's own formulation. This is precisely what the Council of Finance Ministers is questioning. It is not about how much money you bet but about whether it is cost-effective, or in other words whether you really get the greatest climate benefit per bet crown by doing so. The Council's conclusion is: No, it is not cost-effective. I shall have to say once again that the Government does not respond to this in substance. It would have been interesting to hear more about how the government views this criticism, because there may be reasons for choosing this approach even if it is not cost-effective. But I would like to hear the arguments for that. The Government addresses some other criticisms from the Council of Finance Policy. As for the fact that there would be no empirical support for the fact that it is good for Sweden to go ahead, I would argue that it is clear that there are examples that it might be good to go ahead in some cases. I share that assessment and am not sure that the Council of Finance Policy is quite right here. I am pleased that it is at least being addressed here so that we can have a discussion on this. As far as the instruments are concerned, I believe that the Minister for Climate Change, the Council of Finance Ministers, I and many others agree that the most effective instruments are carbon tax and emissions trading. It works best if you can do this globally, but it is good if it is done at least in a larger market than the national one, where you risk businesses moving to other countries instead.
i-2033913ddc33407a-921	Mr President, I would like to This government has made a unique effort on the environmental and climate side in a very short time. We now have an investment of 41⁄2 billion in budget one. There are 600 million to the Climate Centre that will be able to deliver charging poles and biogas plants regionally and municipally. We see a huge demand for this money. More will be needed. We invest in rail, public transport also in rural areas and energy efficiency of the million-dollar programmes. It is a win-win situation as it is not only a climate effort but also an in n set to renovate our residential areas that are falling apart. Here are many low-hanging fruits to pick that have unfortunately been neglected in recent years under previous government. If we want to carry out climate action more nationally, that does not mean that we do not intend to invest internationally. Clean development mechanism, which was linked to the climate agreement, is being phased out. Now we are looking at a new mechanism for how to work more directly with the countries, for a green transition to renewable energy and also for adaptation. I mentioned what we are doing in the bilateral work. I forgot to mention that we have given Swedfund, the state investment fund, an addition of nearly 400 million to work with renewable energy. I also forgot to say something about the work we are doing in the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the European Investment Bank. Sweden is a major contributor to all these banks. We are now working on a strategy to get banks to stop investing in fossil fuels, mainly coal and oil, and start investing in renewable fuels. We are talking about trillions of dollars invested annually in various energy sources in developing countries. Through our policy work, we make a huge difference. So we are not just trying to change Sweden. It's an annoying argument when you say that Sweden only accounts for 0.1 percent of the earth's emissions and there- because it doesn't have to do much here but should do much more elsewhere. We're doing a lot more somewhere else! But the argument about 0.1% of the earth's emissions also applies to Denmark, which accounts for less than 0.1%. Spain also accounts for 0.1%. Ireland also accounts for 0.1%. Finland also accounts for 0.1 per cent. Portugal also accounts for 0.1%. There are 16 countries within Europe that account for less than 0.1% of the world's emissions. Every region or city or similar can argue the same: we only stand for 0.1%. We think it is cost-effective for the world that we, who have education, an environmental awareness, a will and a business that are willing to invest and see competitive advantages, do so. That we take the lead will mean very good conditions for our children and grandchildren and for the economy in Sweden. It has been shown over and over again that the CO2 tax, Sweden's high environmental ambitions and tough legislation in this area have not led to Swedish industry having gone to the top – vice versa. Now we have competitive advantages, not least in terms of energy efficiency. When energy costs a lot, energy-smart plants win.
i-2033913ddc33407a-929	Mr President, I would like to I want to go into the latter part that the Minister for Climate Change raised. I think there has been a slight misunderstanding in the debate. The problem is not the assertion that Sweden accounts for a small proportion of emissions and that we therefore do not have to do anything. It is about where you can make efforts that have the greatest impact at the lowest cost. If the efforts can be made most cost-effectively here, regardless of how much Sweden's share of emissions is, they should also be made here. However, if the efforts are more effective if they are done elsewhere, I think that one should at least discuss whether a larger proportion should be added elsewhere. If you are not going to do so, you should justify why this is not the case. No one is saying, at least I am not, that we should not do anything in Sweden. But if it is urgent to tackle greenhouse gas emissions – I think we both think it is – this should be quite relevant. How can we use the resources that we set aside for this most effectively? How do we reduce emissions most for the money we spend? We should be able to agree more here. It'll be a balance. I agree that we need to do things nationally too. And I think there is a great need to do things nationally, for example in the transport sector. There is a national logic in that. The transport sector accounts for a large part of our emissions in Sweden. But you need to look at it in the wider perspective. What the Council criticises is, among other things, the wording that the Government believes that a larger share should be made nationally in order to achieve the goal. It won't be cost-effective. It should be in the interests of the Minister for Climate Change to take a closer look at this.
i-2033913ddc33407a-934	Mr President, I would like to Since I am on the advisory board of the Secretary-General's Sustainable Energy for All initiative, I know that the world is looking at Sweden. The world admires Sweden. If Sweden does not deliver when it comes to climate targets, who will? We have the very best conditions. If we were to wait for China or some other major emitters to solve the problems before we get on the train, China would not be as interested. In the case of the Green K Limat Fund, Sweden entered first. That's right. If we hadn't gone in, other donors wouldn't have come. We have evidence that our contribution of EUR 4 billion was absolutely crucial for the fund to be set up. This was done about a year before the Paris Conference. It was also absolutely crucial – psychologically – for the world that we should deliver on the basis of the promises that Fredrik Re infeldt, among others, exhibited in Copenhagen when it was decided that the c limat fund would be established. There was a great deal of uncertainty in developing countries: should we believe in the rich countries? No one did it. But Sweden was there. This government was up to 4 billion. This led Norway, Canada and others to enter, even though they had not intended to enter. We also pushed forward so that four projects could be approved in October, before the December conference in Paris. It also shows practical that this will work. We will help the small island nations. We will help those who are suffering from desertification and those who need to switch to renewable energy. We are very much working internationally. That's my point. Clean development m echanism is not the only way we work. We work with so many other instruments. And we are known for it internationally.
i-2033913ddc33407a-940	Mr President, I would like to Maria Weimer has asked me what I think about the planned expansion of Nordstream 2 and the link to achieving the Paris objectives and how I act within the EU to draw the attention of the European Commission and important countries, such as Germany, to the problem of the EU continuing to develop fossil energy sources. Let me begin by agreeing with the interpellier's positive assessment of the Paris climate agreement. It is an extremely important agreement. The world's countries agreed to limit global warming to as far below two degrees as possible, and preferably for one and a half degrees. I would also remind you that the industrialised countries have a responsibility to take the lead by reducing emissions at a faster rate than the developing countries. The EU is now preparing to implement the climate agreement through concrete climate legislation at EU level. Sweden is working to ensure that the legislation is in place as soon as possible and is designed in a way that allows the EU to participate fully in the five-year review cycles of the climate agreement in order to raise the level of ambition. Mr President, I would like to Maria Weimer is worried about natural gas and Nordstream 2. I share the concern that containment in fossil energy will make it more difficult to achieve our climate goals. If we are to succeed with the Paris objectives, most of the fossil energy must stay where it is today – in the ground. The Government therefore believes that Sweden should use its influence in multilateral cooperation and in the international financial institutions to phase out investments and support for fossil energy in the long term. Sweden works to significantly reduce such investments and significantly increase investments in renewable energy as a first choice to secure countries' long-term sustainable energy supply. The government is also pushing in the EU so that investments financed by, inter alia, funds linked to the EU ETS contribute to the achievement of the EU's long-term climate and energy objectives, notably by investing in renewable energy, energy efficiency and electricity infrastructure. The government works for fossil freedom and 100% renewable energy and is actively pushing for an ambitious climate policy at EU level. At the same time, I can see that the specific choice between different types of energy is up to each Member State to decide. The clear starting points for this work are compliance with the EU acquis and respect for climate and energy objectives. If Nordstream 2 applies for the government's permission for the extension of a new pipeline in the Swedish Economic Zone, the company's application will be carefully examined in accordance with Swedish and international law.
i-2033913ddc33407a-948	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Climate Action, for your answer. The plans to build a second Russian gas pipeline through the Baltic Sea are worrying for many reasons. There is a foreign and security policy concern, which I discussed this morning with Foreign Minister Wallström. We believe that this is contrary to the foreign and security policy orientation of Sweden and the EU. There are defence policy concerns. It has negative consequences for the safety of our neighbourhood. I believe that energy policy is also in breach of the objectives of the European Union to diversify the gas market. But it's the climate reasons that interpellation is all about and that we should focus on. It is superfluous to say that the climate threat is our greatest challenge for the future. The Paris Agreement has given the world a little bit of a kick in the butt to speed up the climate work. We also know that the biggest culprit in global CO2 emissions is energy. The energy sector at global level emits more than industry, more than agriculture and more than transport. If we are to meet the Paris targets, it is the energy sector that is one of our major challenges. I think the Minister for Climate Action and I agree that we should reduce emissions from fossil energy sources. We have different views on the way there. For us liberals, the world needs to invest both in renewable energy and in nuclear energy in order to displace fossil energy sources. If we focus only on renewables, I think we are losing momentum and will have a very difficult time reducing emissions on time. For the Swedish part, we do not have to worry about the electricity sector. We have almost a completely zero-emission electricity sector. As I said, the major challenges lie with our neighbours. Germany is such a country. Germany has chosen to close nuclear power quickly, thereby increasing its dependence on coal and gas. There is certainly an extension of renewables, but it will not be enough. Germany was one of the countries that encouraged the construction of Nordstream 1. Even then, it was a wrong decision to open up the sensitive bottom of the Baltic Sea to a gas pipeline and to expand fossil energy sources. Already then it was wrong to bet on gas. Even then, management would have been stopped. Now Germany is pushing for Nordstream 2, and that is a double error. Mr President, I would like to The big difference between today and when Nordstream 1 was built in 2009 is precisely the Paris Agreement. We now have a global consensus on reducing emissions, and gas is and remains a fossil fuel. Hence my interpellation to Minister Lövin, who is now Sweden's climate minister. Lövin is also the leader of the Green Party, who wants to be a green party. Building Nordstream 2 would increase Europe's dependence on a fossil energy source. My question is: what does a green climate minister do about it? How does Lövin intend to act on this climate issue?
i-2033913ddc33407a-960	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I definitely share Maria Weimer's commitment to the climate issue and the conviction that energy independence is important, both for Sweden and for Europe. It was also the starting point for the Energy Union and for the broad energy agreement that was concluded here in Sweden last week where the Liberals chose to stay out of it. There are many of us who find it very difficult to understand that the Liberals did not want to be involved in giving the Swedish energy sector the conditions for long-term planning that one so badly needs. The other bourgeois parties were in on the agreement, which we appreciate very much. Both the nuclear sector and the rest of the energy sector appreciate this agreement. As a green man, I am very proud of the progress that has been made in energy policy in Europe, including by the green forces that have been working towards common goals. Unfortunately, the Liberals have not delivered with regard to the ambitions for energy efficiency. This is one of the major problems on the continent, in Germany and not least in Eastern Europe. This could significantly reduce energy demand by focusing on energy efficiency in housing holdings and in manufacturing. Here it was a bit sad that the Liberals during their time in government were trying to lower Sweden's targets when the framework for the European Union was to be developed in 2014. As far as Nordstream 1 and 2 are concerned, we have to deal with international law and the Unclo Convention on the Law of the Sea. There are also international agreements on the right to draw cables or pipelines on the seabed since 1982. The application received in 2013, under the previous government, has not yet been dealt with, but we must relate to it and nothing else. Germany's energy supply and energy policy are, of course, part of the Member State's own competence. There is nothing we can have views on more than working very actively to ensure that the EU's energy policy and the EU's climate policy are now aligned with the Paris climate agreement, which says that it is essential that we raise our ambitions and that we open up new reviews every five years. In fact, if we are to reach the 1.5-degree target, the objectives we have so far committed ourselves to are not good enough. That is what we are working for now.
i-2033913ddc33407a-964	Mr President, I would like to But the government has high ambitions in climate and environmental policy, in particular the Green Party. We have before us an important climate policy issue. My specific question is: how does the government intend to act in Europe? Are you going to sit still and watch the EU's dependence on fossil energy sources increase and refer to other countries being allowed to make their own decisions, no matter how damaging they may be to the climate? I think Sweden can play a role here. Lövin is one of 28 climate ministers in the EU who can influence their colleagues when you meet. The Minister attends the EU climate summits, where she could help raise this issue. Nor has it escaped the government that there is a very strong opinion in the EU today against the new gas pipeline. Ten Member States have written a letter to the Commission expressing great concern about Nordstream 2. So Lövin would not have to stand alone in Brussels. There is already a very active group of Member States critical of the plans. Ten Member States make up one third of the EU's members, so it is a fairly strong opinion. In particular, when he was a Member of the European Parliament, Peter Eriksson has expressed his criticism of the plans to build the gas pipeline. So there are representatives even in their own party who have realised the problems with the plans. It is therefore not difficult for Sweden or the Minister to join this criticism because there is already an opinion. The Minister also refers to respect for the EU's climate goals. After all, these objectives speak clearly, namely that emissions must be phased out. The Paris Agreement is crystal clear that CO2 emissions must be reduced. My simple question to the Minister then is: Does the Minister think that the plans for a new gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea are in line with the EU's climate objectives?
i-2033913ddc33407a-970	Mr President, I would like to That is not exactly what I said, that we must respect the EU's climate targets. I said that, in the light of the Paris Agreement, we must now open up to the revision of the EU's climate policy, after which the Paris Agreement includes a five-year cycle. Based on the IPCC's upcoming report in 2018 and the transparency framework that is currently being negotiated within the IPCC, we will see how we will be able to live up to 11⁄2 – 2 degree span that we agreed in Paris. In added nationally determined contributions, which have so far been submitted, will lead to a temperature rise globally of probably around 2.7 degrees. We will have to shift this work up and be much more ambitious. That is why we must now – and I will be present at the first Environment and Climate Summit on Monday – be very clear that in the emissions trading system and in the other parts of the climate and energy package we need openings for a review of the EU's targets by 2020 and beyond. It's extremely central. We would have liked to see more ambitious targets for the EU as a whole. But now we have what we have. It is very important to work with those instruments and strengthen them. Not least, the ETS is important in this context, as is the energy efficiency objectives. It is true that Germany and other countries are currently dependent on gas. The objectives of the Energy Union are very much about diversification and self-sufficiency. It's not really part of my briefcase. But it is also an issue of energy security. So there is much to be gained for the Union. We need to look at Nordstream from the point of view of international law. There is no way to ignore it. The Convention on the Law of the Sea applies. We will have to come back to the discussion about whether or not to build the pipeline, but in order to stop it, there must be obvious reasons from a climate point of view. One argument for stopping the one that could be used is that it is about building into infrastructure that is then difficult to dismantle. It is a very expensive investment, and we want investments in energy in the post-Paris landscape to take place in sustainable energy infrastructures. Not least, we need more transmission and transmission capacity between EU countries in order to transfer renewable energy, which to a much greater extent needs to be shared across national borders. There are great needs here that we need to look at.
i-2033913ddc33407a-976	Mr President, I would like to If there is a meeting of climate ministers on Monday, it is an excellent opportunity to discuss this issue with colleagues in Brussels. If one is serious about the concerns expressed by several government representatives about these plans, this is a good opportunity to connect with the other ten countries that have expressed criticism of the project and support them. When the government receives an application for authorisation for a new gas pipeline, it will be examined carefully, the minister said in his response to my interpellation. We heard this morning that Foreign Minister Wallström was prepared to include the security policy aspects in such a test. The inclusion of environmental issues is a matter of course. You look at the sensitive bottom of the Baltic Sea, just as you did last time, and you have to assess how much damage a new gas pipeline can do on an already very strained inland sea. However, since this issue also has a strong climate policy connection, I would like to ask Minister Lövin whether she is prepared to include climate aspects in the test that the government will make.
i-2033913ddc33407a-978	Mr President, I would like to This is a government with very high ambitions in the environment and climate. It's one of our three priorities, apart from work and school – we're gonna leave a sustainable planet to our children. Of course, it is quite natural to include these aspects in the assessments we make of any project. Then we have to look at the room for manoeuvre on the specific issue. I am very proud of the progress we are making in many areas in terms of international investment in renewable projects. Within the World Bank and the international institutions, we are now working very actively at policy level to change investment policies in order to promote investments in renewable energy. Work on policies, electricity grids and the like can facilitate investment in renewable energy and phase out the support given to fossil energy. This is happening mainly in developing countries, but also at European level. We have a broad international commitment through development cooperation, our contribution to the Green Climate Fund and our national work. Here it is important to show leadership, and I think that Sweden did last week when parties broadly merged in an energy agreement. Unfortunately, the Liberals sided with the agreement and thereby weakened it in a rather incomprehensible and unnecessary way. But otherwise I share Maria Weimer's commitment to the climate issue.
i-PHifXRXzhx3SRbqYgnE6xy	Mr President, Roger Hedlund and others on the benches! Good afternoon! Roger Hedlund has asked me what the government intends to do to ensure access to housing for students. It is an important and reasonable question. Like Roger Hedlund, I think it is very unfortunate if students are to be forced to turn down a place of study because they cannot get a student residence at the place of study. Student housing construction was very low over a number of years. For example, in 2008–2012, the average number of student flats per year was built less than 500, while the number of study places has increased in recent years and the general housing shortage has increased. Against this background, a number of measures have been taken to increase student housing. The announced investment support for the organisation of rental housing and student housing facilitates the financing of student housing. The aid is intended to apply retroactively to construction started on 25 March 2015. Prior to that, new building regulations, in the form of changes in design requirements, entered into force in 2014, enabling the construction of student housing with a living area of 16 square metres; previously the corresponding figure was about 25. In this respect, accessibility is not compromised. Last year the government decided on a regulation on traffic noise in residential buildings. The regulation contains specific guidelines for small dwellings under 35 square metres and has made it easier to build student housing in central public transport locations where many people want to live. The Government has clarified the mission of Akademiska Hus. Since 2015, the company has therefore been able to build and own student housing itself. An important part of the company's mission is long-term sustainable campus development, which also includes enabling new student housing. As a result, Akademiska Hus has further intensified its efforts to create the conditions for new student housing through external actors or in its own direction. Today, the company has over 10 000 student apartments in its planning for the next five to six years. The measures to increase student housing construction seem to have produced good results. In 2015, more than 3,000 student dwellings were started, according to Statistics Sweden. In this year's housing market survey, municipalities estimate that more than 4,000 student apartments will start this year and 6,000 next year.
i-2033913ddc33407a-987	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Peter Eriksson, for the answer you have given to my question about what the government intends to do to ensure that students have the opportunity to have a place of study! I think we can agree, the government and I, that the Alliance didn't take the situation seriously at all. In many respects, they have been involved in creating the situation that we are seeing today for students. There is a large housing shortage in Sweden in general today. This also applies, of course, to those students who need accommodation. We probably saw all the headlines in local newspapers around the country, and also in the big newspapers, about how students lacked housing when they were going to study in the autumn on the program they had entered. It is extremely serious when you see that some students are forced to camp in tents while waiting for a dwelling. It is also serious that we have a situation in which people have had to refrain from studying the education they have received because they do not have the opportunity to get a home, to commute or to solve it in other ways – perhaps by having capital to buy a home. This is of course a serious situation for the whole country and for the labour market because we have a high unemployment rate in Sweden. It is largely due to the fact that companies do not get the right skills in the labour market. Perhaps more jobs are not always needed; rather, trained staff may be needed to take the jobs that are available. Therefore, it is a serious situation when students lack the opportunity to study – something that is so important to be able to contribute to a good labour market where we receive tax money in order to arrange access to welfare and the like. The Swedish Democrats have raised the issue in a number of debates. I have taken it up since I entered the Riksdag in autumn 2014. I can admit that we have begun to see some results on the part of the government in tackling the situation on the basis of the paralysed situation that prevailed with the ruling of the Alliance in previous years. I do not really feel that I am getting answers on how young people in smaller places and others who want to study at universities and colleges should be given the opportunity to study. Of course, we are talking about creating better general conditions, but are there other solutions to enable even those who have the most difficult – those in the smaller towns – to come to the place of study where the university or university is located? What opportunity will they have for a good education and perhaps primarily be able to contribute to developing the rural or smaller area where they live? Unfortunately, we see a depopulation of the smaller towns because of the lack of jobs. This in turn is also due to the lack of skilled labour market staff in smaller towns. This is very much an issue that concerns the whole of Sweden. Today, a study showed that there is a large proportion of young people who refer to the fact that the lack of housing means that they do not have the opportunity to develop their study career. My question is: How many years should you have to wait to get a balance in the housing market for students? And are the measures presented in the interpellation response from the Government sufficient, according to the Minister for Housing?
i-2033913ddc33407a-995	Mr President, I would like to Are the measures sufficient? Housing construction takes some time. The problem is not only that it was built too little before, but also that the children's hills were large during these years. It is about the fact that the children who were born in the years around 1990 and who are now young people are very many. They have graduated from high school, and they are now in many cases in the university. They have already begun to leave the university. It makes us have a peak right now. In retrospect, we can see that much more should have been built in the past. Then one could have met this peak in a good way, and that would have made it easier in many ways. But now we see that within a few years the children's litters will decrease, and there will be a sharp drop in students from that direction. On the other hand, we have strong immigration, which we have had for a number of years. It probably balances this to quite a degree. The assessment I make is that there will be a need for further new construction of student housing in the coming years. In the plan and in the planned construction that we see, we also have a substantial expansion of the number of student housing. The investment aid that we have decided on is aimed at the smaller homes. Akademiska Hus has good planning to build more. I think we will be able to deal with the issues quite well. I would say that the overall housing situation in Sweden is more worrying, especially in the next few years. The Swedish economy is doing well. Housing construction is also good. It has increased sharply in recent years, and we are now at a level of started apartments in the last quarter which corresponds to 60 000 apartments per year, unlike 25 000 – 30 000, on which it was during the last term of office. It is therefore more than a doubling of the total production of housing. But we will need even more, especially in the short term 2017 – 2018, to deal with the overall housing situation. I believe that the number of student housing will also increase quite sharply. We will be able to deal with that.
i-2033913ddc33407a-999	Mr President, I would like to Thanks again for the answer, Peter Eriksson! Like you, I can see that the increase in housing construction is probably due to the economic cycle in Sweden rather than to the regulatory simplifications or similar that the Alliance often highlights as a reason for the increase in construction. It is important to look at the students' housing based on the housing market as a whole. 72 per cent of all students who have a dwelling live in the general dwelling stock and not in a special student dwelling. This leads us to review the situation that we had last autumn with a large wave of asylum to Sweden, which has created a large housing shortage. We have had a situation where housing in different forms has been pushed out everywhere. For example, we have had people who have lived in tent camps in Sweden. On 1 March, the government imposed an obligation on the municipalities to accept refugees, which has forced some municipalities to buy homes, villas and the like, to enable the refugees to have a place to live. The responsibility now lies with the municipality and not with the state. This raises a question: What is the situation this autumn for those students who have entered their educations and need a home based on the refugee wave that we saw in Sweden in autumn 2015? Has the situation worsened? A large proportion of the students – 72 per cent, as I said – live in the general housing stock. Does the Government know how the situation has changed for students when it comes to housing? Boverket has produced a report that says that 700 000 homes are needed in Sweden in general to get some kind of balance in the housing market. It was a report that came before the refugee wave in autumn 2015. We do not know what the need is today, for there has been no new inventory in this area. However, we can all say that the situation has certainly worsened enormously, given that 114 000 asylum seekers came to Sweden between September and December 2015. My question is: What opportunities will the students have for housing during the autumn? I wonder, in view of the situation that has arisen with the wave of refugees and that so many students today live in the general housing stock.
i-2033913ddc33407a-1005	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll admit I haven't been able to solve all the problems in these weeks. For example, I think it will still be a dilemma for students this autumn. For a lot of students it will take time to find a good housing solution even this autumn. That's my assessment. I think that relatively many people may need to find a solution that is about being an inn, living in a villa or an apartment with someone else. It doesn't always have to be a bad solution. We are now also looking at whether we can find models to further promote subletting as part of a solution to the housing problem in general in Sweden. But it is also about the situation for students. In the case of young people and students coming from conurbation municipalities or from rural municipalities outside the places of study, this is a special issue. There the housing problem is often less than it is in the places of study. It is sometimes about finding smart solutions with a little better public transport and better coordination, so that maybe not everyone, at least not immediately, needs to move to a student apartment right next to the university or university. Then they can stay at least until they find a good solution. It is my experience that there are a lot of municipalities and municipal politicians who are prepared to make efforts to help in this matter. A lot of people already do that. I've heard the discussion. Some say: Housing building is now increasing considerably, and that depends on what we did during the last term of office. Roger Hedlund says it depends on the business cycle. I say: It depends very much on political will. The main responsibility for housing construction lies with the municipalities. And today we have municipalities that want to build. They work very hard in many cases to ensure that they meet the housing challenge and create the conditions so that the companies and the public housing companies can make the efforts and constructions they want and so that it can go faster. There are many good examples in a lot of municipalities that you make sure to use the regulations, which I think is far too complicated, in the best possible way. You make sure that through good and smart planning you actually get up the housing structure properly. My assessment is that political will is important. There's a will in the government. There is a greater will in many municipalities, I say. It makes a strong contribution to the fact that we are also building more today.
i-2033913ddc33407a-1010	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Housing is talking about favouring subletting. The parliament and the government have changed the rules in an earlier stage so that it is quite favorable today. You can rent out for up to 40 000 kroner or tax free before you have to start paying. This makes it beneficial today. I do not really know how we can further promote this without, at the same time, benefiting those who earn a great deal of money from central housing in Stockholm and other metropolitan regions. But at least it is good to look over various things to improve the situation. It has turned out that there is a need for over 21 000 housing for students – probably many more. It is again old investigations from last year that I refer to. I'm sure this may have changed. It will therefore take a very long time from what the government is presenting today, along with the development, before there will be some kind of balance and security for students, so that they can have an accommodation at the place of study. The question is whether housing could be linked to students in the places of study precisely to ensure that there is housing for students. It is of course extremely important for society as a whole that there is housing for students when they need to study. I hope that the Government Office with its enormous resources can review this situation. At least I hear that the Government has the ambition to look at it. I also hope that the government will use those resources to actually review the situation properly during the summer. Some quick solutions by autumn may be too much to expect. But I hope that in the future we will not have to see the headlines that we will probably see this autumn about students lacking housing.
i-2033913ddc33407a-1013	Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I can at least say that we are building more student housing today than we have done before, and we will build even more next year. We are also taking a number of measures and looking at whether we can do even more in the Government Office. Such proposals will be forthcoming.
