i-b136d9c000f52d16-3	Mr President, I would like to Aid policy is rarely a source of great friction as far as the basics are concerned. We agree reasonably that Sweden should have an idea and spend resources on people being able to get out of poverty and oppression. It may differ in how we view that goal, how it is to be achieved and what is to be prioritised. There is also quite a difference in political craftsmanship. The current government has had significant challenges with that. In the report, we disagree with a formality about how the budget is written so that it is possible to follow up on what is promised. It shouldn't be like that. In addition, we disagree about some of the policies, such as the priorities of aid. I therefore support our reservation 4 on the priorities for aid. Of course we support all our reservations, but we do this for time winning. The framework is fixed, so we do not take part in the budget decision. Mr President, I would like to The New Moderates have a plan for development policy. It's pretty simple. This is what it sounds like: Moderate politics works here too. There are no excuses for socialism. In short, it is about the need for order and order, more follow-up and more policy development. There is a need for predictability. Aid must deliver results. We demand responsible management of aid funds, transparency and anti-corruption work. It's a difficult time for the world now. The conflicts are fewer but worse. It takes time for the political solutions to the conflicts to be put in place. Sweden needs to land on the tricky issue of the relationship between humanitarian aid and long-term aid. How will aid in the future be adapted to the reality of the situation? What is the current government's response? No one really knows that. We've asked the question. But at least we agree on the problem. There are great opportunities to improve aid: more country focus, strengthening states at risk of disintegration, countering terrorism, strengthening LGBTQ people's rights, working with technology development, working with others and evaluating. Building functioning states provides functioning societies. Institutions, property rights and respect for the principles of the rule of law are needed. More trade is needed to strengthen economies, but it is, after all, a little side by side with the debate today. But aid such as vaccines, SRHR interventions, i.e. efforts for exuelle and re productive health and rights, and continuing the fight for women and against maternal mortality, child marriage and trafficking has a great effect and makes a difference. There's a lot going on in the world today. The needs are endless, and we must prioritise. Mr President, I would like to The OECD-DAC definition of aid shall be safeguarded. We want to increase support for multilateral organisations – it is usually the UN system – but we want to reduce bilateral aid, i.e. aid between countries. As resources are limited, priority is needed. Now there's some abbreviations here, so hold on to your hat! We're increasing on UNHCR, WFP, UNICEF, Cerf and Gavi. We note that a review of the nuclear support to multilateral organisations is needed to determine where it is most useful. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of political consensus in committee. This applies, for example, to the SRHR issue, which we together help the government to understand and drive. We share the concern about the shrinking space for civil society. We share the commitment to LGBTQ people's rights and commitment to women's rights. But with such a weak government, parliamentary cooperation has to work, and sometimes I have to say that it goes so with the anchoring. It is good that Sweden delivers within the aid and continues with the good work that has given us the good reputation we have. We do not expect anything else either. But it is worrying when the government just floats along and spends some extra money now and then but doesn't have a clear idea, some sharp priority or some movement towards policy development and renewal in the aid. The twitchiness and unprofessional handling are bad. I would just like to remind you of last year's budget debate, which was indeed banana. It is worrying if Sweden's priorities change because of our seat in the Security Council. Surely we can think that the world deserves better than this lukewarm environmental party policy. However, there are lightenings. A new golden opportunity is the new sustainability goals. Sweden should be able to choose some and be the best at them. Instead, the government has removed the minister responsible for coordination, appointed a delegation that has delivered a debate article and promised to update the aid policy framework. But it has not yet happened. It's too little and too late. People have the right to freedom, security and justice. Development is ultimately driven by people's own will and ability. It is the task of aid to help create the conditions for people to emerge from poverty and oppression. The link between aid and security policy is becoming stronger. It is about dealing with the root causes and reducing global exclusion. Aid, like foreign policy, should be valuable.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-17	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Arkelsten, for your speech. I am particularly pleased that you emphasise that there is a great deal of consensus on many issues and that it is important that Sweden continues to have a good reputation internationally, as I can confirm that we really do have in terms of effective, sustainable and untied aid. The latter means that our intentions are never called into question, but that we really want to work long-term to strengthen the situation of poor people. That is why I also welcome the fact that Sofia Arkelsten emphasises the protection of OECD-DAC criteria for what can be counted as aid. You also pay attention to the shrinking space for civil society as well as SRHR and strong institutions and peace building. These are things where we are in complete agreement. I'm a little surprised that Sofia Arkelsten suggests that we don't give priority. We have clear priorities in the area of aid that are now being put forward in the development policy framework. Peacebuilding and conflict prevention is a new major priority that the previous government did not have. Environment and climate are the second major priority, and the third one concerns gender equality. There, the previous government also made great efforts. We agree that there are great needs in the world right now. 65 million people are on the run, and 130 million are in need of humanitarian aid. That is why I am surprised to see that the Moderates in their budget motion want to reduce aid. They want to return to the old bni concept, which means cutting away 1.5 billion each year. I want to ask Sofia Arkelsten: What are you going to prioritise away, and where are you going to cut down? Is it about schools, water, equality or conflict prevention? What's going away?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-22	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, which I thought would come! Of course, the Moderates do not want to lower, but we still have the old definition in this budget too. This is also the first year in which the government has the new definition of how aid is calculated. I personally find it sad that we did not get any further in the moderate budgetary process, but we have also been clear that, when we have order in the economy, we will, of course, respect OECD-Dac.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-24	Mr President, I would like to I thank Sofia Arkelsten for the honest answer. I hope that Sofia Arkelsten will have a better impact in her own party's budget process. The Moderates have a party leader who very clearly declares that she wants to be Sweden's next Prime Minister. It gives such a low priority to conflict prevention and efforts to strengthen environmental and climate work in the world that it feels that this can wait, and therefore it holds in 1.5 billion each year – it will be 6 billion in four years. These are very concrete efforts that need to be cut back. I note that Sofia Arkelsten indicated that there has been a twitch in the process. I would like to remind you that the Swedish National Audit Office in its evaluation of the government's management has not called it awkward or unprofessional. On the other hand, it has praised the government's approach to being prepared for the settlement process in which, unlike the Moderates, we have now clearly said that we are setting a ceiling of 30% for possible settlements. Sofia Arkelsten boasts of being much clearer and to be clear about what she wants to prioritise. If you are now going to cut away 1.5 billion a year, i.e. 6 billion in four years, what effort is going to be made? Can Sofia Arkelsten point to them? Is that water? Is that sanitation? Are those schools? Is it conflict prevention? Is that SRHR? What's going away? I think the voters are interested in this.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-28	Mr President, I would like to I really have to apologize if it was that I indicated that there was a twitchiness. Are you aware of how poorly managed the budget was last year? It has become marginally better, but the government is still terrible at coordination, talking beforehand, anchoring and finding consensus. It is only because the opposition parties and the Alliance are friendly that we find this consensus. That's because we already think so. The KU criticised the handling. No formal errors had been made, but you still received criticism in the text. Oh, my God! I see that the Government is shaking its head, but I note that you received criticism. We can double-check this with the President of the KU Andreas Norlén – you received criticism. The Swedish National Audit Office says that it affects quality when it is so jerky. That's exactly how it is! I can also note that large proposals amounting to billions were dealt with in a short evening. In the run-up to the government meeting on Thursday, there was not even a ready-made proposal so that it was on the agenda when the government was going to take decisions. The agenda is well published at 6-7 o'clock on the government's website. I have asked a written question about this, because it is necessary to get some answers here, and I can only note that the proposal was still being prepared in the Government Office. The same applies to the regulation letter to Sida, which also related to many billions. I must be clear that I do not accept the extremely unprofessional approach. I think it's boring. This is the first budget where you use the new target. You used to have the same goal as us. In the previous budget you did both, but that was the old case. I'm not very worried about this.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-33	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Arkelsten began by talking about the Moderates having a plan for aid. Then she said something about socialism, and I was just waiting for her to say that the government was tired too, because then we would have got the talk point bingo from the Moderates in this debate. Let us look at the exercise presented by the Moderates. This is a party that has ambitions to take over government power and which is the largest opposition party right now. What is their plan for aid? Where is the difference between socialism and non-socialism in Swedish development policy? Well, this difference is that you want to make cuts of SEK 1.5 billion in the aid budget. Who could believe that socialism was so close in Sweden? In addition, the Moderates, as we heard from Sofia Arkelsten in the speaker's chair, want to invest in a number of multilateral organisations covering just over half a billion. This means that the draft budget that Sofia Arkelsten intends to vote on this afternoon means cuts of just over SEK 2 billion. If someone had wanted to do that kind of reductions in another area, it would have been expected to get some kind of calculation. Where is the money going to be taken? What do you cut off? Sofia Arkelsten has now been asked twice, but she refuses to give any information. What efforts should be made? Where are these savings to be made? I think this is untenable. It's not responsible, Sofia Arkelsten. That's why I'm asking the same question that Isabella Lövin asked earlier. You will vote in favour of cuts in aid of 2 billion in the 2017 budget. Where do you think that money should be taken? The Moderates also write in their motion that they want to make clearer country focus and reduce the number of countries with which Sweden has bilateral development cooperation. Which countries do the Moderates want Sweden to phase out its aid to next year?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-40	Mr President, I would like to It is always exhilarating to mention the word socialism, because then you know that there can be a line from Hans Linde from the Left Party. It is not cuts that we are proposing, but we are still at the old level in terms of aid – the old way of calculating BNI. However, I am aware that we are going to get a lot of bang and bark for this. I am also straight that we did not get all the way forward, but the Moderates have a budget motion that takes responsibility for the economy. That's what's happening right now. As far as our policy is concerned, I have already mentioned what we want to invest more in. I have also mentioned what we do not want to spend as much on: the bilateral work. The statement is in our version, and it is possible to read it.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-43	Mr President, I would like to Can you imagine another debate, in another area of expenditure, where you would say that next year's budget wants to cut defence by SEK 2 billion? But you have no real idea where the money should be taken from. Imagine the desire to cut 2 billion at school and refer to unclear wording in a budget motion. This had not been accepted in any other budget area. Sofia Arkelsten is here with high rhetoric that there should be order and clarity, but she cannot explain where to take SEK 2 billion next year. Nor can she answer the rather simple question of which countries the Moderates want to phase out aid to. I interpret the motion that the Moderates have written as wanting to phase out aid to Bolivia, Burkina Faso and Iraq. This is a guess, based on what the Moderates have written. For Bolivia, we have a new strategy in place, which runs until 2020. Should we stop that strategy now, Sofia Arkelsten? Should we break the promises we have made, including to Bolivian civil society? Burkina Faso has just conducted the first democratic elections in the history of the country. It has a newly elected parliament and a newly elected government. You're in the middle of a democratic transition. Is it really the time for Sweden to withdraw its support and abandon these courageous democrats, who have finally conquered parliamentary power? The last country is Iraq. Do Sofia Arkelsten and the Moderates seriously – if you look at the situation in Iraq right now – think that this is a good time to bring home Swedish aid? Is it a good situation, given the fragile situation in Iraq, to stop efforts for peace, security and state building?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-49	Mr President, I would like to It is a challenge to handle Hans Linde's interpretations of our policy. What is stated in our motion is that we should leave the countries where we have already begun a de-escalation and a conclusion in terms of bilateral work. I have said that what we think is important to move forward on is multilateral aid. This does not mean that we are leaving the countries wind by wave, but rather that we are choosing a different way of working with them. In a way, this is a very nice description from Hans Linde. Needs are always unreasonably great. We could spend the entire state budget on helping other countries. We could do a lot of things. The hard thing is not to wish, but the hard thing is that we must always choose what is most important. What leads to the most crisis management? The big question, therefore, is how to deal with humanitarian aid linked to the long-term. Right now, there's no really good synergy. There's no really good connection. But I think it is not as effective to have many and small bilateral cooperations, but I think it is more cost-effective and gives better results to work multilaterally, together with other countries.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-53	Mr President, I would like to Assistance shall contribute to development where other flows are unable to deliver results. Addis Ababa Action Agenda notes that delivering the new sustainability goals requires additional and other funding. Today 10 crowns are being lost from the poorest countries in tax planning and pure tax evasion for every aid crown that comes in, and unfortunately the figure is increasing. Tax evasion and corruption undermine, among other things, Swedish aid. How do the Moderates view the government's work against tax evasion?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-56	Mr President, I would like to What a constructive and good line from Maria Andersson Willner! I think it is important that Sweden stands up for order and order to apply and that we should work against tax planning and corruption. Corruption is one of the most difficult things to get at. Yesterday we met with the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan. At that time, one of the members of the committee asked a question about precisely corruption – Afghanistan is our largest recipient – and how they work towards it. It is unlikely to be easy to access, but if Sweden and other countries are not located, nothing will of course happen. The new sustainability goals and a global agenda concern corruption, including in the case of good institutions, order and order and legislation. As far as tax planning is concerned, I know that Anders Borg, when he was Minister of Finance, concluded a number of tax agreements, so Sweden does its part there. I think it is a good thing that we are moving forward and working on this also in aid.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-61	Mr President, I would like to I also have a question for Sofia about land focus. Land focus sounds great – greater concentration. According to the Moderates, more countries are to be phased out so that we can focus more on those that remain. In the budget bill we can see which countries would be phased out according to the bourgeois government. Iraq would be phased out, and Hans Linde has already mentioned this. But sometimes reality turns around, and then we also have to turn around. Would it be right, with the information we have today, to phase out aid to Iraq?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-64	Mr President, I would like to That is also a good question. As things stand at present, our budget bill is still in place. So it is in politics that it is as it is until it is in a different way, so I cannot begin to sway here in the speaker's chair. I have looked at some of the beneficiary countries that have been phased out in recent years from Swedish aid, and that is 30 countries. However, I can also say that 13 of them have been phased out because their own economy has improved, and it was perhaps not aid that was alone and a little bit saved these countries. This applies to several countries in Africa and India, which is a huge and important country, but also to Russia. Russia is involved in some aid operations where we support civil society. But it is still interesting to see that there is a movement in this. I think that the government needs to be very sensitive. But it is a contradiction in the longer term. There is a need for responsiveness with a long-term perspective in terms of aid and for the world to be seen as it looks. It is possible that there is room for improvement.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-69	Mr President, I would like to We are debating Category 7 International aid, which is an extremely important area of life or death in many cases. At the same time, it is an area of expenditure that can create faith in the future and hope for people who are so vulnerable that many here in Sweden cannot even imagine it. The long-term objective of aid must be to develop countries to the extent that they no longer need aid. I think most of us agree on that. In addition, through a thorough review of inefficient aid, a greater concentration of aid to the least developed countries and less focus, we can make development aid more effective. In view of the suffering we see around the world with repression, war, natural disasters and poverty, it is important to allocate the funds correctly, so we Swedish democrats give priority to the most vulnerable people. And every bet will make as much use as possible. We want to see aid that creates the conditions for people in poverty and oppression to improve their living conditions based on their basic needs in the immediate everyday life. We also want a clear focus on poverty reduction and the children's best interests to be at the centre. Unlike the government and the other opposition parties, we are deeply critical of the massive bills made in the aid budget in favour of domestic refugee reception in Sweden. It is dishonest, in our view, to hit hard-pressed people in need of our help just to be able to deal with a false placard policy here in Sweden. Yesterday, I took part in the expenditure area debate on migration in this House. I then highlighted the skewed distribution of money a year ago and how it affects millions of people who need our help. Although the figures I raised at the time concerned only the calculations for 2016, which, however, were at a disadvantage, the distribution today looks similar. Swedish refugee aid was then estimated to cost 80 billion per year and would contribute to support for 78 000 people. At the same time, the UN had requested 70 billion to cover this need for about 12 million refugees. They got only half, which means that Swedish refugee aid, which could reach only a fraction of the world's over 65 million refugees, cost more than twice as much as the UN's global needs. Anyone understands that this isn't really okay. This kind of distribution is, in my opinion, completely insane. With the Swedish Democrats' budget, we are enabling resources that would help millions more people than both the government and the so-called opposition do, although on paper it is a smaller framework than the government. We are investing in the most vulnerable, and we are not refining the statistics by counting huge amounts that are currently being deducted for the reception of refugees in Sweden. In other words, because we give priority to aid for the most poor and vulnerable, we can make increases in several other important areas such as refugee aid, humanitarian aid, water, sanitation, health and health care, and agriculture. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the actual distribution of aid, we believe that a number of other changes are needed in aid policy. Perhaps the most important is more careful monitoring of the proper use of aid and the achievement of the desired result. The government should draw up a White Paper on how much of the Swedish aid has been issued to recipient countries in the past without Sweden evaluating scientifically whether the funds have been of any use at all. In this way, we will enable greater transparency for our citizens. In addition, random checks of Swedish aid projects should be carried out using randomised control studies and quantitative impact assessments. All long-term aid projects that prove to be lacking these evaluations should be phased out in the long term. One objective of Swedish aid should be to strengthen countries that are moving in a positive direction. It must not pay to mismanage the country's economy and its welfare efforts or violate international human rights conventions. With this principle, it is important that Sweden has a flexible system for the least developed countries in particular, as the combination with these requirements often becomes difficult. In these cases, aid should be allocated primarily to civil society and not through its governments. Where beneficiary countries violate fundamental human rights or operate counterproductively, aid must be phased out effectively. Our support should primarily be directed at the weakest countries. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, I would like to make clear the importance of having an opportunity to use aid for beneficiary countries to promote human rights on the one hand and to fulfil their commitments to their citizens on the other. We have seen, among other things, how the Government of Afghanistan voted against the readmission of its own citizens from Sweden. This is unacceptable, and the government should be able to take action if necessary. Of course, the Swedish Democrats support all the SD reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only ask for reservations 2 and 5.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-86	Mr President, I would like to I thank Markus Wiechel for his speech. There were many words at the beginning that I really agree with. We have a very difficult situation in the world today with people who are extremely vulnerable to war and conflict and a structural poverty that they find very difficult to overcome unless the rich countries help with both peace and state-building and the urgent needs of so many. 65 million people are on the run today because of wars and conflicts that they can't help at all. 130 million are currently in need of humanitarian aid. We have very ambitious aid. We also have an ambitious and generous refugee policy and accept some of those who flee from war and conflict. We are proud that we do both. Weak people should not be put against each other in this context. However, I am surprised by Markus Wiechels's allegations that Swedish aid is not controlled and does not follow scientific evaluations. We have very strict requirements for Swedish aid, and both what we provide through multilateral organisations and through Sida and the aid framework are continuously monitored. SD wants to reduce aid for the next four years by SEK 10 billion. You want to give up the 1% target for aid. Where is Markus Wiechel going to cut down? Is it in schools, in health care or in the long-term peace-building work? What could go away? Where are you going to cut down the 10 billion?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-91	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, we do not make the bills that the government makes. We'll reduce the settlements by 90%. We can do that precisely because we do not advocate the same policies as Isabella Lövin and the rest of the government. This allows us to invest in other areas such as humanitarian aid, water, sanitation, health and so on. We give special organisations such as World Food Programme, UNICEF and UNHCR significantly more money than the government and can therefore help considerably more people even if we have a smaller framework than the government. Sweden is at the forefront of evaluation, but that does not mean that it is enough. We have seen how money has been channelled into inefficient projects. We have also seen how money has gone to the Palestinian Authority, where oppression of women among others and indoctrination of children take place on a daily basis. We have seen how money has gone indirectly to terrorist organisations. To this day, the government is giving money to the Islamic Relief organization, which is part of the Muslim Brotherhood. Last year the government also gave money to the Syrian Recovery Trust Fund, an organisation that is also linked to radical Islamic and Salafist movements in Syria.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-95	Mr President, I would like to It's a strange level of detail that Markus Wiechel is going into. I can guarantee that the support given to the Palestinian Authority goes through the EU's mechanism for aid to Palestine. Islamic Relief is also approved by the EU and other actors. Markus Wiechels's accusations are therefore very strange. But it is a good way to try to escape the question of where the 10 billion should be taken from. They can hardly be from the marginal support that goes through the channels that Markus Wiechel has looked at. Markus Wiechel also felt that we had to take a tougher stance on Afghanistan. I wonder what's meant. Is this about the 68 000 children who go to school in Afghanistan thanks to the Swedish Afghanistan Committee? Does Markus Wiechel intend to make aid conditional on the Afghanistan Government acting in a certain way? What are you thinking? We are careful that we have long-term, qualitative aid that produces good results, and it should be untied. We never give aid without carefully following up on respect for democracy and human rights and that it is as effective as possible. Demanding things from governments in poor and fragile countries has produced poor results throughout history. This is very clear in the scientific evaluations. With regard to the 10 billion over the next four years, it is not enough to talk about the settlements because it is much larger amounts that Markus Wiechel intends to remove. Is the money just enough for blankets in refugee camps?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-101	Mr President, I would like to The European Union's approval I am not giving much for, I can promise. We have clear evidence of the links that exist between radical Islamic organisations and Islamic Relief, which is actually part of the Muslim Brotherhood. There is no doubt about it. Nevertheless, the government chooses to continue to channel money there. That's what I call counterproductive. When we have done this, we have a framework of 0.84% of the aid budget. It's no less than that. So to Afghanistan. In my speech, I said that it is important that the government has an opportunity to act if necessary. We will see how Afghanistan is dealing with the situation of readmission. But if they do not take responsibility for their own citizens, as all states should, the government must be able to take action. I am not referring to the withdrawal of humanitarian aid or aid to UNICEF or schools in Afghanistan. I am referring to direct support for the Afghan Government. We must focus on supporting civil society in Afghanistan where there is a need. With regard to support for the Afghan Government, the government may consider whether other measures are needed.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-105	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting to hear the Swedish Democrats in such a debate. The Swedish Democrats have a little political idea of being against international cooperation. You want to leave the European Union, and NATO you do not want to enter. Aid is a global concern. Which actors does SD want to cooperate with? Is the UN cleared? What about EU cooperation in the area of aid? What about Gates Foundation and religious actors? What do you think about development cooperation?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-107	Mr President, I would like to Cooperation is only positive. I and the Swedish Democrats are in favour of all forms of international cooperation. What we are opposed to, for example with regard to the European Union, is supranationality that restricts national self-determination and the ability of citizens to influence their lives through decision-makers. There are several organisations around the world that both I personally and the party are positive about. The UN is a very important player in international cooperation, especially with regard to vulnerable people. That is one of the reasons why we want to increase the funding for organisations such as UNICEF and UNHCR substantially. We also see important actors in Syria and Iraq, for example. These are organisations that work in conflict areas, such as the Syrian Church and various Syrian parishes that support vulnerable – not only Christians but all people who need help. These are organisations that can provide support in the most complex areas, and of course we see it as positive to cooperate with them.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-110	Mr President, I would like to The image of SD's view of cooperation is radically different for us who work with you every day when we sit on the same committee. There is a slight chasm when Markus Wiechel describes that the SD would like to cooperate when you are generally opposed to everything relating to aid at European level, that is, the cooperation that we have within Europe in terms of aid. I have another, a little more technical question. How do you view different types of aid? It's tricky to read it out of your exercise. What unites MP and SD can also be scepticism against, for example, vaccines. Do you understand that vaccines are a good type of aid? Do you understand that the SRHR, sexual and reproductive health and rights, the protection of abortion rights, for example, is a good type of aid? Is this what you think should be part of the aid?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-112	Mr President, I would like to We can start by looking at the issue of aid at EU level. We believe, as with other EU-related issues, that we can do it best here in Sweden. We do not need the European Union to manage our aid policy or to allocate the money we want to go to aid. We can do better on our own. Then we should be generous, and of course we can have different collaborations with other countries, perhaps to make aid more effective or similar, but we do it best in our own country, just as other countries do. We can use the UN, which is a much better international body to pass on money. Just as I was in my main speech, our main focus is the most vulnerable. It is primarily about humanitarian aid and about investments in water, sanitation, hygiene, health and that kind of support. What is less successful in many contexts is direct aid to various states where you do not have the right control of what the money is spent on.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-114	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats' parade is not international solidarity. The Swedish democrats are talking about needs in the world and in the immediate vicinity of the vast and inhuman catastrophes for humanity that we are seeing today, and then they are cutting back on aid. In total, they reduce the aid framework by 10 billion over four years. How does Markus Wiechel think that Sweden should be involved in taking responsibility for the development of the world when the needs increase but the commitment of the Swedish democrats decreases?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-116	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I think the rhetoric here is a little misleading. The Swedish Democrats spend far more than the government on international aid. We spend 9 billion more than the government on humanitarian aid to various organisations. This is a little strange. The government uses refugee costs in Sweden to increase its aid. We spend 0.84% of the UK on aid, which is well above the UN's recommended level of 0.75%. As far as international aid is concerned, we want to contribute to positive development, not only through aid but also by promoting international trade, not least with poor regions, and by allowing people and countries to govern themselves. We do not want organisations such as the European Union, as I used to be, to be in charge of others.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-119	Mr President, I would like to We are not content with a quantitative objective but focus more on quality and aid that focuses on efficiency and results with the most vulnerable people in focus. Assistance shall be for positive development in the recipient country and not for donor countries to achieve quantitative targets. ..................................................... This is a direct quote from the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats. At the same time, you are questioning the whole of Swedish aid because it has not been evaluated quantitatively. What do you mean? Is it quality that should be governing, or are you satisfied that Sweden achieves quantitative targets?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-121	Mr President, I would like to This quan tity can certainly be interpreted in a number of different ways, so I understand the question. The government uses quantity to a large extent when it constantly points to how much it spends within the aid framework. It ignores the fact that up to 30% of the aid budget is being lost to domestic immigration-related costs. This is not quality, it's just quantity. We focus on quality and invest in those people who need help around the world and do not have clean water or food for the day. That is what we mean by quality over quantity. If you go around Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and so on and talk to those in place, you can find out if they generally want quality or quantity. I think most people wish that you can help as many as possible at the best price possible.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-123	Mr President, I would like to In these dark days, there is a need for us to get perspective on development. We can look back on the Millennium Goals as a success. There the world managed to focus its development efforts. In 15 years, we managed to halve poverty. Then we had eight goals. We have now agreed on Agenda 2030 and gone from 8 to 18 targets. Here too, Mr President, there will be a need for clear focus, not least from the Swedish side. If we are to manage to eradicate poverty, we must be focused. The world's poorest are concentrated in some parts of the world. In 2011, 60 per cent of them were in five countries. Mr President, I would like to Basic education is an area that is central to achieving change and frees people. Here we can also see that we have succeeded in working on the Millennium Goals. The literacy of children aged 15 to 24 is 91 per cent. Child mortality has halved, and maternal mortality has declined. Looking back at 2015 – the year in which the Millennium Development Goals would be achieved – we can also see that we have not only succeeded in our work globally but have also managed to agree on the continuation, both with the global development goals and with the Paris climate agreement. There is thus a change in the conditions for our work in the future. From the Center Party we want Swedish aid to achieve both added value and results. We are clear with the objective of 1% of GDP, we are clear that it should be essentially untied aid, we think it is important with the DAC rules and that they are enforced, and we have a focus with a view to the fact that in 2030 we must have succeeded in making both areas and countries independent of aid. The assistance complements, and at best it will also generate resources for sustainable development. We see that achieving the objectives of Agenda 2030 requires much more than aid itself can achieve on the global stage. The eradication of poverty requires increased focus, as I mentioned earlier, on the poorest people in the least developed countries. As far as we are concerned, it is of course crucial that we also take up the climate agreement, because we know that if we do not succeed in meeting the climate challenges, we risk the efforts we have made so far in terms of aid. Therefore, it is crucial that we continue to have a climate focus. We also want to strengthen democracy and gender equality and increase respect for human rights. These are central points for our Swedish aid, where we tend to agree correctly. But we see that this is a worrying development in the area of democracy. The democracy index shows that we are now losing power globally. More and more countries are strangling civil society in terms of freedom of expression and of the press; dissidents are being imprisoned, whether it is religion, ethnicity, politics or how people want to live their lives that are the basis for this. Freedom is thus growing. Then it is important that Sweden continues to support freedom fighters. We're supposed to be a humanitarian superpower and we are. But then we will not only be able to work preventively, but we will also have to rebuild. Without rebuilding after crises and conflicts, we will not be preventive, but we will be making the next conflict. That is why the reconstruction profile is important to us. I note that the government chose not to reprioritize when resources were withdrawn last year. Now, on the other hand, when more money can be added as a result of a reduction in refugee bills, this money is used only to restore previous promises. Otherwise, there would have been resources to increase humanitarian efforts, for example, to the UNHCR in this area. Mr President, I would like to I would like to reinforce the image of the mission of aid to contribute to an improved environment. We in the Center Party have in our budget, which is now not the subject of a position because framework decisions have already been taken, pointed out and proposed 500 million in new funds for the Green Climate Fund to support efforts to adapt countries and reduce vulnerability among people. It is, of course, a focus in the African context on precisely these efforts, not least measures to include the whole of society. There, the rural areas with agriculture and the conditions for agriculture to grow are an important part of eradicating hunger, achieving gender equality and achieving inclusive poverty reduction. Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that we are, of course, in favour of the whole of our budget, but I am in favour of reservation 6 in paragraph 4 on the priorities for aid.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-136	Mr President, I would like to Today, 34 000 women, men and children will be forced to leave their homes. Today they are forced to join the 65 million people who are already living on the run. Today, 17 000 children under the age of five will die, and they will die for nothing. Today, 800 women and girls will also die because they have become pregnant, and then pregnancy is not an illness. They will die because they have been denied the right to their body, sexuality and reproduction. There are many development challenges, and they are great. At the same time, resources are not lacking. We have never before in human history been richer than we are right now. But our resources are so deeply unfairly distributed. The richest percentage of the earth's population owns as much as the remaining 99%. 85 people own as much as the 3.5 billion poorest. It is as if the Moderate parliamentary group together would own as much as the entire population of China, India, the United States and Brazil. When we receive reports of the indescribable human suffering in Aleppo and of the heat record in the Arctic, it is easy to feel abandonment. But in the quiet and far away from the spotlight of the media, women and men join together for change. Not infrequently, they also succeed in changing their reality and doing so with great success. Despite the escalation of violence in Afghani's tan, 65 000 children, 62 per cent of them girls, are currently receiving education in the Swedish Afghanistan Committee's schools. Too many of these girls are the first girls in their families to learn to read and write. Inside the Syria of the War, Lama Mouakea and her colleagues in the Syrian Family Planning Association see that women and girls have access to contraception and maternal care. Since the war began, they have started 74 new mobile clinics. In Burkina Faso, the first democratically elected parliament is currently working. It could be elected after the people had deposed the authoritarian President Blaise Compaoré after 27 years in power. Then, too, a military coup was averted. Colombia is on its way to peace after decades of bloody civil war. Mo çambique has introduced the right to abortion. Argentina has introduced the world's most progressive gender legislation for transgender people. And in Zambia, older people are ever entitled to a pension for the first time. Textile workers in Ban gladesh, LGBT people in Uganda and journalists in Honduras are not waiting for us to free them. They are already fighting every day for change. But they need our support, and they need our solidarity. For 62 years Sweden has been operating state aid. Our failures and successes have taught us what works and what doesn't work. Our development cooperation cannot alone save the world. But it is one of our most important tools to support the work of democracy, social justice, gender equality and sustainable development that is already being carried out around the world. Because our history here in Sweden shows that our aid properly designed can make a difference and can contribute to change. That is why we in the Left Party are aid friends. We want to see a large Swedish aid of high quality. That is why we have defended the 1% target and actively pushed ahead in negotiations with the government to reduce settlements in 2017. I must also admit that the Left Party would have liked us to have managed to reduce the settlements considerably more than is now apparent from the budget on the table of Parliament. Basically, we want to see a Swedish development policy that is long-term, coherent and predictable. It is about a Swedish aid that takes its starting point in the needs and desires of those who know poverty, oppression and injustice in their everyday lives. When strong forces now want to undermine aid, including by allowing aid to finance military expenditure or by using aid as a means of exerting pressure to force countries in the South to take back deported refugees, we need to be even clearer about the need to protect aid. Here I welcome the clear message that Isabella Lövin gave last week at the Aid Effectiveness Summit in Nairobi. Since 2012, 90 countries have introduced legislation restricting the freedom of civil society. At a time when the scope for civil society is shrinking, we need to be even clearer about our support, both around the world and at home in Sweden. We also see how sexual and reproductive health and rights are being attacked worldwide and that too few donors are prepared to fight for the SRHR issues. I am also pleased that the Left Party and the Government have agreed that Sweden will give the Global Fund a new and comprehensive promise for the next three years. At the same time, I think, in conclusion, that in the coming year we must be prepared to greatly increase our support precisely for the SRHR work following the outcome of the US presidential elections. We are now seeing an American conservative administration coming into place, an administration that is likely to seriously attack and undermine support for maternal care, contraception, sex education and women's right to their own body. Then we in Sweden must also be prepared to step forward and increase our support for organisations such as UNFPA and IPPF. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-96sRFMDZ4uDSYt8EDGYJy2	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I call for the Liberals' reservation 8. I visited the Polish capital of Warsaw this weekend with European liberals. We would gather together to develop strategies to stop the populism that is spreading rapidly in Europe and the world. I and all of you in this House remember when Communism had Poland in its grip and when Eastern and Central Europe was then democratised, when the planned economy was replaced by a market economy and when the gag was replaced by freedom of expression. We know how important it was for Polish liberals and social democrats who defied the regime to feel that they had our support and that there were like-minded people on the other side of the Iron Curtain who shouted that another society was actually possible. We know that democracy does not grow by itself. We are seeing this in Poland today and in many other places in the world. We also see it in history – how democracy is a garden that must be constantly watered. Without democrats in place, nothing can grow. That is why we Liberals want Sweden, as one of the fewer and fewer progressive countries in the world, to set democratisation as a top objective in foreign and aid policy. I want Isabella Lövin and Margot Wallström to push for an increased focus on democracy efforts in the EU's aid strategies and to support the good initiatives that have been taken. One such example is the EU Human Rights Defenders' Mechanism, which will be able to provide both urgent and long-term support – ranging from physical protection to networking – to vulnerable human rights activists worldwide. I would also like the Red-Green Government to give the Swedish foreign authorities the task of giving greater priority to the work to promote democracy and human rights. The Swedish voice abroad must work to make liberal values, not just national interests, stronger. We need more courageous freedom projects to support people in dictatorships and authoritarian states so that everyone there can think, think and believe freely. I hope that the government will set up an investigation as soon as possible to present a comprehensive agenda for Swedish support to democracy activists. When I sat in the Alliance Government as a minister, we opened together with colleagues the Swedish Embassy in Havana with an internet café for dissidents and others who wanted to take part in uncensored information. The café, alongside the American consulate, was one of few places where Cubans could communicate freely. I am therefore disappointed that the government has supported the EU's agreement with the Communist dictatorship of Cuba. The process has completely lacked transparency from democratic forces on the ground in the country, and some key demands have been softened. Mr President, I would like to In the poor part of the world, the lack of reforms is a greater problem than the lack of resources. The legislative bodies in the countries themselves must act to clean up corruption and liberalise the economy. It is common knowledge that we Liberals believe that states that implement democratic reforms, promote human rights, equality and transparency and reduce corruption should be rewarded for this in aid. We should also be able to lend our talented Swedish officials much more often to help build good administration. One country I want to highlight is Tunisia. They have adopted a feminist constitution, they have held free elections, they have great literacy and they have one of the region's most well-developed economies. The young population really longs for freedom. In 2015, according to Freedom House, the country went on to be free, and this we have to watch and affirm. At the same time, we know that Tunisia is the country where the most people go to join Daish. It's a big challenge. Therefore, under the DAC rules, it is now possible to use aid to prevent violence-promoting extremism. Here we Liberals think that Tunisia should become a pilot project that can then be applied to other countries, to help them to counter the increasing radicalisation. Modern terrorism is borderless. Recruitment can take place in one country, the attack is carried out in another and the base is established in another. Here it is important to create a great strategy. That is why we are doubling support for Tunisia in our budget motion. Mr President, I would like to States that restrict human rights should be phased out from Swedish bilateral aid. Long-term support to such countries shall be provided through civil society, democratic opposition or international organisations. Sweden must therefore have a much tougher policy towards, among others, the Palestinian Authority. We see women, homosexuals and dissidents being violated there on a daily basis, and elections have not been held there for over a decade. Sweden must also pursue the issues that are politically sensitive globally. It can be LGBTQ people's rights but also abortion. We know that presidential candidate Hillary Clinton spoke of the importance of giving rape victims access to safe abortions in, for example, war zones. Now the USA instead got a very populist, conservative president, and it is especially important that Sweden and other countries build alliances. A child, a teacher and a pen can change the world, said 19-year-old Malala Yousafzai, shot in the head by the Taliban because she wanted to go to school. In just one in five countries of the world, as many girls as boys are enrolled in school, so priority must be given to education aid. It affects the next generation. Mr President, I would like to Whoever loses his story also loses himself. That is why it is important, not least for Western civilization, to ensure that what has been demolished during the Daish period of mass violence in the Middle East is rebuilt. Destruction of cultural heritage is an integral part of any totalitarian ideology. No genocide is accomplished without cultural cleansing. That is why we also want to give priority to this issue. Mrs. Minister for Development Isabella Lövin! We know that last autumn the ICC condemned for the first time the destruction of cultural heritage as a war crime. We want this to be given a much stronger priority in aid. Finally, Mr President, we are living in a strange time. It is not only on the basis of liberal principles and cosmopolitan beliefs that it is right to support the good forces that, at the risk of their lives, are fighting for democracy. In today's world, it's a pure survival strategy.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-171	Mr President, I would like to It is undeniably a bleak picture of the world that is being painted in today's debate. When I was preparing for this speech, my original point was that I should start by raising everything positive and showing that aid has really made a difference: how we can see improved access to clean water, how child mortality has been reduced and how more children are able to go to school. For of course there are these flashes of light – aid saves lives. But when a world burns, when despots oppressing and persecuting their own population only grow more and when the images of children suffering and dying in eastern Aleppo, in Mosul and in other parts of the world never seem to end, it is not time to just stress that Sweden is indeed a humanitarian power or beat us to the chest because at least we live up to our global commitments in a world that is burning. I do not mean that we should not be proud of success or lose the spark to make the world better. Every mouth saturated, every woman entering the labour market, every individual allowed to love whoever it wants and allowed to think, write, speak, vote and pray freely is a success, and thus increases the chances of development. But I think it is perhaps more important than ever to ensure that the priorities are as balanced as they can be. The question we should focus on is: What role can and should Sweden play in a world that burns? The Christian Democrats have the same view as the government of how much money should go to Category 7 International Aid. On the other hand, we would have liked to see other priorities within the budget, and these are the ones I will now be presenting. Firstly, the current world situation makes our draft budget allocate more of the Swedish aid budget to humanitarian aid operations, in order to help create security and confidence in the future for more people who are now fleeing for their lives. In addition to pooling support for major international organisations such as UNHCR, World Food Programme and UNICEF, i.e. the most active organisations in the refugee field and working on children's safety and rights, we believe that the government must be even more creative in reaching the aid. Because of armed struggles or dictatorships, it is not possible to achieve aid through official channels. We therefore propose in our motion that civil society, in the form of small NGOs and communities that often have contacts and direct distribution systems, should be used much more. They work in the direct front line in disaster areas, they often have very good local knowledge and they are in place more long-term. Secondly, the Christian Democrats want to see an even clearer focus on strengthening the development of democracy and increasing respect for human rights and freedoms. It is tragic, to say the least, to see how freedom and democracy in the world are in sharp decline and how power-full leaders in country after country cling to power – Castro, Mugabe and Abbas. We are all holding our breath at what is going to happen to Kabila in Congo this December. He doesn't seem to want to move. It has been said many times, but it can be repeated: democracy is the best guarantee of peace and security. Democracies don't fight each other. And it is only on the basis of lasting and stable democracy that social and economic development can have a sustainable place in societies. Sweden will support democracy fighters and promote strengthened freedom of expression and thought in countries where it is severely restricted. Several civil society organisations are working in particular to support opposition groups in repressive states around the world. That work is extremely important for those individuals who risk the lives and safety of their own and their families on a daily basis, because they stand up for these rights and freedoms. We Christian Democrats therefore propose in our motion that a freedom fund be set up. It should work a little more flexibly to provide support to those who are fighting, so that they can operate and live more dignifiedly. Throughout history, we have seen that individuals can play a crucial role in the development of a country. Many times they and their families, as I have said, have to pay an extremely high price for it. Mr President, I would like to Health interventions are often measurable. The Millennium Development Goals also show that this aid has produced very good results. Child mortality has decreased from just over 12 million in 1990 to 6.6 million in 2014 – largely due to efforts on vaccination programmes, anti-malaria efforts and increased access to clean water. However, some 18 000 children under five die every day, as has been mentioned earlier in the debate. It's not worthy of humanity in 2016. It is not reasonable for children today to lose their lives because of relatively simple diseases such as diarrhea and pneumonia. Today, we have every opportunity to reduce child mortality, which is largely due to basic and relatively simple shortcomings in the environment around children. Vaccination programs have proved to be a very effective aid that can literally save lives. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that support for the Global Fund and for the vaccine alliance Gavi should be increased. In contrast, improved maternal health requires more long-term work. More educated midwives are needed in these countries. It relieves a large part of the problems. However, real change in the situation of women and girls requires changes in structures and values in many cases. Many severe injuries and deaths occur during childbirth because the mother has been too young for the body to cope with a pregnancy or childbirth. The practice of young girls being married away must be actively countered on a cultural and valuation level in order to reduce maternal mortality. Mr President, I would like to The budgetary area that we are now debating naturally leads to debate between us, but this rarely leads to a major debate among Sweden's citizens. It rarely becomes a hot election issue or comes up in the television debates. I don't think it's because people aren't interested in making the world better. On the other hand, I believe that we want to be able to rely on the best possible use of tax resources. In times when millions of people are fleeing from corrupt and dictatorial regimes, we must ask ourselves even more what responsibility the leaders of countries have to assist their own people and what we can do to put pressure on them. We also have a great responsibility to ensure that we carry out quality aid. Of course, I support the reservations of the Christian Democrats. But for time winning, I plead for reservation 9.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-192	Mr President, I would like to Aid is not about 1 percent of bni, about 46.1 billion in aid framework, about 29 partner countries or about 20.1 billion SEK to Sida. Aid is about solidarity and responsibility. Aid is about practical solidarity between rich and poor, between those who have and those who do not. People's everyday lives differ. Poverty and hardship cannot be measured. Being poor is tough in Sweden, and being sick or unemployed is tough in Sweden. But if Sweden had been Zambia, 398 women would have died each year in connection with pregnancy or childbirth. In Zambia, maternal mortality is 398 per 100,000 births. But in 2007 the maternal mortality rate was 591 per 100,000 births. Through long-term health assistance to Zambia, Sweden has been able to contribute to this reduction. That is what aid is all about. Several humanitarian conflicts have worsened in 2016, and the number of people fleeing as a result of conflicts, natural disasters and poverty has increased sharply. The humanitarian needs of the world are historically great. And the humanitarian system is very strained. In the rubble of the societies devastated by wars, armed conflicts or natural disasters, humanitarian aid has helped to save lives and alleviate immediate human distress. The government has specifically identified women and girls as the target group for humanitarian work. Sweden must continue to actively pursue the SRHR issues within the framework of humanitarian action. Sweden should also increase its focus on gender and protection issues within humanitarian aid. Mr President, I would like to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström raised the importance of Swedish foreign policy pushing for a stronger link between development and peace, and that we increase our focus on conflict prevention. There will be a vicious circle between armed violence and underdevelopment. No lasting progress can be achieved in a society characterised by violence, conflict and threats of violence. Armed violence and the uncontrolled spread of small and light weapons are an obstacle to sustainable development. The UN Secretary-General stated last year that access to small and light weapons is a prerequisite for conflict and violence and that it is a factor that multiplies conflict and violence. In addition to human suffering, the use of small and light weapons leads to considerable economic and social costs that prevent countries from developing. The UN Development Programme, the UNDP, has shown that the cost of armed violence in some years has been 10% of the gross domestic product in Guatemala. Armed violence costs Africa about $18 billion a year. These resources could instead be used to support the development of these countries and to build communities with access to education, health care, infrastructure and water. Aid organisations testify to how the weapons make their everyday lives and work difficult, how the weapons hinder access and the ability to provide support and provide assistance to vulnerable people. The fight against armed violence is therefore not just a matter of human security and sustainable development. Being able to ensure that aid reaches and achieves sustainable results is simply a matter of cost-effectiveness. With the Swedish Government's priority of peace, security and conflict prevention in development cooperation, we can be a leader in this matter. Swedish development cooperation will contribute to productive employment with decent working conditions and basic social protection. Unemployment, a low level of formal employment, precarious employment conditions and substandard employment conditions are important causes of poverty. Through the work of decent conditions, workers can secure their right to good working conditions, wages, education and social welfare. Companies get stability and more strong consumers. This benefits society as a whole. Swedfund contributes to social development through the creation of jobs with a good working environment and good working conditions in some of the poorest and most vulnerable countries. It is really good that Swedfund now receives additional capital injections of 400 million. Mr President, I would like to Human dignity is universal, and solidarity with the poor and oppressed must also be universal. All aid and development cooperation shall be based on the rights perspective, the right to life, health, water and education. It must be based on the perspective of poor people. It is an important and good basis for aid work. I would therefore like to support the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in its report.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-204	Mr President, I would like to For a long time we have seen a positive development in the world when it comes to war, violence and conflict. We could seriously talk about the world as a more peaceful place with fewer conflicts and less violence. That, my friends, has been the long-term trend and it gives reasons for confidence. Unfortunately, we are now seeing a trend break. The number of active conflicts in the world is rising again, and there is a sharp rise in the number of people dying as a result of organised crime in the world. In fact, we have not seen this many conflicts between non-governmental groups since the end of the Cold War. More than 65 million people are on the run today. The need for help and vulnerability is absolutely overwhelming. For me, this is a central look when we formulate and debate Sweden's development policy. The world needs more emergency and humanitarian aid. There is a need for urgent action with food, medical care and shelter that relieves distress and saves lives. However, humanitarian action alone is not enough. Mr President, I would like to In a more troubled and violent world, aid and foreign policy are needed that make clear efforts to tackle the root causes of conflict. We need to make serious efforts to build peace and prevent conflicts. If we do not, we do not just risk more conflicts or the spread and growth of conflicts. There will also be conflicts that progress year after year and tangle communities and human destinies. The need for emergency aid is in danger of becoming permanent. It is usually said that the facts are kicking, so let me mention two facts that guide me in terms of aid and global development. Firstly, people are on the run for more than ten years on average today. Millions of people are trapped in a refugee state that seems to be endless. It is not only an unworthy situation, it is also dangerous. It is a breeding ground for extremism and increased instability. Secondly, two thirds of the world's poor will be living in conflict-affected areas in just ten years' time. It is therefore essential that aid has a conflict perspective. If we do not reduce and prevent violence and conflict, poverty will not be eradicated. Violence in all its forms is one of the greatest threats to sustainable development. 80 % of humanitarian needs are currently in prolonged and humanitarian situations caused by war and conflict. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, we are now making a clear upgrading of the peace and conflict prevention work in the field of aid. Among other things, Sida has been tasked with conflict-proofing aid and bringing conflict prevention into all its development strategies. We have increased our focus on fragile and conflict-affected countries, and we are working systematically to increase women's participation in peace efforts. We have launched innovations that combine humanitarian efforts with long-term development cooperation. The Syrian crisis strategy, which is now in its first year, is perhaps the best-known example of this. For a long time, humanitarian and long-term aid have often been disconnected from each other. In order to help people get back to a decent life as quickly as possible, this link needs to be strengthened. We must make efforts for long-term development and reconstruction at an early stage. This is crucial to creating the conditions for a post-war future when peace has taken hold. Recently we had a visit from Gustavo Gonzales in Sweden. Gustavo is UNDP's coordinator for the work in Syria. He is one of many who has lifted Syria's strategy as an innovative international way of working. His wish was that Sweden should bring this up in the work of the Security Council to get more actors to operate in the same way. It's a success. Mr President, I would like to Preventing conflict and promoting peace is of course very complex. We need to use a variety of tools, not least, close interaction between aid and the rest of foreign policy is necessary. That is why I am particularly pleased with the peace investment and investment in peace diplomacy that we are now doing in foreign policy. There will be a long-term strengthening of our capacity for peace diplomacy, dialogue and mediation through a dedicated group of diplomats. With this transversal focus on conflict prevention and peace-promoting measures, Sweden creates important synergies. In a troubled world, more is needed now than ever.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-221	Mr President, I would like to It is rarely that I agree with the Green Party on various issues, but when it comes to humanitarian aid, I note that there has often been a positive focus. In particular, during the last parliamentary term, the Green Party criticised the accounts of the previous year in the supplementary budget. In 2014, the alliance government took approximately SEK 4 billion from the aid to spend on the Swedish asylum reception. In 2015, the Red Green Government, of which the Green Party is known, took SEK 8.4 billion from the aid, which means more than a doubling. They went from 10 percent to 20 percent. For 2016, it has been estimated that around SEK 16 billion is spent on payments, i.e. almost 30% of the aid budget. What I wonder is how Pernilla Stålhammar can defend this policy. Why is it all of a sudden okay to go from criti nizing that you are taking 10% to suddenly defending the fact that you are taking 30% from the aid budget?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-224	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that question. Of course, we do not want to pit vulnerable groups against each other. I think that is something that the Swedish Democrats are doing, however, by not wanting to help the asylum seekers who come to Sweden. We are investing in humanitarian aid, and that is a good thing, but at the same time we are cutting back on long-term aid. Mr Wiechel is also aware that it was an extremely exceptional situation in the world, and that we are still in it. We really wanted to help and let the refugees who came to Sweden seek asylum here. We can do both. We have much more generous international aid than the Swedish Democrats have. We do not go beyond the rules that OECD-Dac has set itself for what is aid. On the other hand, you want to make cuts. You do not want to accept asylum seekers in Sweden. In addition, you want to reduce aid in the long term by a great many billions.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-227	Mr President, I would like to Putting groups against each other sounds terribly boring. I don't want to do that either. But the fact is that when you have limited resources to invest in different things you sometimes have to prioritize, which is a completely different thing. In this case, we give priority to those in need and the most vulnerable around the world who in many cases have nothing in front of people who have made their way to security and then moved on to Sweden for a better life. Of course we had an exceptional situation last year, but it cannot explain that at the same time people who have already made their way to security are given priority over people who have nothing, people who today in refugee camps are starving or do not have basic supplies, medicine, clean water or other things. This is what I find a little strange. I may think that in this case the Green Party has given way quite properly in the Social Democratic-led government. If this is not the case, Pernilla Stålhammar will be happy to explain how they can do these priorities anyway. As I mentioned earlier, Swedish aid for refugees is very inefficient. With more than a double the amount used by the United Nations globally, a tiny fraction of the people who need help are being helped. It is also largely about people who are already in safety.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-232	Mr President, I would like to This doesn't make any sense. We're giving you a huge amount of support. It is much more generous than what the Swedish Democrats give. You cut a great deal in the budget – SEK 10 billion – if you look a few years forward. That's a lot of money. In addition, you focus on feeding and simply giving it short-term. Therefore, I would like to return a question to Markus Wiechel: how do you expect these poor people to get out of the conflict if you do not invest in the long-term work at the same time? As far as the reception of refugees is concerned, we had to reduce the number of asylum seekers who came to Sweden in the emergency situation that prevailed at the time. The Green Party wants institutions to be built up and integration to increase. In this way we can then increase the number of asylum seekers that Sweden can receive. However, the world situation is exceptional. We must work both in the long term and provide emergency humanitarian aid. These ways must be married together, and I do not see that the Swedish Democrats do so when they cut aid as radically as they do.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-236	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Last week I met a young woman in Somalia's capital Mogadishu. Her name is Saida, and with the help of Swedish aid she and hundreds of other Somalis now receive an education for the first time. She has never learned to read and write, but now she is receiving vocational training to become a construction worker. It is happening in the midst of a Mogadishu that is completely destroyed after 25 years of civil war. Every wall of a house is perforated with bullets. The cathedral looks like a ruin and is a memory of what Mogadishu once was. She stood there in a youth center and showed me a concrete floor plate that she had just made. When she began to talk about it, it was much more than just an example of a dirty craft that she had learned. For her, it was a step toward building Mogadishu again. She wanted to help rebuild the entire country of Somalia. I have rarely seen a man beam as much of pride as Saida did with her dirty concrete plate in the middle of a destroyed Mogadishu. Mr President, I would like to It is very fast to destroy a country, but it takes generations to rebuild a country to peace and stability after war. The war in Somalia has created unimaginable human suffering and a sharp decline in development. This applies not least to women's opportunities in society. But in the midst of this misery, for the first time, steps are being taken towards something new. For the first time in almost 50 years, elections will now be held in Somalia. These are not perfect democratic elections; they are elections by proxy. However, the various parties throughout the country have agreed on this, and it is a step in the right direction. When peace returns step by step, new seeds of hope may sprout. Small businesses can be set up, schools can be built and hospitals can be reopened. Swedish aid saves lives, but not only that. Swedish aid also creates jobs, strengthens the rule of law and is involved in building states, just like in Somalia. Last year, 22 000 young people got jobs in Somalia thanks to Swedish aid. So let us also feel a little pride! We join in giving strength and empowerment to those who want nothing but to join in building their own countries. Mr President, I would like to In the decades that have passed since we started providing aid, we have learned a lot. We have learned that we must fight corruption, that human rights must be respected and that the whole of society, not just the government, must be involved if aid is to work. But we have also learned that aid only works if it is based on people's needs. The fight against poverty, nothing else, must be at the heart of the issue. It does not work to use aid as a coercion to get poor countries to implement the donor countries' own political agenda. We now know that this is not effective aid. The price of this lesson has been high. We have seen many examples of failed aid projects, which have been planned from above and have not been based on the needs of the local population themselves. I am worried when I see how EU countries, after EU countries, once again want to use aid as a whip to push their own interests through. This is not an effective aid. Mr President, I would like to I have a message for those who believe that aid should be a cash cow for all kinds of political projects: it does not work. I am very proud that a large majority in this House agrees that the objective of aid should be to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression – nothing else. I am also proud that for many decades, regardless of political colour, Swedish governments have fought for aid to be effective and for every crown to be used correctly. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to be able to present an aid budget that is increasing by 2.6 billion compared to last year. At a time when global challenges are enormous, aid is needed more than ever. When many other countries hesitate or fail in their responsibilities, I want to make it clear that Sweden's support stands firm. Next year we want to increase support for sexual and reproductive health and rights. We are increasing aid to water and sanitation, as well as to help people who are on the run. It is particularly important to increase support for civil society and efforts towards democracy and human rights. Around the world we see examples of how organisations are pushed back, how regimes try to control the media and how critical voices are silenced. Sweden's voice for democracy, human rights and civil society should be clear. Because if we do not break this trend, new tensions will be built into society. Peace and stability are under threat. Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago we received reports that the Arctic is 20 degrees warmer than normal. At this time, we need countries that take priority and responsibility and show that it is possible to build a fossil-free welfare state. It is the poorest countries that will otherwise suffer the most from climate change. That is why we are not only the largest donor per capita to the UN's Green Climate Fund. We are also pushing for the World Bank to stop investing its billions in coal and oil and instead switch to solar, wind and bioenergy. We want to address the major global challenges. That is what the world's poor and Swedish taxpayers expect of us.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-248	Mr President, I would like to There are many questions to ask the Government, but I thought I'd start with the following. How will the government deal with the issue of humanitarian aid and the link with the longer term? We have conflicts in the world today that are fewer but worse. They'll take longer. And it is tricky to know whether people need humanitarian aid or something more long-term. This has a lot to do with the type of actors in place. Right now we have humanitarian actors who take great responsibility for the longer-term work. I have put the question to the Secretary of State, who well described the problem but not so much of the solution. I wonder what the government's position is. Where are you going in this? On the same theme, I also wonder how you work with innovation, policy development and technology development. That is perhaps what is lacking in the aid debate today. It is very much about long-termism, and it must do so, especially after the twitching last year. While I have the Government on the line, I was going to ask when it will be possible to follow up the budget. When will it be that the budget we receive for Parliament is so arranged that we can follow up on the thematic parts? You need it. I think it is a good idea for you to improve the foundation of Parliament. Like I said, it's a little tricky.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-252	Mr President, I would like to I thank Sofia Arkelsten for that. On the question of the link between humanitarian aid and long-term aid, I would like to take Somalia as an example once again. The world's largest refugee camp is located in Kenya on the Somali border. There are now some 300 000 refugees from Somalia. A lot of them were born in the camp. They have been there since the early 1990s. Now Kenya is trying to close this camp. The people who live there live with humanitarian aid. There's a drain pipe there. We must now ensure, with the help of development aid, that we also support their return and establishment in areas in Somalia that are designated as safe. Refugees have an average refugee status for 20 years. We need to support them so that they can start working, gain power over their own livelihood and start their own lives. There are some who have suggested that we do not increase humanitarian aid in the 2017 budget bill, but we do. We increase it by SEK 218 million, so there will be increased support for the organisations that work with this. But it is also very important to be able to work long-term, so that more people do not end up in wars and conflicts. State-building work and what Sweden is doing in Somalia, for example, is less sexy work that is not visible in the media. But there we are really working to strengthen a peaceful country for the future. Sofia Arkelsten asked about technology development. We are investing a great deal in improving the ability of developing countries to sign trade contracts, for example in the WTO context. In this context, we also want to strengthen their technical capacity. It's extremely important.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-255	Mr President, I would like to The Government did not have time to follow up on the budget. This time I will raise this first, so that it is first in the line of the next round of responses. I note that the link between the humanitarian and the long-term will be dealt with case by case. I also wonder a little – and this has to do with the long-term – how the Minister for Development views the perspective beyond aid. I am not talking about exit strategies, but rather about the success factors that make countries manage themselves and about state-building issues. Humanitarianism is the most powerful thing, but how do you think about what is beyond aid? Another issue that is important and that has been raised by many actors, especially Doctors Without Borders, is that of health care under attack. The Red Cross, which is guarding international humanitarian law, is also very concerned about this. What does Sweden do? Are we doing enough to deal with these issues? We have highlighted this a number of times on the part of the committee. Could the Government possibly, even though the time is short, say anything about who becomes the new Director General of Sida? It's the biggest authority. That would be interesting to know. At the moment, it is without a Director-General, and we find that sad. We are also concerned that there will be a very politicised appointment, but we assume that it will be a good person with great commitment.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Arkelsten. The recruitment of a Director General of Sida is carried out according to all the rules of art. We've been out advertising. A number of candidates are currently being tested on the basis of the criteria sought. It is a very transparent process. There will be no political appointments at all. When is it possible to follow up the budget? We have had a challenging situation in view of the refugee situation last year. Next week we will present the answer to the Swedish National Audit Office's evaluation and comments. It is important that it can be more predictable. At the same time, it can be noted that the Swedish National Audit Office says that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has handled this better in the past year. But there is, of course, a desire for us to be able to do this in a more predictable way, not least for those who are to receive aid. It is not so – speaking of last line – that we are trapped in a room and decide from a table. This autumn's amending budget is about the capacity of the various organisations to receive additional contributions at the end of the financial year. The humanitarian organisations, UNICEF, UNHCR, the UN Emergency Fund Cerf and others had a huge need to which they did not have the corresponding funding. That's why there was a bet on them. Medical care under attack and a lack of humanitarian respect are extremely important issues. It's something we're working on, but it's easier said than done. There are actors who do not respect the principles, not least non-state actors.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-263	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank Isabella Lövin, because I thought she made several very important points in her main speech. This morning, the Swedish Parliament's SRHR group, a group working on sexual and reproductive health and rights, held a seminar at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs on abortion law in the framework of feminist foreign policy. We had speakers from civil society and the UN system from several parts of the world. We talked together about the progress that has been arduously achieved in recent years, but also about the enormous challenges that remain in ensuring the right of all women and girls to their own body, sexuality and reproduction. What was so clear was that all the speakers had a huge cloud of concern before them: the new administration in the United States. When Donald Trump takes office in January, there are many of us who are convinced that among the first things he will do is start cutting US support on these issues. We know today that the United States finances efforts on sexual and reproductive health and rights for USD 600 million each year. A lot of this is probably going to make Donald Trump choose to cut back on. It is the fourth largest donor to the UNFPA family planning fund. You go in this year with 75 million U.S. dollars. I have met representatives of UNFPA who are already counting on it to go down to zero dollars after Trumps's entry. What is almost even worse is that you are absolutely convinced that Donald Trump will reintroduce what is known as the gag rule. All American support to civil society will be conditional on organisations not working for women's right to their own body, which would be an effective way of silencing many important voices, especially in the South. Then the question will be what the rest of the world does. The budget now on Parliament's table was agreed and presented before Donald Trump was elected. The question is: Is Isabella Lövin prepared to step in and increase support for organisations such as UNFPA or IPPF in January if we see that our fears come true?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-268	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Linde for the question and the concern, which is shared by a great many all over the world right now. I noticed it even when I was in Somalia and not least in Kenya. Concerns are not only about the SRHR and the direction of future US aid policy, but also about support for environmental funds. For example, the United States is monetaryly the third largest donor to the Green Climate Fund. Concerns are also about support for democracy and human rights, where the United States today plays an extremely important role in many African countries, such as Kenya. The question is what direction the US administration will take at all. I absolutely agree that Sweden will need to step in and be even clearer and probably more generous when it comes to SRHR issues. We are already the largest nuclear donor to UNFPA, UN Women and others. We hope that other countries that share our values can also step forward. We must see the consequences in other areas that are also high on the government's agenda. It is impossible to predict today. I can only say that today Donald Trump appoints a new head of the Environmental Protection Agency, which is a climate sceptic. This does not bode well for future climate work. Let's hope science can win in that case. There is a great deal of concern about the uncertainty of American aid policy. But much is decided in Congress. We'll have to trust that too.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-272	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Lövin is quite right, of course. We have cause for concern in a great many areas. The new US administration is likely to cut back and fully withdraw US support in many areas. This is particularly true in the climate area, as Isabella Lövin points out. The challenge with regard to the SRHR issues and many of the organisations is that today so few donors are already prepared to get involved and get involved in the issues. It is a small group of actors who are prepared to go in and, for example, finance efforts to ensure that girls and women have the right to safe abortions. This isn't Donald Trump. He's a single player. Unfortunately, he already has far too many allies. This applies not least within the European Union, where we see governments in Poland, Malta and other countries sharing his agenda and agenda. It is important that we now have a readiness in Sweden to step in quickly and be able to save important efforts from being completely phased out or completely discontinued. As politicians, you would like to be able to base yourself entirely on your own priorities, wishes and what you think is most important and passionate about. We are in a situation where there are many not only important but life-changing efforts in the short term that are at risk of being phased out. I welcome Isabella Lövin's response here. We need to see in all political parties this spring how we can act together in order to increase support for the various bodies now threatened by a future US administration. I also hope that in the forthcoming spring amending budget we can ensure that we go in and make adjustments to increase aid. I think it will be absolutely crucial that we go in and take an even greater responsibility for UNFPA, IPPF and other organisations that will unfortunately be attacked from day one by Donald Trumps's administration.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-278	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Linde. We must, of course, see how it develops. It can be said, however, that there has traditionally been a relatively large consensus between the Republicans and the Democrats in the US Congress on American Development Policy, with the exception of the SRHR. Many of the efforts are bound by law and may not be so easy to change, in my opinion, in a first year. It will have to be drawn through the regular channels. We'll just have to wait and see. We are very pleased that there is a large consensus in the Swedish parliament about SRHR but also about the environment and climate, democracy and human rights. Here it is important that we get a new and even greater leadership on these issues if we are to see long-term sustainable development simply.
i-M3JTU1ZZuuSdMNLNycJufV	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister of State Isabella Lövin, and Minister of State Peter Hultqvist and Minister Ann Linde. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-281	Madam President, I would like The Russian armaments are very worrying, the Secretary of Defense. The Russian behaviour in the Baltic Sea, with violations and provocations, gives rise to great concern in our country for what measures are being taken and not. Gazprom now wants to rent two harbours, Slite on Gotland and a harbour in Blekinge, to release the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline. The Commander-in-Chief warns against this. The reason for this is of course that the Russians could thus advance their positions in the Baltic Sea region and get an approach on G otland, this strategically important island in the middle of the Baltic Sea. The Socialist leader says that it is up to the government to stop; he cannot. The question to the Minister for Defence is therefore whether the government is prepared to stop the lease of Slite port to Putin.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-283	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is essential that this debate is conducted. It is a reality that we have a security policy situation that has deteriorated over time, and we can also put the gas pipeline in such a perspective. We have, of course, carried out a security policy analysis in this context, and we have taken in evidence from both the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities. We have invited the municipalities to a discussion on 13 December and, of course, the defence and security policy aspects of this matter will be discussed at that time. We will come back with more information on the matter at a later date.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-285	Madam President, I would like The answer is unsatisfactory and unclear. This is not a new question, but we have known for a long time that the application would come. It is urgent – Gotland's decision-making body will make decisions soon. The Liberals' call to the government and the Minister for Defence is therefore: Don't be naive! Stop the rental of the harbour on Gotland to Putin. Don't hand over the keys to Slite Port to the Russians!
i-b136d9c000f52d16-286	Madam President, I would like There is no naivety whatsoever in government policy in the area of defence and security policy. We have been conducting a debate on developments in Russia for a long time. I myself had some problems to hear about this during the previous government period, when the tone deafness was quite powerful. We're not gonna be naive. We're going to take care of the case. So we have a meeting on 13 December and then we will give an analysis of the situation. Then we'll get back to you.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-289	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Mikael Damberg. Recently, there has been quite a big debate about this with welfare companies. In many cases, it is actually about women's opportunities to start and run businesses on the same terms as men. We can look at procurement rules, not least: When municipalities are going to build a school or other property, it is a matter of procurement to various construction companies – you don't have many to choose from – but they rarely or never talk about which one of these construction companies can take out. This can then be compared with whether a procurement of health and long-term care services is made. I would therefore like to put the question to the Government: what is the view on gender equality? This is supposed to be a feminist government, but in this case it turns out that you have completely different views on entrepreneurship. Isn't that supposed to be the same condition?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-292	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Gunther for the question. Welfare is not just any business and not just any market. High quality requirements are imposed on public activities. We have requirements for transparency and public access to publicly funded activities, and we are calling for greater freedom of communication for activities run by public funds, whether private or public. We therefore place higher demands on activities that are publicly funded than we do on other activities, and that is what the government thinks is good. We have a study that has presented a proposal that sets higher quality requirements but also discusses how we should ensure that more of the tax money really goes to the business that is supposed to be carried out for the tax money. In these businesses, many women work, and they are also committed to their wage development being good and that it is good staffing where they work. The question of stopping the pursuit of profit in welfare is therefore definitely a question of women's entrepreneurship, but it is also a question of women's working conditions.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-295	Madam President, I would like I cannot be satisfied with the answer, for the following reason: if the municipalities had been more careful about the type of services I mentioned, not only would more money have been spent on women's salaries in the health and social care sector, but also more use could have been made of the concept of quality in public procurement. So my question remains. How can women's entrepreneurship be promoted when these unequal conditions exist?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-296	Madam President, I would like The question is bigger than that. Not all public activities are procured – the school sector has a completely different regulatory framework, where it is also important to set quality requirements and ensure that the business is of high quality. As far as procurement requirements are concerned, we note that we have had another political debate in this House where the bourgeois parties joined forces with the Swedish Democrats and prevented us from making proper demands for collective agreements or collective agreement-like conditions in public procurement. This is of course important for those who work in welfare and with public procurement – that these are the nicest conditions.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-299	Madam President, I would like My question is intended for Minister Ann Linde, and it is about Brexit. On Midsummer's morning, the world awoke to a referendum result that means that Britain will leave the EU. It is approaching now; before March you should have submitted a notification. I think this is very boring, but it is especially boring for Sweden. Because we will lose one of our best allies in the European Union. There are also a lot of Swedes working in the UK, and we have a lot of trade with the UK. Since we still have to look ahead – a short note – I would like to ask Minister Linde how the government is preparing to continue to have good relations with the UK when it leaves the EU.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-302	Madam President, I would like I thank Marie Granlund for the question. Brexit is a fact, and it will be a great loss for the EU – and perhaps even more for the UK. What we have done in the Government Office is that all departments have been allowed to analyse what cooperation we have with the United Kingdom. This will consolidate what Marie Granlund says. In almost all areas apart from social and labour market issues, we work very closely with the United Kingdom. We wish to continue to do so. That is why we want the negotiations to take place in such a way that we will have as close cooperation as possible with the United Kingdom, while at the same time the main objective is that the EU-27 can function effectively and stick together. We have therefore also given a number of government missions to five authorities.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-304	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is of course very important that it is prepared in the best way, because we have so many relationships and relationships. I have seen that the Government has been active on the issue of the Food Authority: When it moves, it would be very good if it came to Sweden. I would like the Government to develop a little how we work on this issue. Then I think there is a given place in Sweden where it should be located, but we can come back to that.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-306	Madam President, I would like This concerns the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products. No-Reger today decided that we should launch a campaign to get the European Medicines Agency to Sweden. In that decision, which I do not know will be completely positive for Marie Granlund, we propose that it be located in Stockholm – the Uppsala region. The analysis we have carried out shows that there will be a struggle between capital cities. However, we have good hope that Sweden is one of the top candidates.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-307	Madam President, I would like Nord Stream 2 is not in Europe's interest. Europe does not need more Russian fossil gas. Nord Stream 2 is contrary to the EU Energy Union and should also be seen in the light of the deteriorating security situation. There is now a debate on the risk of Russian pipes and other activities in Slite harbour and in Karlshamn. For my part, I can say that I have constant contact with the Moderates locally. The opposition council Magnus Gärdebring in Karlshamn and the group leader Simon Härenstam on Gotland are clear in their no. Other things are local social democrats. A meeting between leading S-representatives and the government will therefore be held on 13 December. In fact, it is in no way forbidden to look to the nation's best interests, preferably from Gotland and Blekinge, where many are aware of the need for a strong Swedish defence capability. The question to Peter Hultqvist is: what does the meeting on 13 December want to achieve? I myself would like to see an injection of willingness to say no to the Social Democrats responsible at all levels. Should Peter Hultqvist just sit and watch if the invited do not understand the seriousness?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-311	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the important question. I don't know if I'm directly known for just sitting in the stands and watching in different contexts. Each one of us will decide what it's like to do that. The problem with being a minister is that one has to deal with different types of regulations, above all one that means that one does not end up in the Constitutional Committee. I have carefully studied what I can do and what I cannot do and what I can say in different situations without any huddled Member having reason to register. So this is not as simple as Wallmark is trying to say. We are now trying to implement this, with respect for the parliament's regulations and what applies to the government's ability to act. We have now invited you to a meeting on 13 December. It is not a meeting in any therapeutic sense, but it is about Sweden's defence and security policy interests. Then we return, just as I told Björklund.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-314	Madam President, I would like Let us agree that Minister Hultqvist can nod confirmation on what I am about to say: It is good that there will be a meeting with the regional representatives. And it would be good if the regional representatives of the Social Democrats on Gotland and in Karlshamn understand the seriousness of this and thus will not contribute to the fact that there will be Russian pipes or other activities in Slite harbour and in Karlshamn. This does not require a long lamentation from the Minister of Defence. It's enough with a confirmatory head joiner.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-317	Madam President, I would like The legislation is as it is. I'm well aware of the boundaries. But Wallmark is an expert at trying to lure me into transgressions of various kinds. This was one of the more refined methods so far. There'll be a meeting on December 13th. Then we'll get back to you. We have a defence and security policy analysis, and that is a thorough job done on that point.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-320	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. The results have turned upwards in the latest PISA survey, which was presented on Tuesday. Regardless of who should take credit, it is a very gratifying development. Smolk in the cup of joy, however, is that the results for students with foreign background are still lagging behind. The difference between pupils with domestic background and those with foreign background is still greater than the OECD average. What is the government's reaction to that? We could also note a deterioration in equivalence and the continuing importance of socio-economic background. What has the government been thinking about these messages? I saw it was an interview with Löfven One this morning, but it didn't say much.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-323	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the question is very important. It is a huge job victory for teachers, principals and other employees in Sweden's schools and not least for students that you can see a turn in school results like this. This applies not only to PISA but also to TIMSS, the big survey on mathematics. This confirms the view that we must continue to give priority to school, including in economic terms. We've made a lot of investments in the school. It is about early intervention and about investments in teachers. It is a question of removing administrative tasks for teachers. But it's also about – and that's the work we'll be changing up in the future – the work for greater equivalence. What is still going in the wrong direction in the PISA study is the widening gap and, above all, the socio-economic background. Who your parents are is increasingly deciding how you are doing at school. This is an unacceptable development. We've had a long-term trend. This government is determined to make the issue of high quality and knowledge requirements in schools but also greater equivalence our top priority.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-326	Madam President, I would like I don't think there's any more money needed. We have a model of preparatory schools for new arrivals, so that they learn the language first and so that students with a lack of language skills should not steal too much time from students with adequate language skills. This may have negative effects later in future PISA studies. Does the government have any concrete proposals in this area? Have you thought about it?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-328	Madam President, I would like There are now several suggestions on the table. Not least the comprehensive school inquiry has looked at the issue of extended compulsory education for those students who have come late to Sweden to complete their primary education. We take several initiatives to target the schools with the greatest problems – they are located both in suburban areas around our major cities and in old industrial towns, where the culture of education does not exist in the same way as in many other places. I think we have concluded 100 such agreements. It is about targeted resources and support and assistance for these schools. We will continue.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-330	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Linde. Sweden received more asylum seekers in autumn 2015 than other countries in Europe. We took responsibility together with some countries in Europe. Now other EU countries must show that they also take responsibility. We now see that the measures taken so far by the government are working. The introduction of ID checks, together with a time-limited tightening of asylum legislation, are essential elements for asylum seekers and so on. In this situation, Sweden cannot be more generous than other EU countries. But we must have a system of solidarity. What is happening in the EU?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-333	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. The government is pushing for a system of solidarity in which all countries take responsibility. In Europe, there are some who talk about effective solidarity. I honestly wonder what they mean by that. Solidarity cannot be a choice of its own when it comes to fulfilling international and EU commitments. It is very important for the EU to reach an agreement on the issue of solidarity and responsibility. The EU must be able to demonstrate its capacity for action and unity. All Member States must participate and contribute to the reception of asylum seekers in crisis situations. That is a minimum requirement. When it comes to the reform of the common asylum system, the negotiations have begun in all seven legal acts. But you've come different ways. The picture is complicated, also because there are many cross-references between legal acts. The most difficult issue at the moment is the Dublin Regulation and the issue of burden-sharing and solidarity.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-337	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is important that we have a solidarity-based asylum system within the EU that ensures a legally secure and humane asylum process throughout the Union and that, by extension, can assist more people in need of international protection.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-338	Madam President, I would like The commitment that we managed to get the EU to agree on resettlement was that there would be 22 500 seats. This was already agreed in July last year. Today there are as much as 10 652 seats left, i.e. places that have not yet been used. Sweden's share was 491 people, and we granted all 491 permanent residence permits during the spring.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-341	Madam President, I would like A year ago, world leaders sat in a meeting that came to be historic. They gathered and set the necessary targets to curb an unsustainable climate crisis. Since then, enthusiasm and commitment have also characterised a number of international processes and, for that matter, national decisions. At the same time, we are seeing how a de facto climate-denialist will soon take up one of the world's most powerful offices, and I would like to ask climate minister Isabella Lövin: How does the climate minister assess the chances of success in the international climate work ahead and the chances of achieving the ambitious goals set out in the Paris Agreement?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I represented Sweden in Marrakech at the climate summit a few weeks ago. Of course, news of Trumps's profit was a concern for the world's countries. The declarations that we do not want to participate in the UN's climate work are well-known. But it was also very clear that the countries of the world stand by the Paris Agreement. China, India and others have been very clear about continuing, and that development will not be able to change. On the other hand, there is concern when it comes to climate finance, because the rich countries of Copenhagen promised to help the poor countries convert to renewable energy and adaptation. If, in the long term, the United States withdraws from funding, others will have to take their place if we are to cope with this change.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-346	Madam President, I would like I am glad we got into the issue of climate finance. We know that this is absolutely necessary not least for the poor in the world to be able to cope with the transition and the consequences of climate change. Sixty-six per cent of the world's poor are women. Despite this, a small part of the disappearance is directed towards women's efforts. How does the feminist government work for women, linked to international climate work?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-348	Madam President, I would like I am very proud that Sweden is the largest donor per capita to the UN's Green Climate Fund. We have also pushed through the fact that there is now a gender equality policy in the Climate Fund so that sufficient resources are directed towards women. It is women who fetch water, it is women who collect wood and fuel, and it is they who benefit most from solar energy and easily accessible renewable energy that will change and revolutionize their lives. You bet on the women, it'll be a lot faster!
i-b136d9c000f52d16-351	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg, and the theme is technology and business. Drones are a great opportunity for business, for example for agriculture and forestry. You get fast data on the image to be able to sow and harvest, accessible paths are displayed as well as trees falling and so on. This is a bigger question than you might think, and now it has come across patrol. Properly managed, this picture material can provide short paths and less work between authorities and traders. Different departments have different parts in this regard, and I understand that it is in the Ministry of Justice for handling. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is: Is the Ministry of Industry on the train on this issue so that business is not slowed down?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-355	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Of course we at the Ministry of Enterprise are on this issue, perhaps not just on the train but in the air, with the drones. So we have new legislation in place. It has been given a more restrictive interpretation in courts than we might have expected. Above all, perhaps the bourgeois government that introduced the legislation did not expect the legislation to have this interpretation. It is working on a review of the legislation, and Morgan Johansson has made it clear that we should also see whether something can be done earlier on by the departments, rather than the whole issue having to be resolved in an investigation.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We were a lot of members of parliament who visited outside Helsingborg on Friday precisely because of the question from various parties, including Mikael Damberg. I think that this is both desirable and good, and I would like to put pressure on the issue to be dealt with quickly so that it does not stop.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-360	Madam President, I would like I think there is a broad consensus in Sweden that new technologies and innovations can help to find new ways to solve things more effectively. Drones are used today in many more sectors than just five years ago. It's a huge development. We also have successful Swedish companies that are driving development, so there are good economic opportunities and growth opportunities in using drones to facilitate everyday life not least for farmers, in community planning and many other sectors of society. We are therefore looking forward to trying to find a solution to this.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-362	Madam President, I would like The security situation is serious. Strategically important functions that ports need to be protected from Russian state interests. Gotland is almost in decision-making position. Next week is the first time to decide. Karlshamn harbour company also has a meeting next week. We know that in lucia, on 13 December, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence have a meeting with representatives from there. This may seem a little late, as there are only a few days left to decide. My question to the Minister for Defence is: Is there a reason to review strategically important and central functions in order to protect them from the presence of Russian state interests so that the municipal and other actors know what should be done?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-365	Madam President, I would like I believe that the bourgeois side is well aware of what legislation looks like. After all, it was the one who governed the approval of Nord Stream 1 that the previous government supported. This is not a simple matter to take on. On the other hand, we should look at whether there are legislative options that can be used in a future. Now we are here on a specific matter. It must be dealt with on the basis of the legislation that is currently in force if we are not able to change current legislation quickly, which I do not currently have any idea of. That is an important issue. We have a thorough handling of all the rules of art in the Government Office. We have this conversation next week, and then we will come back to the matter. All aspects of defence and security policy that can be taken into account are highlighted in the internal preparation that precedes that meeting.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. It was not, however, a question of the extent to which it intends to take action. We are not talking about Nord Stream and the Convention on the Law of the Sea. It is about Swedish central vital security interests. Can they be clearly protected in the future so that there is no doubt, as has now been done, about what should apply? Does the Secretary of Defense share ÖB's and the Center Party's opinion and advise against renting?
i-Tp5mZ6e4sQA3mBSF58TWTx	Madam President, I would like The previous government complied with the Convention on the Law of the Sea and approved Nord Stream 1. Then it was also business in Slite port. Then the previous government did not take any action. What we are trying to do is analyse all the possibilities that exist. We have also carried out a security policy analysis on the basis of the current situation today. We will come back to this at the meeting on 13 December. Then we will come back in other contexts so that it becomes public.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-371	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense could have stayed because I also have a question for him about Nord Stream. The Secretary of Defense always wants to come back to the fact that it was a decision made by the previous government, and now the government will follow in the same way. Let me remind you that we are now living in a different time. Let me remind you that it was before the events in Ukraine and when Russia entered Crimea. Let me also remind you that Ukraine has had bad experiences of lending a port to Russia. That was exactly what they had done. The port in Crimea had been rented out, and we know what happened. We must also remind the House and the government that, time and again, we do not understand Russia's actions. When the ÖB has been so clear and said that this is a bad idea, what else does the government and the Minister of Defence need before you put your foot down? The clock is ticking, and it's time for a message.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-374	Madam President, I would like I would just like to remind you that I was among those who voted for the voting button 'no' to Nord Stream 1 in Parliament. Mikael Oscarsson was among the second group to vote in favour of Nord Stream 1. I would just like to remind you of the fundamental fact of the matter before the volume of sound and excitement becomes too great in this context. We are trying to deal with the issue in accordance with existing regulations. What else do we need from information? We don't need any more information! Oscarsson's all wrong. We have done an analysis of the issue. We will discuss this with the municipalities next week, and then we will come back. I have said this so many times now that I believe that the message has come forward. We'll get back to you once we've had the call. It is sometimes interesting to recall history. You forget so fast. The political memory is short.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-378	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Secretary of Defense voted against. Then you can act now with clarity. This is where the decision is to be made. This is where clear leadership is needed. It must not be the case, Madam President, that it is the 50 million, which I understand that the local Social Democratic politicians have in mind, that is to decide. Now you have to put your foot down, show clear leadership and deliver a clear njet. A clear position must be delivered by the Swedish Government on the lease of Slite harbour.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-381	Madam President, I would like Since I am not naive and I am aware of the propensity to report the KU, I would just like to remind you that I am not going to trample any traps on how to deal with the matter. Clarity and action must comply with the acquis in the rulebook. I would be a little careful to say that it is only about money on Gotland. We'll have to get back to the case. There is a defence and security policy analysis that is thorough and thorough.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-383	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. When the new Karolinska Hospital was to be built in Stockholm, the Alliance in the Stockholm County Council decided to use controversial OPS procurement, i.e. private-public collaboration. This happened despite the fact that the model was relatively untested in Sweden and that in the UK it proved to have major deficiencies. The consequences of the bad agreement reached have been extremely costly. Stockholm County Council has enormous healthcare challenges in everything from maternity care, emergency room capacity and delayed operations – even for severely ill children. Thus, instead of investing in more doctors and midwives, tax money has been wasted, which affects the inhabitants of the Stockholm region in particular. My question is what lessons the government thinks can be drawn from the disastrous agreement entered into by the Alliance of Stockholm County Councils and how we can work to avoid ending up in this sad situation again.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Völker, for the question! As Minister of Economic Affairs, I can see benefits if there are opportunities to use OPS as a way to increase investments in Sweden and make more investments. It creates jobs in Sweden. Unfortunately, the OPS procurement of New Karolinska shows once again that if you are not good at such things, it will fail. From the beginning they talked about costs for Nya Karolinska at about SEK 6 billion. Now we are talking about SEK 60 billion up to 2040. It is barely a week without new scandals from the Stockholm County Council about procurement and other things. It used to be socks. Now it was consulting services for SEK 2.2 billion. That corresponds to the cost of over 4,000 nurses. Of course, I think that Moderates' actions in Stockholm County Council are lowering the idea of OPS solutions. There will be no political support to be able to work with industry to drive investment unless solutions are developed in a wise way that actually works.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-390	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is only possible to agree with what the Government says about how badly this has been handled and what the consequences are. It is gratifying that the Minister for Economic Affairs will take with him to consider how this can be done better. I think we all agree that we do not want to see this situation repeated, especially for the sake of the citizens.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-391	Madam President, I would like The government needs to look at the question, but I also think that the Moderates and Anna Kinberg Batra should look at the issue. In some way, a crisis commission is needed to sort out the economy in Stockholm County Council. This is killing the entire financial credibility of the Moderates. If you cannot lead Stockholm County Council on economic issues, how can you be involved in leading Sweden's economy in a decent way? It is also important to restore confidence in OPS solutions. They can be a working model to drive more investments.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-392	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. My question concerns, among other things, the supply of military service and personnel. In 2014, the government decided to grant the Swedish Armed Forces the right to call military personnel for refresher training. Now there is a complete investigation that I know the Secretary of Defense is well acquainted with. When it eventually lands for decision with the government, will the government include the whole issue of total defence duty? The investigation doesn't point to all the details. This also includes a female duty within the framework of total defence. I have one more question. It is linked to the fact that Sweden is moving towards perhaps entering into a defence alliance with Finland, a cooperation beyond peace-time conditions, i.e. war and war-like conditions. Can the Secretary of Defense comment?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. Of course, this is a matter of total defence duty. A decision to activate the obligation of total defence is a decision that the government can make. It is not in the formal sense that the Riksdag makes such a decision. Through Annika Nordgren Christensen, the Government has commissioned an investigation, considering that the current system has not been able to handle dressing filling and has not delivered trained and functional units. We have to do something so that it can be supplemented. Within the framework of peacetime cooperation with Finland, we are preparing for scenarios beyond peacetime conditions. It's an ongoing planning work. These are not ex ante obligations, but they require, in a given situation, a specific decision to activate that type of planning.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-399	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I'm going to comment on Slite Port. We have said that we share the defence minister's view on this issue, and we are now waiting on Tuesday – although we have not yet found the invitation. I'm sure it'll come. We have given our information, and we think it is reasonable for you to take this position next week. We have said this to the press, and I am also saying this to you, Peter Hultqvist. We await this. We think it is a good and well-managed decision.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-401	Madam President, I would like The issue of Slite harbour is a source of great commitment, but it also requires care in the processes and that you take every step in the right way so that you do not tread wrong. I have respect for all the views expressed, but I hope that there is also respect for the fact that the role of the Minister of State requires certain considerations and adaptations, including to the regulations that the Riksdag itself has decided on. As I said, we will come back to the matter.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-405	Madam President, I would like My question is to Mikael Damberg. The Minister has worked on an export strategy for Sweden, and in this work he has stressed the importance of good communications. He has specifically pointed to the need for more direct flights. In an interview, the Minister said that it is important for Sweden's long-term position in a trading world to have good communications to the rest of the world. We must ensure that the Nordic countries and Scandinavia become important to the rest of the world. ..................................................... I fully share the Minister's view that good communications are needed if our companies are to compete in an increasingly tough global market. But if you really are serious about this, if you really are serious about the claim that we are going to manage well internationally and that we need good communications, why, at the same time, go forward with a flight tax?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I think that everyone who thinks about climate issues in particular knows that the transport sector must bear more of its socio-economic costs. It is also a principle that I believe has been expressed by the Swedish Parliament. It is clear that when you look at aviation's global emissions, but also the share of emissions coming from Swedish citizens, you realise that aviation today does not bear its socio-economic costs. Therefore, the Government appointed an investigation that has made a proposal that will now be sent for referral, prepared and analysed in the Government Office. There are several other countries that have introduced aviation taxes in different ways. In Europe alone it is Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Norway and Austria. Several countries with which we are competing on the world market have introduced various forms of aviation taxes. But Sweden is also a long country, a country that should stick together. We have transport policy objectives, and that is why it must be balanced proposals that the government makes in order to keep Sweden together.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-413	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I certainly share the view that a flight tax can be discussed, but it must be done at a global level because aviation is a global mode of transport. If you introduce it in Sweden alone, it risks affecting Swedish companies unilaterally. We can't afford that. After all, they are also affected by an entrepreneurial tax, by taxes on employees in banking and insurance, by kilometre tax and by an increase in petrol tax, to name a few. Here comes the plane tax. How will all these taxes together contribute to Swedish competitiveness?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-416	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Moderates do not care about climate policy or dare to go ahead in any area of climate policy is not surprising or new. Nor is it surprising that the Moderates always believe that the solution to all that has to do with politics is reduced tax. But then there will also be less well-being, less resources for research and less investment in infrastructure – or in defence, as we were talking about just now. We have abandoned the model of greatly reduced taxes. We invest in a stronger Sweden that leads to more jobs and more growing companies.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-419	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. We're about to celebrate New Year's again. That leaves four years of the current orientation decision-making period for defence decisions and issues. Since that decision was taken in the spring of 2015– a defence committee was also carried out in the past – a lot has happened that affects our and our Nordic neighbours' security policy situation. There are many analyses that show that it is getting worse. The question is whether the measures we have decided on are sufficient. Do we need to bring forward total defence planning? Is the government prepared to restart the work on defence preparation in early 2017? In the Center Party, we are. We also have an objective of an additional EUR 11 billion per year for future defence preparations.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-423	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue. We are now in the delivery phase of current defense decisions. These include two new submarines, the next generation JAS Gripen, new anti-tank capabilities, short and medium range in an anti-aircraft, grenade launcher systems, sensors, better submarine hunting capabilities and the Armed Forces base plate. These are a wide range of such measures combined with different types of international engagement, exercise activities and agreements with other countries and the longest-going relationship with Finland. This is the kind of thing that enhances military capabilities. We're far from done, but we've come a long way. We're starting to deliver. The most important thing in order to achieve increased military capability is that we deliver what we agree on and have decided. I'm going to set up a defense committee next year. It has, of course, a delicate task. The aim of this must be to increase the military capability in Sweden. The financing components of this will have to be returned to.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-427	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for that answer. It is extremely important that we continue the dialogue and that we focus also on the short-term, on what is to come in the coming years. My question to the Minister is whether the government intends to commission the relevant authorities to carry out a security inventory to identify and take the additional level-setting measures necessary to meet a new, changing situation in security policy.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-430	Madam President, I would like An upcoming defence preparation will receive an enormous amount of material from different authorities, where safety will be analysed from all angles and corners. I myself was in the former defence preparation; I know that this type of matter is being delivered. The perspective plan presented by the Swedish Armed Forces is one such document that I believe will be useful. I assume – I can almost say – that a future defence preparation takes into account such things.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-432	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister for Development Isabella Lövin. Sweden is a small nation with a big heart. Every year there are many people from Sweden who go out in various forms of aid projects. Most of the time, it's going great. It will be an exchange that strengthens both those on the spot and those who go back home to Sweden. But sometimes bad things happen. A couple of years ago a Swede was shot in Somalia during a visit there and died. For family members and those involved in aid, it is important that a legal process is brought about. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Development is: If a Swedish aid worker is killed, how does the Swedish Government work in principle to ensure that a legal process is brought about in the country?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the important question. Unfortunately, there is a worrying trend in the world that more and more aid workers and humanitarian workers are being killed, kidnapped, beaten and living in very uncertain conditions. Here, Sweden works in principle to ensure that the humanitarian principles are respected and people who work to alleviate distress should be perceived as neutral and not be able to be attacked. On this issue, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has the principle of always helping Swedish citizens abroad with legal aid, contact with lawyers and everything around. Whether you're an aid worker or not, it's here. Safety assessments are, of course, made and advised against dangerous situations.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-440	Madam President, I would like Not only aid workers but also those involved in aid are at increased risk of being harassed or, at worst, murdered when they are in place. I hope that the Minister will continue to work on the question and thank you for the answer!
i-b136d9c000f52d16-441	Madam President, I would like I just got back from Somalia, where I was last week. It is one of the world's most dangerous environments to be in, and the security arrangements surrounding my visit were enormous. There we have our Swedish ambassador and other aid workers working every week, and they are heroes. We naturally support in every way from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Sida that their work should be as safe as possible.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-442	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Defence Hultqvist. I would like to begin by wishing you luck next week in convincing the party colleagues of the seriousness of the situation, when the municipal councillor in Karlshamn does not realise the problem. My question concerns the following: Sweden has been involved in international peace efforts around the world for over 60 years, often under very dangerous conditions. Swedish veterans deserve the great respect and support of both decision-makers and the population. Since 2009, we have a veteran policy, and since 2011 is the 29th May veteran day. I have asked the Minister for Defence, who was referred to the Minister for Justice, whether it intends to take any initiative to make 29 May also a flag day. That's not what the Attorney General intended to do. Now we have Question Time, and I therefore put the question to the Minister for Defence: will the Minister for Defence take any initiatives?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. This is a very serious matter. Many people have made tremendous efforts in international missions. It also took too long for these people to be fully appreciated. Medals took place long after missions were completed. I think it was a good thing that veteran day was introduced on 29 May, and I think it is important to be present this day. I have not really considered and taken a position on the issue of flag day, but it has now been significantly lifted in this House. I'm going to think about this and I'm going to come back in a different context, based on my possibilities and positions. Thank you for the suggestion and the idea!
i-b136d9c000f52d16-447	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your positive answer. Sounds like an open door. We are several Moderates, including the undersigned, who have been exercising this in Parliament for many years, and now, on the part of the Moderates, we also have a party general meeting decision on the matter. Next year, the Social Democrats will hold a congress. With this hopeful approach, it sounds as if there is a possibility that we can also have an S-Congress decision on this. Come on, Secretary of Defense!
i-b136d9c000f52d16-448	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to get ahead of myself. I think the idea is interesting and should take a serious consideration of this. We'll have to get back to you on the matter.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-449	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Damberg. Last week, EU space ministers met, and Sweden chose to announce that the ESA should not receive as much money as before. Thus, Sweden cannot fully fulfil its commitment in the Ariane launcher programme, which has previously been an important part of it. The government's announcement means that our space industry, which currently employs approximately 150 qualified people in Trollhättan, is being undermined and is likely to close down in the near future. The decision also means that the 30-year commitment will be withdrawn at short notice, thereby delaying the launch programme in Europe.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-452	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Lars Helmered knows that I am not a Minister for Space, but I can try to answer the question anyway, because it is very much related to industrial policy. First of all, it is the Swedish National Space Board that handles the matter and makes the priorities within the framework of its activities. There is no reduction in appropriations for the programme. However, the carrying rocket program is 250-300 million SEK above the estimated levels in 2017– 2019. The Space Board is responsible for the agreements it has signed for the Ariane 5 and 6 launchers, and last spring GKN received a new support within this framework. Now they want more money, and the National Space Board estimates that the money can do more good in other parts of the space program. It is the Space Board that has made this priority; there has been no reduction in government appropriations.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-455	Madam President, I would like It is true that the budget is about the same level, but the fact is that the government at the Space Ministerial meeting announced that less money is linked to the Ariane programme. It is also a fact that what can literally be called rocket research in Trollhättan as an effect will be put down; these are incredibly qualified jobs. Furthermore, the responsible Minister Hellmark Knutsson has been courted on the matter, and neither she nor the other government has lifted a finger to save rocket research in Trollhättan– I wonder why.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-456	Madam President, I would like The Space Board, which manages the funds and this money, believes that if you are going to increase the funds beyond the current plans, the money will be more useful in other parts of the space program. This is the assessment of the National Space Board, but it has been clear that it is happy to comply with the agreements it has entered into regarding Ariane 5 and 6.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-457	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. Some of Sweden's strongest brands are in the area of design. It is about artistic design but also about industrial design. Sweden has strong traditions but also strong positions in, for example, design, fashion and furniture design and is also met with a growing national and international interest. We also see that design and design are becoming increasingly important in several industries, but also that these activities are very different when it comes to the process of creation and therefore may need other types of efforts and support to develop. My question is: What does the government do to promote Swedish design in Sweden and internationally, and what else can we do?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-459	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Bergman, for an important question! I think people don't really understand how big a role design plays today for sectors other than their own. Design builds value in many other industries that you work with but also creates a very positive and modern image of Sweden internally. We are good in this area. This is also why we have entered into a new collaboration – an investment of SEK 28 million over four years to promote Swedish design internationally. We will work with more export of Swedish design but actually also pay attention to design in Sweden so that many of the tourists and others interested in Sweden can come here and experience what Swedish design has achieved. It is a broad collaboration with the entire industry that is linked to design-Sweden. I think it is developing very positively and will start rolling out at the beginning of next year.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-461	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very good answer! That sounds very promising. The responsibility for promoting Swedish design and design, but also artistic design in various forms, lies not only with the Ministry of Industry but also with the Ministry of Culture. Is there a collaboration between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Culture when it comes to developing support for design? If so, is the Minister of Economic Affairs satisfied with this cooperation, or can it be further developed?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-463	Madam President, I would like There is definitely a collaboration with the Ministry of Culture but also with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which actually has a very important part in not least the Swedish Institute and the image of Sweden abroad. There are quite a few actors who can collaborate to help develop and promote Swedish design.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-465	Madam President, I would like The President-designate of the United States of America Trump has stated how he views the United States and its unwillingness or hesitation to be helpful in the event of a conflict in Europe. This is worrying, and it speaks in favour of Swedish NATO membership. The United States is only one of 28 nations in NATO. NATO is also led by Secretary-Jens Stoltenberg and not by the President of the United States. FOI's report on Russian military capabilities in a ten-year perspective from 2016, published today, states among other things: In the light of the latest year's development, we assess the available capabilities for military operations based on the assumption that Russia takes the initiative to use military force. The report also notes that Russian military capabilities have been strengthened and are increasing. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence: why does he see that a bilateral defence arrangement with the US is safer than multilateral membership of NATO – with the benefit of Article 5?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-468	Madam President, I would like A Swedish ambition to join NATO would, with rapid fermity, lead to a fairly substantial increase in tension in our part of Europe. It would also put enormous pressure on our neighbouring country, Finland, which has a long border with Russia. If you want such a development, you should put all the cards on it, but I do not think that is the most talented way of dealing with defence and security policy at the moment. We haven't put all the eggs in a basket and invested only in the relationship with the United States. On the other hand, we have significantly deepened this relationship during the period we have been in government power. However, it is only one of many cooperations we have: we have NATO partnership, the UK, the Baltic countries, Finland, Nordefco, Denmark, Poland, France and all international operations. I have just started a dialogue with Germany. The idea is to create such cooperation that we can use to meet threats in our neighbourhood.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-471	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. On the contrary, the government-appointed investigation led by Ambassador Bringéus pointed out that a Swedish NATO membership would strengthen the relationship in the Baltic Sea and make the Baltic Sea safer, so I do not really buy that piece. If we now want so many different bilateral agreements, I think full NATO membership is much, much better. There's Article 5.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-473	Madam President, I would like I can only remind you that this was part of the defence decision, which Lena Asplund also pressed the yes button for in Parliament. We execute the Riksdag's decisions, spirit and direction. Many of the security policy analyses of NATO membership point to the fact that we have to expect an increased tension in our part of Europe. I don't see that as an advantage. However, I think that the model we have to handle is well adapted to our geography and location.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-475	Madam President, I would like My question was originally meant to be addressed to Mikael Damberg, but EU Minister Ann Linde is also happy to answer it. You'll have to settle that. Madam President, I would like The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has been discussed earlier during Question Time. It is an authority that will leave Britain on the day Brexit becomes a reality. This is an important authority. We have had interpellation debates earlier on it, and I think it is good that the government has today signalled that Sweden should be involved in fighting to get the agency here. However, I am a little surprised that it is already being categorically said that this authority will land in the Uppsala-Stockholm region. There are good reasons for that, but there are also very good reasons to place it in a Gothenburg environment, where we have Astra Zeneca's fantastic research hub. What analysis is behind categorically choosing to invest in the Stockholm region for this authority?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-479	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. Before the government decided today to take the decision to launch a regular campaign to get the European Medicines Agency here, we made a fairly comprehensive analysis. It is partly about what is needed to be attractive, partly about what our competitors will look like and partly about how the competition itself will go about. Actually it is not a competition, but we think about what it will be like when you eventually make the decision. The analysis resulted, firstly, in the fact that we believe that Sweden is one of a handful of countries that have the opportunity to get the authority; secondly, that there will be a huge competition between capitals. We therefore believe that Sweden is better placed to get it if we have a capital alternative, and we connect it to Stockholm-Uppsala. We also believe that it will benefit both Västra Götaland and Lund-Malmö, which has a strong science centre.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-481	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The article in Today's Industry today does not mention Mölndal and Astra Zeneca's fantastic research hub with a single word. It's a little provocative. It would be great benefits to connect this extremely strong and for Sweden important life science platform to a new authority. This is an opportunity that I hope the government will be able to open up so that we can look at another location.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-482	Madam President, I would like In addition to Stockholm-Uppsala, it is just Västra Götaland but also Lund-Malmö who are the two most important pharmaceutical and life science centres alongside Stockholm-Uppsala. If we get the authority here, I think it will have effects that are positive also for Västra Götaland and the cities that the honourable Member mentioned there and for Skåne. I hope that it will be a really good collaboration and that we all work to get the authority here to Sweden.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-484	Thank you, fellow Members and Minister of State.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-485	Madam President, I would like The other day we were told that the leader and coordinator of the Christian Democratic opposition movement in Cuba, MCL, Eduardo Gardet, have been imprisoned. He's now waiting for trial. It's a fake charge. He was arrested because he visited Miami and met politicians there who were reported to have supported the MCL campaign A Cuban, one vote. In Belarus, we see our sister party BPF being subjected to constant harassment in the form of petty fines to the active. We had the leaders of the Youth League visiting here not long ago. He lives at his grandmother's house, and he told him how he has seen the fridge, freezer, oven, and other things being carried out of his grandmother's apartment. In my speech, I spoke about the importance of supporting these heroes who stand up for democracy and human rights and who want to see change.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-489	Madam President, I would like Since 2012, 90 laws have been passed around the world that limit the scope and freedom of civil society. This is a serious setback for the development of democracy and civil society in the world. The Government has commissioned Sida to look in particular at how, through development cooperation, we can further strengthen our work to support civil society. This should, of course, be done with emphasis on human rights, democracy and freedom of expression, which includes the role of the media. This is something we have been working on for a long time, but there is reason to look at how we can improve that work in the light of the repressive tendencies that we see around the world. Freedom of expression is a very important issue, as is the role of journalists. It is important that we stand up for these values and help those who have a difficult and dangerous job in their countries on these issues.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-493	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I mentioned the proposal for a freedom fund that could be a little more flexible and support democracy fighters even in countries that may not usually receive our bilateral support. Is this something that the Minister for Development might consider looking at? When you talk a lot about shrinking space when it comes to civil society, it is a terrible situation. However, I think that a little bit is forgotten about the politically active, those who have perhaps gone from being activists and members of various social organisations and who have taken the step of wanting to take responsibility in politics. We want many people to go that way – even if it is a difficult path – so that we get politicians who are in politics for the right reasons, who want to make society better rather than make it worse, as now seems to be the case in many countries. We have, among other things, the party-by-party organisations that work directly politicians-to-politicians. Can Isabella Lövin be a little more specific about what kind of support could support the politically active under these tough regimes?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-496	Madam President, I would like Sofia Damm addresses the need for more flexible support. I have noted that for a long time there has been a strong focus on anti-corruption work and on accounting and control of aid. Perhaps this has been a little at the expense of being able to provide these smaller, flexible assistance that is needed out in the embassies to support in the emergency cases, to perhaps call a meeting or to help when organisations need support for a shorter period of time. We have now asked Sida to come up with suggestions on how to work with this. Next year we intend to develop a new strategy for peace and state building, focusing on institution building. We have support for party organisations through the Swedish Parliament. We have support for parliamentarians. We also have support that is not politically coloured, which goes to individual politicians. I think it's important to stay there. We also have – which is important for well-functioning political systems, democracy and accountability – increased support and focus on institution building and the rule of law. If you have a working legal apparatus, you also have legal security in your freedom of expression, in your freedom of opinion and in your right to work politically. A prerequisite for politicians, human rights activists and other activists to be able to operate freely at all is that it is a legal society and that there are no arbitrary arrests or similar. We are putting increased focus on this.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-501	Madam President, I would like The other week Fidel Castro died. For us liberals, Fidel Castro will always be remembered as a communist dictator who oppressed the Cuban people for 49 years. Let us remember that Cuba is still a Communist one-party dictatorship without free media. This was the case under Fidel Castro, and this is the case under his brother Raúl Castro, who has now taken over the Communist dictatorship. On Monday, the EU will adopt an aid agreement with Cuba, at the Foreign Ministers' meeting. The Swedish Government has supported this agreement. The Liberals and Christian Democrats have reported a disagreement in the EU Council. In what way does the Minister for Development believe that the EU-Cuba Development Agreement will free the Cuban people and give them democracy?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-504	Madam President, I would like The agreement referred to by Birgitta Ohlsson is an agreement on cooperation and political dialogue between the EU and Cuba. It is a generally written agreement that opens up for dialogue and collaboration in several areas, including democracy and human rights. Sweden has actively promoted the inclusion of the dialogue on democracy and human rights in these negotiations. This agreement will replace a common position adopted in 1996, which has effectively played its part now that a number of Member States – including Spain – have bilateral agreements with Cuba. The United States has opened up a strengthened dialogue. Switzerland, Norway, Canada and a wide range of other countries are also engaged in aid activities in Cuba. In view of Fidel Castros's death, we believe that this is a new situation. His brother is indeed in power, and it is certainly not a democracy. But we must be able to support the democratic forces in the country and also support the move towards removing monopolies and supporting self-employment. There is also some opening when it comes to access to information. The opening of an online café by the Alliance Government is an example of support that has meant a great deal to Cuba's development.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-508	Madam President, I would like Nota bene: This is an agreement with the Cuban state. So it is an agreement with the Castro dictatorship, where there is no free media. I would like to remind you that from January to August 2016, there were approximately 8 000 arbitrary detentions of various democracy activists. Free churches that have criticised the dictatorship have been shut down. We can see in many fields how political oppression hardens. The EU is usually quite exemplary in involving the opposition, civil society and other democratic forces in the drafting of agreements. But this time these groups have been completely excluded. That is why I and many others have been critical of this agreement for a long time. I would like to remind everyone to read the Civil Rights Defenders article today at the DN Debate, which highlights this process. I think it is shameful, to say the least, for the European Union simply to exclude the Cuban people from a very important agreement. We should also remember that there are EU countries that have major capital interests in Cuba. Above all, they think of mammons and put money first, and they have very little interest in supporting democracy ambitions in the country. These countries have been the driving force for this agreement to become a reality. I think that this agreement has been horribly distorted in a great many ways. We Liberals are not opposed to Sweden or the EU being in Cuba, but then we should be there to support those who are fighting for democracy, because there will never be democracy without democrats on the ground. This is an agreement directly with a Communist dictatorship that does not allow trade unions, which counteract workers' rights, which counteracts free media and – above all – has a monopoly on power. I find that extremely wrong.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-514	Madam President, I would like I share Birgitta Ohlsson's values when it comes to democracy and human rights. Then perhaps we do not have exactly the same view as regards the attitude to be taken towards countries with major human rights and democracy deficiencies and who are guilty of violations of their own people. There will be very few countries left on earth that Sweden could have a development cooperation with if the attitude towards such countries is that we should not have any forms of cooperation, political dialogue, memorandum of understanding or openings in terms of trade or aid. After all, this debate is now about Category 7 and the aid budget for next year. It is clear that we see that in the vast majority of countries, I would say almost everyone, with whom we have aid cooperation, there are shortcomings in democracy and human rights. There we work to support the population, just as Birgitta Ohlsson calls for. It is really only two countries that we are giving budget support to, Tanzania and Mo ç ambique. Otherwise, Swedish support goes to civil society organisations, through UN channels and other things, where there is a clear distance between us as donors and regimes that have shortcomings in democracy and human rights. But, of course, we must always stand up for these principles in our dealings with these governments, and I can certainly guarantee that we do. When I am travelling and meet other colleagues in governments, these are the issues that are being discussed all the time. It's a method that I think is better than isolation.
i-B2pqsj6Fz6QaDJtEos3S1x	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Development and Climate, for your participation here! I want to follow up on the issue of conflict resolution and climate as part of the solution and to prevent new conflicts. Parliaments have a clear role to play in such work. In many of the countries that do not have a functioning democracy or a democratic culture and there is no way of examining governments, which we see as important, and which have an increasingly authoritarian regime, it is extremely important that we support the parliaments and parliamentarians. We are talking about civil society that supports civil society. We are talking about political parties that support the development of political parties. But it is important that we also see the role of parliaments in supporting parliamentarians. Here, Sweden has often gone through the UNDP with the role of the UNDP there. I would like to hear whether the Minister sees opportunities to also seek other ways of supporting parliaments as a conflict solver, because they are really the basis. Parliamentarians and parliaments are conflictless in its best form, if you include the whole of society. It's one of the important functions. I would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to reconsider and not just go through the large multilateral structures.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-522	Madam President, I would like I know that Kerstin Lundgren personally has a commitment to the organisation Awepa, which just supports parliamentarians, and Sweden has supported them through this channel. The role of parliamentarians is extremely important. Supporting democratic development can be done in different ways. I believe that a very important way, as Sweden does, is to ensure that the elections are conducted properly as election observers. There is corruption in too many of our partner countries and aid countries, and the electoral process itself is not being conducted satisfactorily. The basis is that those elected who really represent have ended up there by a will of the people and not for other reasons. So there are many ways to support. One way I mentioned earlier is to support institutions, the principles of the rule of law and a legal system that supports people, so that those who do not have exactly the same views as the existing power are not threatened by the existing power. It is extremely fundamental to a democracy. Our support must be distributed in many different ways. And I think that Kerstin Lundgren can also see that it is sensitive to support specific candidates or political parties in other countries. It is perhaps perceived as interfering in internal affairs in a very direct way, and I think we need to be careful about that.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-526	Madam President, I would like The latter is something that is managed through the party-based organisations, to develop opportunities and structures to choose parliamentarians for themselves. It's not us but others who should choose them, but we support them. When it comes to developing a political culture that allows democracy to grow, it is of course important that parliaments function as parliaments, that this is where you meet and where conflicts are dealt with and resolved. Otherwise, you have to resolve conflicts in other arenas. That is why, of course, the parliaments and the role of parliamentarians are extremely important in developing a model for conflict resolution. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention climate aid. First of all, I would like to hear whether the Minister believes that it is now okay to support the Green Fund with aid funds or whether those funds should be taken alongside aid. There has often been a discussion on this. We in the Center Party have said in the past that what is important is that we go in and support the development of the Green Fund, so I welcome whether the Green Party and the government now share that view. I would also like to hear whether it would not be good at this point to extend further support to the green fund. The Center Party has proposed such a clear initiative, which is not least important in a situation where one considers what will happen to a new American administration. I would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to take the path of increased support.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-530	Madam President, I would like I very much congratulate the Center Party on your budget motion, which adds SEK 500 million to the Green Climate Fund in addition to the aid budget. That was something that the Green Party had previously, when we were not in government, also had the ambition to be able to do. Then I can see that when you were in the Center Party in the alliance government, you could not obtain additional funds for climate money. What we are driving now is that the money that goes to the green climate fund should be outside the old calculation model for bni. We have already noted in this House that your fellow Member in the Moderates did not even intend to list the aid framework according to the new calculation model for BNI. If you couldn't do it before, I think you'd have a very hard time doing it if you were to end up in a government coalition with the Moderates after the next election. But we share this principle, so we would be happy to cooperate on this issue, because it is extremely important that we live up to the promise in Copenhagen. If there are countries like the United States that could possibly fail that promise, others must step in, because the poor countries must have this support to make it. They must be able to protect themselves against the hurricanes, sea level rises, droughts and the problems that become with increased temperature but also be able to switch to renewable energy. There is a great opportunity here for poor people to have access to renewable energy, and the Green Climate Fund is a key to funding for the poorest. Here we can probably work together in the future, Kerstin Lundgren.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-533	Madam President, I would like I was pleasantly surprised that the Minister for Development highlighted Somalia in his speech. It is, of course, gratifying for everyone that developments there are progressing and that they will soon have elections there. There is a part of Somalia, Somaliland, which actually works and has been democratic for quite a few years now. They have their own government, their own political parties that respect democratic elections, their own police force and their own military, their own authorities and institutions, and that is relatively peaceful. My question to the Minister for Development is: Why does the Swedish Government not work more with Somaliland? One could recognise Somaliland as an independent state, set up commercial offices there, which do not exist today, or, for that matter, work with what already exists.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-536	Madam President, I would like Sweden is very committed to Somalia's state-building. It is a country that has been completely destroyed by civil war and by the ravages of Al-Shabab. Al-Shabab still has control over large parts of the territory. Of course, we also have contacts with Somaliland, and Somaliland is fully involved in the state building process. It's a fragile development. A number of members shall be elected from Somaliland and shall sit in the Federal Parliament. At the same time, Somaliland does not want to be part of the new federal Somalia. Dialogue is the only tool for lasting peace in Somalia. There is a great positive opportunity through the Swedish and international Somali diaspora that is now returning to Somalia to rebuild the country. Sweden has just initiated an investment fund to which Swedish Somalis and others can give money to start micro-enterprises in Somalia. There is much to do here. But, Markus Wiechel, you're taking 10 billion from the aid. It is not the settlements that you take, but you have 10 billion less than we have without the settlements. Then you will not be able to contribute to either peace or humanitarian aid to the same extent as the government or any of the other parties do.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-541	Madam President, I would like Next year, we spend more than the government on aid, if we ignore the settlements. As I was in the past, there are already functioning institutions in Somaliland. This area has a completely different history from the rest of Somalia. Somalia is simply an artificial state with Somaliland on the one hand and other areas on the other. One has been a British protectorate and the other an Italian. Why should it be so difficult for the government to target Somaliland more and not just the contacts they have in Mogadishu? There is no trade office in Somaliland, and we have no formal diplomatic relations with Somaliland despite the existence of both democracy and functioning institutions. Somalia is also important for neighbouring countries. People are fleeing there from the conflict in Yemen. If we are to enable this region to become more stable, perhaps we should invest where stability already exists.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-546	Madam President, I would like Let me emphasise that we have contacts in Somaliland. It is not in any way away from Swedish development cooperation or from our map. But, of course, we must invest in supporting where we see progress towards stability and peace. It can hardly be Markus Wiechels's view that we should leave the development in Mogadishu to focus only on a small island of better order. Yes, you have 1 billion more in aid next year. But you are taking away 10 billion in four years, and your constituents must be well informed about that. These 10 billion could go to state building in Somalia, to women and children, to water and to opportunities for Somalis to stay, to support themselves and to build a country that will be peaceful in the long term. That's the only responsibility you can do today. We cannot simply spend money on refugee camps in the Middle East so that refugees do not come to Europe. We are working seriously and long-term to build a peaceful state in both Somalia and South Sudan, which is in a very difficult situation. We cannot drop the focus on South Sudan just because it is not in the headlines of the newspapers or because refugees are not coming from there right now. We have to work in the countries where we have aid. You will have a big problem with that if you remove 10 billion from aid.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-551	Madam President, I would like Hunger, ill health, lack of education, lack of water and sanitation, and discrimination and violence against women – many of the abuses that the global Agenda 2030 targets aim to overcome – can be alleviated if people get money in hand or in their bank account. The Peace Prize winner and the US civil rights movement portal figure Martin Luther King Jr.'s analysis of what is needed to eradicate poverty once and for all is as topical today as when he wrote it and very relevant in today's debate on aid. In his last book Where do we go from here: c haos or community? from 1967, King notes that instead of trying to combat problems created by poverty, it is better to eliminate them. The easiest way is the most effective, says King: simply to make sure that people get money to move with by introducing a guaranteed income, a unconditional basic income that can be lived on. The basic income is more than a vision. Different variants have been tried temporarily or permanently in different parts of the world. Let me give a few examples of many. Since 2004, Brazil has had to introduce basic income. Over 60 million people are already receiving support for poor families with children who are subject to compulsory schooling. Our Swedish child allowance is given to everyone without conditions. In India, UN-funded trials in which poor villagers received a small amount of money every month without conditions or demands have produced outstanding results. Researchers have followed the villagers and compared to others who have not received money. Since the money was distributed directly to those for whom it was intended, it did not disappear in bureaucracy and corruption. The recipients invested responsibly in food, medicine and education. In addition, many were advised to invest in business, clean water and sanitation. In plain language, they joined forces to buy toilets, and to make a living in the long run they bought sewing machines and more. Women's freedom, security and dignity in particular increased markedly. In another attempt in a village in the severely HIV-affected Namibia, similar good results were quickly achieved. Especially worth mentioning are the impoverished women who could afford to say no to men's sex purchases. It was a lifesaving income. There is also a growing interest in the world, not least in low and middle income countries, in various types of cash support schemes, including pension systems. It can be aimed at poor groups, usually unconditionally but sometimes with conditions. Some 130 low- and middle-income countries have a system of this kind. The number of countries in sub-Saharan Africa is increasing rapidly. In 2015, 40 out of 48 countries had some form of cash support system. Madam President, I would like The UK think tank Overseas Development Institute has, on behalf of the UK Department responsible, gathered expertise from around the world to evaluate cash support in the event of humanitarian crises. The High Level Panel reviewed over 200 research studies and other sources and reports its work in a very encouraging and interesting report, Doing cash differently: how cash transfers can transform humanitarian aid, from 2015. The main message is clear: Give more unconditional cash support. It has turned out that the vast majority of those in need who are fleeing war, natural disasters or other misery and who receive cash support use the money sensibly and prefer to decide for themselves what they need. People's dignity is strengthened by trust. Local markets are favoured. Reducing the cost of transporting and storing goods also means that more aid actually goes to those in need. The report gives some examples where the difference has been significant. For example, it is said that two and a half times more of the aid budget in Somalia went directly to those in need when the aid was given in the form of cash instead of food. The report authors say that donors and relief organizations should always ask themselves the question: Why not cash? And if not now, when? Sweden is already contributing to cash support programmes as part of humanitarian aid to, for example, Palestinian families in Gaza and to people who have fled Syria. That's good, but can we do more? Together with Valter Mutt and Carl Schlyter, I have proposed an increased investment in unconditional cash support and basic income within Swedish humanitarian aid and development cooperation, i.e. to build systems for different types of cash support that suit the countries we work with. Maybe I'll break in an open door, and if I do, I'll be happy. It would be interesting to hear how the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Ministry view this. The motion is rejected without justification, but someone might wish to comment on it in this House. All people have the right to a dignified life without poverty, and all people want to develop and are not just recipients or unwilled victims. These are two important basic principles for Swedish policy for global development. Perhaps you can sum it up like this: Trusting people and not making things difficult unnecessarily brings great benefits, both human and economic, in this context as well as others. That is why I would like to highlight what the British Ministry has learned and the experience of what it looks like around the world. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention briefly another motion by Mr Amin, Valter Mutt, Carl Schlyter and myself to abolish the deductions from aid now going to the domestic reception of refugees. Sweden must of course be able to afford to invest in both. We therefore propose in the motion that the calculations be phased out gradually so that they disappear completely within a ten-year period. If it should be faster, it is of course warmly welcome.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-566	Madam President, I would like It is well even ten days since Jens Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary General, in The Observer wrote that we are perhaps currently experiencing our generation's most dangerous time. The development of events is dramatic. A few weeks ago, Norway decided to abandon its so-called NATO reservation, and for the first time ever, some of the permanent's foreign military troops are now stationed on Norwegian territory. A few weeks ago, corvettes with the possibility of nuclear division and an extremely long range entered the Baltic Sea. At the same time, news came of the Iskander robot system being deployed in Kaliningrad with an obvious purpose, Madam President, to try to put a lock on the entrance to the Baltic Sea. It has been a year and a half since the last orientation decision was taken, but it is quite clear that this decision is now out of line with the reality of security policy. While this fact is becoming increasingly apparent, I can see that the government is now mainly engaged in two activities. The first is to try to distract the ongoing defence debate and the ever stronger defence opinion by now denouncing a defence preparation. The second is to try to sell out parts of our material heritage at all costs. In the past, the Swedish Parliament has given the government authorisation to sell equipment for which the Swedish Armed Forces have no operational need. The Swedish parliament is now seeking authorisation to sell what the Swedish Armed Forces need. Last week, when we adjusted this budget report, the Swedish Democrats supported the Alliance in rejecting this request for authorisation. But judge, Madam President, on my surprise and everyone's surprise when the same party announced today in the morning that it has made a turn of 180 degrees on this issue, and so it is reasonable and possible that no one will be given a mandate to sell the material that the Swedish defence needs. It is obvious, Madam President, that on other points too, the Swedish democratic defence and security policy is now moving into a new direction. After the focus decision in 2015, a defence group was created to care for the decision over the next five years. After today's news, I can see that this defence group now also seems to have received a sub-committee including the Swedish Democratic Party. Political denial is something that is important the higher you come up in the political hierarchy. However, since the Minister for Defence is in this Chamber, I would like to ask him whether he knows whether any of his colleagues or anyone else has made contact with the Swedish Democrats to inform and discuss this issue. While the Secretary of Defense in the service of export is visiting increasingly exotic places on our planet, there is concern at home. The decision to focus is not only obsolescence from a security policy point of view, but it is also subject to an economic breakdown. In the 2017 budget base, the Swedish Armed Forces writes that there is a risk of cost increases on the material side. This is a total of EUR 9 billion. Of these, the Swedish Armed Forces estimates that 5 billion will be able to fall out during the current defence decision-making period. According to the Swedish Defence Economists at FOI, what has been allocated in the specialization decision is not enough to finance the order made by the Swedish Armed Forces. A representative of FMV commented at a seminar a couple of weeks ago that his assessment was that an amount of EUR 8.4 billion was needed each year in addition to the current orientation decision in order for the order to be effective. In the latest issue of the Defence Forum, it was read that the war chiefs estimate that they entered this defense decision period with a deficit of about 20 billion. However, the government refuses to take this in, and it wants to bury the defence debate in a defence committee that is estimated to take about two years. Madam President, I would like I believe that we do not need an analysis of the security situation at the moment. As the English would put it: The writing is on the wall. We know that the global situation is deteriorating, and now it is a question of providing funds here and now. Sweden needs tokrusta, excuse the expression, the coming years. It's about uniforms, vehicles, ammo, robots, boots and so on. That is why, Madam President, the Liberals are today calling for defence expenditure to be at least 2% of GDP in the long term, and we hope to achieve this by 2026. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-580	Madam President, I would like Today it is a budget debate, and we are going to talk about defence and society's emergency preparedness. Work on this has taken a long time in committee. It has been difficult to penetrate certain parts, and we have requested more information. Today, however, we are going to take a decision of more than SEK 50 billion for the defence. The aim is to increase operational capability. I would like to dwell on the reservation of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party 5. I want to start by telling Allan Widman that no one has made contact with SD. I think they've come to their own senses. I was informed in writing, by e-mail, just before the committee meeting that they had changed their mind, as I said to the chairman. According to the reservation, an authorisation is given to the government. This is important for Sweden, but it is also important for the Swedish Armed Forces and for the defence industry. It means security to have long-term and clear decisions. We're not the valet of different whims. The authorisation concerns the export of JAS 39 C/ D. We want to increase operational availability. That's what it's all about. We want more flight time withdrawals. Oreda only creates trouble and space for others to act. This re-armament phase has been worrying us for some time. We have seen that the flight capability has been reduced. We want to increase it. Then trust in the government is important. What is happening now is best for Sweden. Parliament should not be at a level of detail where we discuss nuts and screws. We're supposed to have security and not a sharp throw. We shall keep the same line straight through from committee to chamber. The defence group consists of five parties and more than 70% of this House. It gives stability. We're acting in accordance with the defense decision. It is very easy to stand outside and difficult to show that you can take responsibility. We need to increase the operational capability of the military units. We have more exercises today than we have in a very long time, and we have greater complexity. We've worked with brigade management and emergency training. And we now also have the opportunity to reject violations and discover them. I leave it to the Minister for Defence to deal with a great deal of this, because I would like to be able to talk a little bit about emergency preparedness. The principle of responsibility applies here, as you all know. Then it is about collaboration, but also about action. MSB is working hard on these issues. Protection against accidents, emergency preparedness and civil defence is high on their agenda. They will deliver this. They also have other tasks such as conducting international rescue and disaster response operations, supporting foreign authorities and, of course, supporting needy Swedes abroad. They shall also carry out the dissemination of knowledge. Our NGOs are doing a great deal of good here. It can be anything from mowing grass to taking samples of the grass where Chernobyl is still ghosting to setting up liaison centers. Coast Guards will also have changed tasks. We need to use our resources more efficiently, and more crimes will be prosecuted. That is why we also give them greater autonomy and the right to intervene in the environment in which they operate, in other words at sea and at sea. In a new law it is about law enforcement, keeping order and having control and supervision. When it comes to the Armed Forces, it is therefore a question of increasing the operational capability of the armed forces. But not everything is solved by this defense decision. We know that there is a strained situation for the staff in certain units. There is, however, an investigation under way which is now being referred. I hope it will give us the solution. But our staff must be trained as well and have access to the materials it needs. It is now about to be delivered. As far as equipment is concerned and for the future, we are also waiting for the next investigation to come in a few days' time. It also feels important. How are we going to design the defense for the future threat picture that exists? We have a lot of collaborations with other countries, where Finland is our main partner. But of course we also cooperate with the rest of the Nordic countries, the Baltic countries, Poland, the USA, the UN, the EU and NATO. In addition, we have cooperation with the police, so that the police can use the defense helicopters. Then, of course, we have the total defense, this great colossus that is going back on its feet with the civil defence. The focus, as I said, is to increase operational capability. It's extremely important. Now we are five parties behind this. For the next defence preparation, I hope that more parties will be behind it. The defence of Sweden is much more important than the positions of the political parties, because we must stand together.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-597	Mr President, I would like to One of the things that the specialization decision is about and that is being implemented is the stationing of permanent personnel, a combat group, on Gotland. In addition, the Commander-in-Chief has announced that the permanent base on Gotland will be brought forward. That's good. If one hand gives a stronger defence capability on Gotland, it is important that you do not take the other hand with you. It is about Nord Stream 2 and what is now under discussion, namely whether Slite port should be leased to Russian interests. Mr President, I would like to During Question Time earlier, I had the opportunity to ask the Minister for Defence about this. However, he declined to respond in a friendly but firm way, by referring to him as a minister and worrying about a KU notification. Åsa Lindestam is not a mini-ster and does not risk any KU ‐ notification and can then represent the Social Democratic Party. That is why I would like to ask her the question. On 13 December there will be talks between social democratic local and regional politicians from Gotland and Blekinge and government representatives. What does Åsa Lindestam want out of those conversations? Once again, we give with one hand as we strengthen our defence capabilities on Gotland. There is now a risk that we will take the other with us by eroding it, for example by renting Slite port to Russian pipes, Russian interests. We Moderates feel very calm and satisfied that our opposition council in Karlshamn, Magnus Gärdebring, says no to Russian pipes in Karlshamn. Our group leader in the Gotland Regional Council, Simon Härenstam, says no to Russian pipes and interests in Slite harbour. What does Åsa Lindestam think that the ocial democrats on Gotland and in Karlshamn should say when it comes to Russian pipes and Russian interests?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-603	Mr President, I would like to I sat in this Chamber when we discussed the first, the first Nord Stream. As I recall from that debate and from what the Moderates said, they thought it was a good idea. I also think they said that Nord Stream 1 was a peacemaker. Now we are faced with the next decision. I understand that there will be negotiations this week. I also sat in this House throughout Question Time and heard that the Minister for Defence received a number of questions, not only from the Moderates but also from several other parties. He replied that he was waiting to hear the weekly conversations. I choose to do the same. I'll wait and see what happens this week. I hope that we will then be given a presentation on what has emerged from the discussions. I also hope you listen to each other. That's what democracy is to me, that you can sit around the same table and discuss pros and cons and think about what you get out of different things. I hope that we can have the same tone and that in the small defence group, which now actually consists of 70% of this House, we can have that information. Then we will also know what the discussions lead to. The question lies so far with the government.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-607	Mr President, I would like to A famous battle cry is: What does the Social Democracy want? I would therefore like to repeat that: what does the Social Democracy want? I can understand – and I can in any case do nothing about it – that during Question Time the Minister of Defence did not want to describe what expectations he has at the meeting on 13 December between the government and local Social Democratic representatives from Gotland and Blekinge. But Åsa Lindestam is in the Riksdag. It would therefore be interesting to know what you want. Once again, with one hand we are now trying to strengthen defence capabilities on Gotland when we set up combat groups – you can have views on whether it is enough and whether it should be more, but we are at least beginning to take steps in the right direction towards strengthening on Gotland. Do you want to risk destroying it with the other hand when it comes to allowing Russian pipes and interests in Slite port and also in Karlshamn? Mr President, I would like to All I want is to know what the Social Democrats really want on this issue. Maybe it's not that hard. The local företrärna, for example the iberals on Gotland, are very clear. The Center has now declared, through its party leader, that they, at least at central level, are opposed to Nord Stream 2 and think it is a bad idea. More and more people are gathering behind the wise position that Nord Stream 2 is not in the interests of Europe and Sweden. I therefore believe that the EU Energy Union, the EU institutions and the Commission should be used to try to prevent Nord Stream 2. But we also have a local responsibility. And it is allowed to assume a local responsibility for the nation, especially if it is about two as defence-friendly counties as Gotland and Blekinge. They are aware of the need for a strengthened Swedish defence capability. Mr President, I would like to What does the Social Democracy want?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-613	Mr President, I would like to Again, democracy is important to me. For a social democrat, democracy means that you have many and long talks before you put your foot down. You also listen to other people's opinions before you eventually gather, analyze and decide. I hope the Moderates will, too, if they have that opportunity. This is how we have to work in this position, in the Swedish Parliament. It would not be good for Sweden if we ourselves, each one, were to go out with our opinions. I think we need to get together and listen. After that, we will give a clear answer on this issue. We are also following the laws and regulations that are at issue. Then one level can't just decide over another. We have humility before each other. We must have all the information on the table, before we can say: This is what we are going to do, and this is how we are going to resolve this particular issue, or other issues. The Social Democrats have always worked that way. And we will continue to do so. It makes the Social Democrats strong.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-617	Mr President, I would like to I could not help but note that Åsa Lindestam returned several times in her speech to the fact that defence and security policy must be stable and long-term. I would like to remind you that it is now quite a long time since our security policy environment showed signs of long-term sustainability and stability. I think it is necessary to adapt to this situation, even if it is done in the short term and with a sharp throw. Åsa Lindestam says that we will sell Swedish fighter aircraft to make the fighter flight more accessible. It is hard to understand that this could be the result of a sale. However, the government claims that sales should enable funds to be returned to the Armed Forces to benefit the armed forces. That is why the Alliance has shown a positive attitude toward this. But, Mr President, when the government does not tell us how many fighter planes to sell, it cannot tell us how much money will be returned to the national defence, nor when that can happen will the committee be concerned. That is why we have wanted the government to return to each individual affair and to report the consequences for national defence.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-620	Mr President, I would like to I would like to support Amendment No 5 and I would also like to support the committee's proposal in the report. I forgot it earlier, and I'm sorry about that. Allan Widman! S domesticated and long-term security policy is important for Sweden. That's exactly what we're doing. We are not changing in the short term and throwing ourselves back and forth, but I want our security policy to be widely known and stable. Everyone should know what Sweden thinks. That's what we're doing right now. As far as aircraft are concerned, if the Armed Forces propose this solution to increase operational flight capability, Allan Widman can say: No, it is not. It will lead to a deterioration. That is what this decision contains. If we want to do business within the framework that we have said and within the defence decision that we are now a few – 70% – in this House that is behind it, then I actually think we can allow ourselves to trust the government. This is a serious situation, I think. As Allan Widman pointed out, the international situation that we see is absolutely not calm and stable. When we can't trust those who are close to us and we want to over-examine their decision because there's something that can go wrong in that, I think it's going to go away. If we can now sell C/ D and use the money in a good way so that the operational flight capacity increases, I think that is a good decision. I trust the government. I think you make the right decision. I also trust the Armed Forces. I know the Armed Forces are good at what they do.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-626	Mr President, I would like to I am not aware that the Swedish Armed Forces are proposing to the Swedish parliament to authorise the government to sell fighter aircraft JAS 39 Gripen C/ D. It is the government that proposes this. Mr President, I would like to Like all other members of the Committee on Defence, I have frequent contacts with representatives of the Swedish Armed Forces. As I understand it, their response is conditional on being told how many aircraft there are that our defence should abstain. How much money will come back to the Swedish Armed Forces and benefit the Swedish Armed Forces? Above all, if so, is the money coming back? We are now living in an environment that at least makes me worry much more about the days before 2022 than about the times that follow. I believe that, if you are a responsible defence policy, you must be able to answer these questions before printing a blanco check to the government to sell defence equipment that our defence force says you need. If you didn't have a need, it would of course have been completely okay. But they say you need the equipment. Nevertheless, you will give this authorisation more or less unconditionally. Mr President, I would like to I have been on the Committee on Defence for almost 15 years, and I have not seen any similar authorisation. If it had come 15 years ago with the world situation then prevailing, yes, then I could possibly be more forgiving, but not as it looks today.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-631	Mr President, I would like to I've been on the defense committee for as long as Allan Widman has. I have been present and followed matters closely. I also have a lot of contacts both inside and outside the authorities. I feel that I have got a lot on my feet to be able to stand behind this decision. As I said from the speaker's seat, we have had many preparations. We have invited everyone we have wanted to invite, and I have never opposed a single proposal from Allan Widman when he has said that we must also listen to them. Everyone who has had the opportunity has had to come and inform us. I do not understand what could get worse with us making this decision now, or what would be better if we were to let the committee decide what it should be like. I don't understand that difference. I trust the Armed Forces, I trust FMV and I trust the government. This is gonna be fine. I don't feel like we're making an in-Blanco decision. We've been getting so much information about how this is going to be, so for me it's done already.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-635	Mr President, I would like to We are currently seeing that the countries around the Baltic Sea are upgrading. The reason is that the security situation has deteriorated. The new President of the United States, Trump, is also influencing this when he calls for NATO countries to comply with their NATO agreements. Country after country declares that the defence grants will be increased to 2 per cent of the bnp, but neither does the Swedish government nor the defence group. Here it is said that the defence budget will increase by 1 billion per year in fixed money. This means that Sweden will invest 2% of GDP in the defence in 2066. In my opinion, that is not enough. At this rate, we will not be able to fill the holes that are in the defence, nor will we be able to renovate so that we have an invasion defence. My question to Åsa is: Will the government soon increase the rate with which the defence grant increases?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-638	Mr President, I would like to There is a renovation going on around the Baltic Sea, as we both see. We also see that NATO is demanding 2% of GDP. I have just returned from Washington – I am still a little jet-lagged – and it was very clear there that Member States are being asked to reach 2% as soon as possible. I think that is a good thing, but we must also see what this 2% contains, and that must be efficiency. If most of this 2% in other countries goes to staff, it may not be the salaries and pensions of the staff that give an effective defence force. We have to look at it too. Of these 2%, NATO is demanding 20% for research and equipment. There we are at the forefront of Sweden. Yesterday we were at the Armed Forces headquarters and received information. My question was answered that the main request was for staff to be present. As I also said from the speaker's chair, it is a concern how we can get personnel for all services within the Swedish Armed Forces. I hope that the investigation that next month will land on the government table will be carried out quickly and that it will mean that there will be staff in place. After all, it is very much what it is about, that there is a human hand behind what is being done. Here we have a great challenge. Although I realize that there are many other things that are of great importance and are to be decided on later on, it is actually the staff that I think about most.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-644	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Armed Forces conducted a war game a few years ago in order to calculate how many Gripen Erik would need to be purchased. It was then concluded that 60 - 80 planes were the lowest. If we are to have 60 planes, it requires quite a lot of new air protection of medium or long range. The Swedish Armed Forces have been clear about the type of anti-aircraft they want, and it is the French-Italian Aster 30 system. If we buy that system, there is a great chance that the Swedish defence industry can become a partner and push for that system to be even better. This is a bit of a watershed, I think. Will we buy a new, efficient and modern anti-aircraft that can be developed in the future or will we buy a used system that is cheap – for example old Patriot systems – for a smaller money? This is where you show if you really think the defense is important. In that case, choose the Aster 30 route.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-648	Mr President, I would like to It's precisely in this jam jar that we shouldn't have our fingers. Before we get into any decision on the material and the future, we have to have all the cards on the table. This is something I leave to the future defence preparation to look at. This is one of the issues that I am sure will be discussed a great deal. I think we're all convinced that we need a long-range anti-aircraft. I think it's at the top of the list that the new defense committee will be working on, so I'm sure this will work out in the best way possible. But we must first know how the equipment we invest in will be managed in the future. I can agree that we should not have things that are old and not useful. This applies in all respects and in all policy areas. We must have good things that work for the future. However, it is not always easy to do the right thing. Therefore, as politicians in the Defence Committee, we should not do these things, but trust those people who work with such equipment systems daily and in a large number of cases. At least I'm gonna do that.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-652	Mr President, I would like to On the same day that FOI presents its latest research report on Russian defence capabilities, we have a budget debate on defence here in the Swedish Parliament. That is good, because it is in the light of reality and its conditions that we must make decisions now and for the future. FOI notes continued efforts in Russia. It's about capacity building. I would like to quote FOI:'At the same time, the implementation of the state armament programme has improved the Russian defence industry's prospects of playing an important role in Russian military capabilities over the next ten years. ..................................................... In light of this, we must do everything we can to increase our operational capacity here and now, but also prepare to face what may be in the air, on the water, under water and on the ground beyond 2020. In addition, Russian capabilities in cyber, propaganda, disinformation, influence operations and sabotage are added. Sweden faces major challenges in terms of defence and security policy. The Swedish Armed Forces' own perspective study presented last week points to four key factors that affect Sweden's security in the coming years. Overall, this is a very unpleasant picture of what we have to expect in the coming years, and it is a scenario that places great demands on Swedish defence capabilities. We must therefore continue to strengthen our own defence capabilities in order to maintain a good threshold effect. At the same time, we must develop our total defence in order to withstand the threat of hybrid warfare. We need a Sweden that is not only able to act in times of peace and war – each at its utmost point on the scale – but also able to cope with the large and broad in between, the twilight situation, i.e. different times with different forms of stress. Mr President, I would like to The outside world can be described as increasingly darker. Then it is nevertheless positive that we have begun to strengthen the Swedish defence capability. The defence decision of 2015 began to be implemented as of 1 January. The decision focuses on the national defence and to increase the operational capabilities of the armed forces. Thanks, among others, to the Moderates, the defense is added an extra 10.2 billion over the period instead of the 6.2 billion bid that the government made. This is money that, among other things, has made it possible for permanent operations to be found again on Gotland after the Social Democratic Government Göran Persson, through the defence decision in 2004, decommissioned Gotland's regiment. For my part, I see it as the first step on a stairway that inevitably has to lead up. Several good concrete measures are being taken as a result of the defence decision. It is about bets on the base plate that includes, among other things, more practice, new ammo and standard vehicles. The defense's ability to hunt submarines is also strengthened. Mr President, I would like to A defence preparation itself does not solve any problems. It's not important in itself. However, for a year now, we on the moderate side have demanded that it be called up in order for us to have a body in which the parties can negotiate how we can strengthen Swedish defence capabilities, partly because we could long before follow up on all the threats of the new era that we face. It is undeniably about purely military capabilities, but also about what we have said from moderate quarters about a stronger focus on psychological defence, the Total Defence Research Institute and civil defence. We recommended in our draft budget that these areas be strengthened. We can daily see how disinformation and impact campaigns are directed against Sweden and risk undermining trust in society's institutions. These threats must be identified and met. Civil defence is an important component of total defence, and the construction of civil defence has now also begun. The purpose of the civil defence is to protect the civilian population, to ensure the most important functions of society and to contribute to the Swedish Armed Forces' ability in the event of an armed attack or war in our surrounding world. The problem is that there are not enough resources allocated for the task. While implementing the 2015 defence decision, we must also look to the future. There is no contradiction between these two things. The Swedish Armed Forces' conclusion that our own military capability in the period after 2020 will decline in relation to the Russian one points to the need to start preparing and planning for a new defence decision right now. The change in trends we have seen in defence must continue. And we must have the courage and the ability to do what can happen in order to increase our ability here and now, while at the same time the important work of preparing a new decision should have started. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have been instrumental in increasing defence appropriations in relation to what the Social Democrats and the Green Party wanted. We Moderates have also contributed to a defence decision that is described by the Swedish Armed Forces as a trend crime. We Moderates are therefore still prepared to protect a strengthened Swedish defence capability in all areas. Now's not the time to be late. Nor can we afford to lock ourselves in to yesterday's solutions. Sweden's defence will continue to be strengthened, and what has been decided will also be delivered. I support the Alliance's reservation No 8.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-667	Mr President, I would like to Finnish TV recently conducted a survey of which parties in Finland and Sweden wanted a defence alliance between the two countries. In Sweden, the Swedish Democrats, Liberals and Christian Democrats looked positively at a defence alliance. One should know that a defence alliance between Sweden and Finland would greatly increase the threshold effect. It would be much tougher to go after the two armed forces together than one country at a time. In Finland, the Moderate Party was the equivalent of a Defence Alliance. Looking at the possibilities of building a strong defence, it is obvious that it will take time. The common GDP of Sweden and Finland is 54 per cent of the GDP of Russia. When someone says that we cannot build a strong defence or that we cannot build a threshold effect, that is not true. We could build a threshold effect that means that someone would probably not go after Sweden and Finland together because it would be too strong a power, and it would cost more than it tastes. Why do the Moderates oppose a Swedish-Finnish defence alliance so much?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-671	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Mikael Jansson from the Swedish Democrats pleads to form a defence alliance to get a larger economic body with larger common bnp and that one would have a threshold effect. Mikael Jansson and the Swedish Democrats must then explain the following: If one increases the threshold effect with one country, what would the threshold effect be if one cooperates with 28 other states? If the concentration is on the threshold effect and you get increased bnp, Mikael Jansson and the Swedish Democrats owe the answer to why you want a defence alliance with a country and not with 28, which you get through NATO membership. Furthermore, with NATO membership, we would have the binding Article 5, which means that we know that other countries are coming to our aid and to our aid. We do not need to believe, hope, pray or wish, but we know that they will come to our rescue. I also believe that there may well be an in-depth discussion on this. I am among those who are in favour of a Swedish-Finnish defence alliance, but within the framework of a common NATO membership. I think there is great wisdom in us assisting each other's countries. But I do not want to rule out the fact that we are also cooperating with other countries in our neighbourhood, such as Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom and Poland. There's Mikael Jansson's answer. We should be aware that we have a unilateral declaration of solidarity, which Finland does not have. If we are included in this type of defence association, this means that you also get a completely different responsibility from the Finnish side for the lake plot that Sweden is responsible for. I think it deserves to be pointed out in the Finnish debate as well. As we all say, we know that a conflict directed against Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania will also include, not least, Sweden. This would draw you into it. The Swedish Democrats are guilty of the answer.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-677	Mr President, I would like to The difference between a declaration of solidarity and a defence alliance is very clear. A declaration of solidarity does not mean that we will certainly do anything. If another country goes to war, it is a very difficult decision for a country to stand together and intervene militarily. It's a tough decision, and it'll only happen if you have a defense alliance before. Loyalty goes without saying. Should Finland be attacked, it is clear that Sweden will be there if we have signed it and vice versa. I think that history shows that very clearly. The fact that it is better to have a small alliance than to be in NATO is due to the fact that NATO is, at this point, the opposite of Russia. Moving NATO's borders closer to Russia increases the tension in the Baltic Sea very much. It is in itself a great danger. It may increase the risk of misunderstandings and escalations. If there are conflicts, it may be in our own area. This is clearly a much worse option than the alternative with Sweden and Finland in alliance. My next question concerns the defence budget. The Alliance's defence appropriations went over eight years from 1.3 per cent of GDP to 1.1 per cent of GDP. You sucked out the defense. Although the defense was already on your knees when you took power, you kept sucking it out. In 2007, you added an extra savings bet that allowed your own Secretary of Defense Odenberg to drop out in protest. Today we have a material hole – we lack material for tens of billions of dollars in our small defence. My question is, if the Alliance Government is given another chance, how do we know that you are not continuing to dismantle the defense?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-680	Mr President, I would like to I am among those who believe that the Moderates deserve to be self-critical of what we did and in some cases did not do during the alliance years. But this has also led us to new conclusions and to our doing things now. We have contributed to a defence decision in which we were involved and made sure to increase the appropriations initially proposed by the Social Democrats. We almost doubled them, which has made possible, among other things, the investment that is now taking place on Gotland, the improved submarine hunt and some other things. I think there is every reason for the Moderates to continue to contribute to defence decisions that mean that we strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. But now we're where we are. It is interesting to listen to Mikael Jansson's and the Swedish Democrats' somewhat tangled view of this with defence alliances. In fact, it is very difficult to agree that an alliance with a country would provide greater security and security, but that this would be denied to us if we interacted with 28 countries, with a much larger economic body and a much greater threshold capacity. Furthermore, Mr President, I must turn to the way the Swedish democrats view the world. NATO is seen as a counterpart to Russia. This also describes Sweden and in some sense Finland as some kind of buffer states, as a buffer zone between two rival powers. Mr President, I would like to I'm a part of the West. I am quite convinced that when strategists and soldiers in the Kremlin in Moscow look west over the Baltic Sea, they see that a country like Sweden would not stand silent alongside if a military rape of Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania were to take place. This is how it has been described in Bringéus's report and elsewhere: If there is a conflict in the Baltic Sea region, Sweden will inevitably be involved. Then I think it's good to have many friends and not just one.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-684	Mr President, I would like to I am not the one who usually goes up and defend Göran Persson, but I just have to take the opportunity. Like Mikael Jansson, I remember how Borg stood in Almedalen in 2007 cutting down the defence budget so mildly that Minister Odenberg resigned. I also remember what was said about the defence as a special interest. This led to the creation of a group of politicians in which the bourgeois were involved, the Implementation Group. In order to get into the budget, a large amount of equipment was removed from the orders made. All this was supposed to be done in six months. It was a huge saving. I think it was Minister Tolgfors who set up that group. In all this, I don't think you really wanted to hurt. But when you are faced with decisions that you are forced to make from an economic point of view, it is sometimes wrong, whether you are Göran Persson or Borg. Maybe you don't realize how hard it can be. In view of this, I would like to ask a question. Could it ever again be that one receives a proposal from one's bourgeois comrades that makes it necessary to cut the budget?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-688	Mr President, I would like to If we are now going to have historic budget debates, there is every reason to go deeper into them. Firstly, as I said, I think that there is reason to be self-critical in one part that was done and one that was not done in the years 2006 to 2014. My question is: Is Åsa Lindestam self-critical of what the Social Democrats did the years before? I'm from Ängelholm. It is one of the places affected by the unit death that flew through Sweden during the 1990s and early 2000s, when Swedish defence policy was equal to unit closures. Is there any form of self-criticism even among the Social Democrats? Secondly, can Åsa Lindestam point out which of the draft budgets the Social Democrats presented during the alliance years 2006–2014 meant that they wanted more money for the defence? The truth is – I remember very well – that in the 2010 election campaign, for example, you had a red-green election manifesto where you together demanded reductions of 2 billion. Had this become government policy, we would have stood in an even deeper hole that we would have to dig out of. I think, Mr President, that there is every reason for the Social Democrats to speak with a little less words and, above all, perhaps with a little more humility and self-criticism. In addition, I would like to remind you that we have a defense arrangement of which the Moderates are a part. The basic bid that Peter Hultqvist and Magdalena Andersson gave us in the Alliance was 6.2 billion. It ended at 10.2 billion. I think that this is an essential improvement, which we stood for during these negotiations. A little self-criticism and a little humility are my simple gift to the Social Democrats.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-694	Mr President, I would like to I think it's the world coverage that you have at the moment that makes things happen to the defense economy. Four years before the closure in Ängelholm, it was decided to close F 15 in Söderhamn. Then it stood between Ängelholm and Söderhamn, and Söderhamn lost. I am very aware of what happened. I know what I was saying when the F-15 went missing. And I still find it sad. The village has been marked by this for a very long time. The real reason why I asked for a reply is that I feel in this House that the representatives of the bourgeois parties Allan Widman and Hans Wallmark do not agree on the defence committee, not even on the forms of defence preparation. Is it the case that we will form a defence preparation without certain parties in the bourgeois alliance? Then can you continue to call yourself an alliance? I feel that you differ in what you have said today. If so, will the budgets of your respective parties look the same, or will they differ there too? More such questions will arise for a defence preparation.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-696	Mr President, I would like to I'm pretty sure the Alliance wants to go the same way. We're changing. This shows not least today's mark from the Center Party. We want to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. We put it in a slightly different way, and we have also come to a slightly different conclusion in the negotiations that preceded this defence decision. But there is no doubt about the direction. We all four parties want to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. We all four parties see the value of cooperation in the form of NATO. All of us four parties are deeply concerned about Russian development. It is clear that this unites us and will also provide a sound and stable basis for government in this area. The second question raised by Åsa Lindestam was about the pain she expressed for the closure of the aircraft flotilla in her municipality of residence Söderhamn. That is the problem. We have a location by location in Sweden that can tell us about the same pain experiences when an airplane flotilla, a unit or some other operation was dismantled and closed down. It was Swedish defence policy during the Social Democratic years of the 1990s and the beginning of the 2000s. Unit after unit, operations after operation, was closed and discontinued. When you point a critical finger at the Alliance, you should turn it in 180 degrees, point to yourself and ask: What responsibility do we have for the defence disarmament that has taken place in Sweden? What responsibility do we have that, together with the Green Party and the Left Party as late as 2010, thought we should cut back on defence spending? The self-critical finger I think would do the Social Democrats good. We are also self-critical.
i-2vkQu6aMEKsfUPTN87Y77W	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservations 5, 6 and 11. Total defence and emergency preparedness are important for our security. When we were new to Parliament in 2010, we were the only ones who wanted to introduce training for conscripts. We were the only ones who wanted to return to invasion defense. We were the only ones who wanted to increase the defence budget significantly. Today we are no longer alone. In two of the questions, all the other parties have changed their minds. Everyone now wants training of conscripts back. Everyone now wants the invasion defense back. On these two issues of defence, which are absolutely central, where we have gone ahead, there is now agreement. That's good! The problem is that there is no majority in favour of a change in the third question, to substantially increase defence appropriations. We were alone there in 2010. Now we're not all alone anymore. Today, there are two parties that want to raise the defence funds significantly, the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals. The question is: Where are the Moderates and the Social Democrats? At the rate you want to raise – SEK 1 billion per year in fixed prices – it will take up to 2066 before we invest 2 per cent of GDP in Sweden in defence. That rate is not relevant. It is far too low compared to how uncertainty has increased in our neighbourhood. Come on, if the Swedish Democrats and Liberals can give proper priority to defence issues, more parties will be able to do so. Feel free to polish the rhetoric and try to score different points in the debate! It belongs to the defence policy, too. But above all, do not forget to budget far more resources for defence. Before the rearmament takes effect, a lot of black holes in the defense must be bought out. Buying out must also be the case for all defence peace adjustments that are not relevant to an invasion defence. The other countries of the Baltic Sea region are now moving rapidly towards defence efforts of 2% of GDP. It will be a reality within five years. Why is the Swedish government investing in achieving this important goal only in 50 years' time? That strategy is irresponsibly irresponsible. When we come to reclaim the invasion defense, the entire system must function as a well-oiled system of systems. We agree on this between the parties. We also agree that all defences are important. We need functioning air defence, maritime defence and ground defence. We also need Home Guards, a civil defence, and households should have their own emergency preparedness. We believe that there is also a need for an operational defence. As far as operational defence is concerned, the other parties have not yet taken any positions. The total defense as a whole should be able to reject violations but also decide against intrusive combat forces. It is important to be able to stop multiple intrusions at the same time, but we should also be able to determine in at least one direction. We believe that the defence in order to achieve this objective must have a certain volume, and we believe that the defence must be a sensible starting point. We shall be able to pursue an offensive defence tactic but with the advantages of the defensive. We do not believe that one or two army brigades can solve these tasks for the whole of Sweden as the government believes. We need multiple units. The defense needs to be well-planned between the field army, the Home Guard and the local defense units. We believe that eight army brigades with 40 000 officers and soldiers supported by 38 000 officers and soldiers in different distribution units are a normal level for the Swedish army. We do not know where an enemy will possibly attack, but we must be able to defend the capital with Arlanda, the Kallax air base, Norrbotten's coastal country, Gotland, Småland and Blekinge's coastal country. We therefore also propose setting up three amphibious brigades with a total of 18 000 officers and soldiers. These brigades will have floating coastal missile companies. As far as the number of submarines is concerned, we must take into account the fact that at least one in three submarines will always be in orbit. We must also have submarines continuously grouped outside Stockholm and Gothenburg. For we do not have time to take submarines long distances if necessary in underwater position. This means that Sweden needs at least twelve submarines in a longer perspective, and in a medium-term perspective we can manage with eight. Ability for mine laying, mine clearance and submarine hunting is important. The number of surface flotillas should be increased to three with one on the west coast. The anti-aircraft should be given more space. The Brigade Air Guard should be extended to a full battalion per brigade, and the Air Force should have its own strategic air defence. If we keep all Gripen C/D in the air force and double the production rate at Gripen Erik, Sweden can have a total of 200 Gripen in 2026, i.e. ten divisions. If we buy more spare parts, open up the aviation workshop in Ronneby again and hire more service technicians, the fleet becomes more operational. Training of conscripts should be used to increase the number of units. We fully support the idea of a defence alliance with Finland. It can be concluded within two years and optimised gradually.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-713	Mr President, I would like to Now I almost thought I didn't really understand. Mikael Jansson says in his speech that we will keep all the Gripen C/D that the Swedish Air Force has today. The special opinion given by the Swedish Democrats in the report repeats the same thing: and with regard to the re-armament phase from JAS 39 C/ D to JAS 39 E, we believe that the Armed Forces should be allowed to retain all Gripen C/D operations within the air force. We believe that it would be more reasonable for the Air Force to receive 100 - 200 fighter aircraft and that Gripen C / D can be operated until the end of the 2020s. ..................................................... Why, then, is this so extraordinary? Well, Mr President, it is extraordinary because, this morning, the Swedish Democrats announced to the other members of the committee that they now intend to authorise the government to sell the JAS 39 Gripen C/D, that is, the plans even here in the pulpit that we need to keep. The question is therefore: have the Swedish democrats put their foot down on this issue or not? It is one thing that the committee and the Riksdag have given the government the authority to sell defence equipment we do not have an operational need for in the Swedish Armed Forces. What is now happening, however, is something quite unique, namely the authorisation to sell what the defence needs. I do not understand in any way how the equation goes together intellectually for the Swedish Democrats. If it is now intended to give this authority to the government, I must ask what in heaven's name it is that has led the Swedish Democrats – after being approved in committee – to completely change their views on this issue.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-716	Mr President, I would like to It's not that complicated, really. If our draft budget had been approved, there would have been no need to sell any C/D planes. We don't want to do that. We have our own line, so to speak, which means that we want more than 60 planes– we want 200 planes in the long term. Buying Gripen is very cheap for Sweden; we have our own production of fighter aircraft, which very few countries have. Saab is now tying the grip around the market, which is a very interesting location. Why, then, have we changed our minds on the issue that was up in committee this morning? Well, our draft budget will not go through. It will not be our budget that is the basis for the state's activities, but it will be the government's budget. Then we must take account of the situation as it is. We are afraid that the existing number of plans that will actually exist in the coming years may be too low, which will be a strategic risk. Nor do we dare to participate in anything that could jeopardise export orders of Gripen. This was a tangled matter with many loose ends in, but had the Parliament adopted our budget it would have been easy. Then we wouldn't have had to phase out any C/ D planes at all. We think that is the wrong line. However, in the current situation, where our budget has not been adopted in this House, we must take the path we have taken.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-719	Mr President, I would like to What Mikael Jansson says is directly wrong. It is one thing that, on purely budgetary issues, we cannot vote against the government's proposals when our options fall. But this is not a budget issue; it is an authorisation. Our excellent office has not said at any time during the entire preparation process that it will be impossible to deny the government the authority, so it is not good enough to hide behind this, Mikael Jansson. You say that we need all these C/ D aircraft and that we could have bought many more if your draft budget had been passed. There is an old expression that reads a better bird in the hand than ten in the forest, but that thesis is not conform with the policy of the Swedish Democrats. What you are doing now is to decommission aircraft we actually have, in favour of the hope that at some point in the future you will buy in an unknown number of hundred new aircraft. This doesn't hold. I ask my question again, because I note that the Swedish Democrats refuse to answer it: what makes the Swedish Democrats turn 180 degrees on this issue at five past twelve o'clock? Have the Swedish Democrats been contacted about this? What has changed your mind, Mikael Jansson? Please answer that question!
i-b136d9c000f52d16-722	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we are discussing and analysing the data together with others who have knowledge, but we have not had contact with the red-green ones. We have only informed the red-greens that there is now a different attitude on our part. We think your committee initiative is very good, Allan Widman. This could be included by the government in next year's budget bill, i.e. one export order at a time. That's a good principle. We think it is much better than what the budget proposal looks like this year. However, we do not dare to risk a dip in the existing number of fighter aircraft in the coming years, and we do not want to risk export orders on Gripen. Because it's important. Saab is tying the grip on the market, and the orders we get in the near future can affect large upcoming orders that we have the opportunity to. It was too well that this House decided that we should develop our own fighter planes. Maybe that's the decision that saved the most money. I can't see any decision that's been so profitable for us. It is investigated by a KTH professor that it is free when we buy Gripen. Socio-economically, that's a good thing. If we had bought American planes, it would have cost us hundreds of billions of dollars. We verigedemocrats have always been in favour of the Gripen initiative and of Swedish engineers, and we shall be in favour of the development of high-tech defence equipment of this and other kinds. Because it is very important for the country.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-727	Mr President, I would like to I noticed that Mikael Jansson was rumbling up on one, than the other material project he wants to invest in – perhaps at a level of detail I would not have liked, but it is well up to the Swedish Democrats how much they want to go in and tinker on all the nuts and so on. I think it is easy to promise big investments when you have an opposition budget that may not really make sense. It is a classic that every time the Swedish Democrats leave a budget motion, economic experts find that it is not feasible politics. Savings are expected that are not realistic and would not be feasible. There are very large cuts, especially on the migration side, which cannot be made even if one would like to. My real question, however, is about something else. We have talked a lot about the materials, and I would like to go into the new era of warfare and hybrid threats. We have not least influence operations, something that was actually seen last autumn through the person who in the media has gone under the name Egor Putilov. That person was allowed to leave the Swedish Democrats' Parliament Office, but the party itself felt in its press release that the person did not pose a security threat. At least it was not acknowledged, but it referred to the fact that there has been too much media writing. On this basis, I would like to ask whether Mikael Jansson thinks that Mr Putilov was a potential security threat and that it was right for him to leave his post from that point of view. (TALMANN: I would like to remind you that we are debating Category 6 Defence and society's emergency preparedness. )
i-b136d9c000f52d16-732	Mr President, I would like to Our draft budget and the savings we have are controlled by Parliament's investigation service, Anders Schröder, so that's really what you're criticising. There are biased economists who say that our figures do not add up, but again: It is a criticism of the parliamentary investigation service. So we are reducing new immigration. The fact that it makes money can probably be calculated by many, because the immigration we have had does not match the demands of the labour market right now. It's very expensive. In all our cities we can see that there are districts where very few are in work. The fact that you make money by not having such a type of immigration is, of course, also between your thumb and your index finger, but our figures are therefore controlled. I believe that we will see a great deal of influence from the nations of the world that are currently involved in such things, and Russia is such a country. We will see many people trying to get in to get information and influence. It can affect everyone, so to speak. As far as Putilov was concerned, he had received other employments where he had managed to infiltrate. The fact that he was not suitable to be employed by us became clear in time. I had nothing to do with him, and I don't know what his background is. If he was a dangerous person in this regard, I don't know; I just feel safe considering that at least he didn't get into the defense department, where we work. Clearly, attention should be paid to this. I can agree with that.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-736	Mr President, I would like to As far as the budget is concerned, you can certainly send many different questions to Parliament's investigation service. Those of us who have done this know that they are counting on all kinds of hypothetical scenarios. But just because they expect it to be hypothetically feasible does not mean that it would be feasible to implement it in practice. It is about the political realities and the international conventions to which we are linked when it comes to receiving people, for example. It is not possible to dismantle an authority at any rate. What are the socio-economic effects if you make very rapid changes to benefit systems, which the Swedish Democrats expect? This is what I refer to when I say: this is not something that I think goes together economically. As far as Mr Putilov is concerned, I am pleased to note that there is still some sort of progress. Let's go from the fact that this isn't a problem to maybe it's a problem-- you don't know. I am pleased that Mikael Jansson is at least taking one step in that direction.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-739	Mr President, I would like to As regards conventions and what they set for borders, we know that the government we have today said: conventions are binding in that we cannot stop immigration to Sweden. That's what the Prime Minister said. But then for a while, and then he was able to stop immigration. The government thus makes different interpretations of the conventions – that is certain. We also know today that Denmark applies the Dublin Regulation directly. It is enough that we work on the agreements we have. Then we can stop much of the immigration into Sweden that is missing and costly in those parts. Those were the questions I understood.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-742	Mr President, I would like to We have a deteriorating security policy situation... and it's been called for a couple of years. The reason is above all the Russian action in our neighbourhood. The Russian regime has shown that it is prepared to use military power to achieve its political objectives by means of strong armaments and acts of international law in Ukraine. Russia's actions go completely against the European security regime, which means that each state must have the right to design its political future on its own, in a democratic spirit. The fact that this is no longer obvious in all parts of Europe is serious. In other European countries, too, we see examples of how the Putin regime is trying to influence politics. The Russian regime is currently engaged in advocacy work throughout the Western world, not least through cyber-attacks, espionage and disinformation campaigns. In connection with the election in the U.S., emocrats e-mail servers were hacked in order to damage Hillary Clinton and strengthen Donald Trump. Vladimir Putin has also granted significant loans to the French National Front's election campaigns. In Sweden, an official of the Swedish Democrats' Riksdag Office has devoted himself to misinformation under false name – there are suspicions of links with Russia. In Montenegro, a man with links to Russia has been arrested. He is accused of planning a coup to remove the current government and install a new one that is more skeptical to the West. Russia's long-term ambition is to weaken the West through division. Since 9 November this year, the security situation in the world is even more unclear. Donald Trump went to elections on a contradictory, unclear and populist foreign policy. One day he is an isolationist who threatens not to support his NATO allies. The next day he threatens to attack Iran. His documented systematic lying throughout the electoral movement means that we cannot honestly take him at his word. His foreign policy line is therefore unclear. It is difficult to know anything about it before he takes office as President in January. It is from this that I note with some surprise that the election of Trump in some bourgeois circles has been used as an argument for NATO membership. I think that those people who want to tie Sweden to a common defence guarantee with the United States would do well to await the arrival of the Trump administration before dismissing any new risks that NATO membership could pose for us. Instead, let us develop the defence policy cooperation that we have with the United States, but also with, for example, the United Kingdom, Poland and, above all, Finland! The fact that a process has been initiated with Germany to further broaden the scope with which we cooperate is positive. Sweden should remain non-aligned. Mr President, I would like to In view of the increased uncertainty, the government and three of the bourgeois parties last year agreed on a specialization bill with the aim of strengthening the operational capacity of the combat units. That is the direction that our budget aims to implement. It is not unusual for me, as an environmentalist, to be asked: do you not want to dismantle? Or I might even have the question: do you not want to abolish the defence? Like the United Nations, the Green Party has a long-term vision of global disarmament. It is a vision that I hope many share. But today's political decisions must start from what the world actually looks like rather than what we want it to look like. We have carried out such a security policy analysis together with the other parties in the Defence Committee. We agree that the deterioration of the world situation means that the defence needs to be strengthened. In the 2015 specialization bill, five parties agreed to inject more than 10 billion into the defence by 2020. It's an important trend break. Special priorities that are pointed out in the specialization bill are investments on the base plate to increase the combat capability of the units, submarine hunting capabilities and a deployed combat group on Gotland. The deployment of ÖB chose to advance from the deteriorating security policy situation, which I see as a positive example of the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to act proactively if you feel that it is needed. At the same time as the work to increase the operational capability of combat units here at home is ongoing, Swedish soldiers are participating in international efforts in a number of countries around the world. The efforts in Mali, Afghanistan and Iraq, together with Swedish aid, contribute to increasing security in unstable regions. It is therefore logical that Sweden should increase its contribution by military advisors in Iraq following such a request from the coalition. The steps taken with the Specialisation Bill to strengthen the defence's operational capacity and now implemented in the budget are important. At the same time, there is still more to be done, not least with regard to the broader threat picture. Hybrid threats involving cyber warfare, disinformation campaigns and other types of impact operations have become more common. I believe that these are areas where our defences will need to be strengthened even more in the future. Next year, a new defence committee will be set up. I look forward to discussing these issues in that forum with several of my colleagues in this House. In doing so, I am in favour of Amendment No 5 and otherwise support the proposal in the report.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-751	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members and listeners! This is one of the more important opportunities during this year and the closing month to review what is needed to have good preparedness and defence capabilities and also the conditions for next year's activities. Many different contributions have highlighted where we stand today. The fundamental and important thing now is to look ahead and learn from what has been. But it is also a question of having as realistic a picture as possible of what is actually happening and what it is that we must take seriously. It's been moving fast. It continues to become even more uncertain. The world looks more worried now than it did when the Defence Committee handed over the report that formed the basis for defence policy considerations and the orientation decision that was taken in spring 2015. In a more troubled world, leadership, gathering and action are needed with a focus on reaching long-term but also sufficient content in the decisions that need to be made. The recent relatively rapid change in the security situation in our surrounding world means that many geopolitical truths may need to be reconsidered. We can no longer take past assumptions for granted. We have followed the effects and discussions of Brexit and the presidential elections in the United States. Last New Year's Eve, Russia adopted its latest security strategy. There are devastating wars and conflicts in the Middle East, Ukraine and more places. It affects us and Europe's absolute neighbourhood. The consequences for our country of the thoughts and actions of the Russian regime now and in the future must be taken seriously. Our society is really vulnerable. We are facing both old and new hybrid threats. We're facing cyber attacks. We see and note military violations, exercise activities, armaments and security policy signals, which all the more point to concern. We have a lot to take back with total defence planning and other efforts to strengthen the overall endurance in Sweden. I think it is urgent to really assess whether it is a sufficiently offensive ambition to begin the overall defence planning process at the end of this period of focus. I think it is something that needs to be speeded up, because it affects the whole of Sweden. It concerns all municipalities and all the authorities, and we know that the authorities' preparedness is different. You also have to understand what this is all about. The word, hybrid threats, must be understood much wider and deeper in our country. That is extremely fundamental. We stand by and are pleased that we reached the agreement that landed an additional 10,2 billion to the Swedish defence. We are actively involved in following up the defense decision, and we are caring for the agreement. At the same time, we also see that the current situation is different from that at the time. We in the Center Party also believe that it is important for the government to be able to make the necessary decisions and give the assignments to both the Swedish Armed Forces and the other authorities involved to analyse what is now required to meet the new threats and the new situation in the short term and also to come back to what additional resources are needed to strengthen defence capabilities. That's one perspective. The second is about future defence decisions. In the medium term, we need to do as thorough a job as possible. It is therefore very important that the studies that have been presented and those that will be presented in the near future and within a year are both taken care of and analysed thoroughly and that we see a holistic perspective. In order to be able to do the job as well as possible for the next decision, we believe that a defence committee needs to be called up in early 2017. Since we have the lowest share of GDP for defence resources in the Nordic countries at the moment – 1 per cent, while the average for the others is just over 1.3 per cent – we have landed for the Center Party in that a reasonable level of our defence expenditure is at least the Nordic average. This represents an additional EUR 11 billion per year in the current percentage. For a five-year period, it will be an additional 55 billion to reach the Nordic average. At the same time, we know that Denmark, Finland and Norway have announced changes in relation to early decisions. This is our goal: that we should be able to have a dialogue in the future defence preparation that begins earlier than expected in order to be able to land in a common ambition of at least the Nordic average as a proportion of GDP for defence expenditure. If we can achieve this, we will also create a much greater space for the Swedish Armed Forces to be able to implement the measures required for the 2020s.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-765	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party believes that Sweden should work with both civilian and, where necessary, military operations. We believe, however, that it is very important that civil and military operations are always kept closely separate in terms of personnel, equipment and finances. It is important that aid funds are not used for military operations and that activities are not confused, as it creates confusion and doubts about the impartiality and integrity of civil operations. Issues of military intervention are dealt with by the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. We are currently discussing further efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Swedish Parliament is therefore in a position to take these conditions into account in the treatment of individual peace-promoting efforts in order for the operation to be carried out in a way that does not contribute to confusion with aid efforts. It is very important for many reasons that they are kept separate, not least because the risk of violence against aid workers and others who work with exceptional relief measures increases when civilian personnel are associated with the military. I am, of course, in favour of this wording, but I am content in this House to ask for the approval of our reservation 9 and of reservation 5, which is common to S, V and MP. Reservation 9 is about better coordinating military and civilian resources at home. It may seem contradictory, but it is not at all if you think about it. This became quite obvious when it came to fire-fighting helicopters at the major forest fire in Västmanland in 2014, and it became even more evident in the following summer. Since the Armed Forces have no mission to dimension the needs of civil society, as it is said, it was interpreted as meaning that even when it came to helicopter drivers' holiday planning, no account was taken of possible firefighting. Fortunately, the summer of 2015 was rainy. Our view is that Sweden is far too small a country not to coordinate and coordinate its resources. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society and other authorities should only be provided in the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces' existing capabilities and resources. To coordinate the Swedish Armed Forces' capabilities and dimensions for certain types of civilian needs, we mean by relatively small means, could play a major role in civilian crisis management. It would, of course, also be more effective to use resources in this way from a socio-economic point of view. Of course, the Swedish Armed Forces still have the task of supporting the civil parts of society in a major crisis, but in my opinion that wording is not sufficient. A concrete example is the Air Force's acquisition of new target aircraft, which will take place in relative proximity, as the old aircraft from the 70s and 80s are beginning to end up. If the Armed Forces take civil needs into account, this could involve the acquisition of a new target flight to ensure that they also work for water bombing. It's in brackets the only kind of bomber I really appreciate. I therefore believe that it should be investigated how the Swedish Armed Forces can be clearly instructed both in their planning and in their operations to be able to assist society in the event of national crises and disasters. The investigation should cover extraordinary events involving both sea rescue and firefighting and natural disasters. In this context, the investigator should also review how a possible compensation system can be constructed, for of course the Swedish Armed Forces will be compensated for any additional costs in terms of both investments and operations. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 9.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-775	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats see the defence agreement as an important first step for a stronger defence that can effectively defend Sweden's borders. We see that the defence agreement needs to map out a new path for the Armed Forces to have available resources and the opportunity to defend our peace and freedom. However, what we already know, a year later, is that reality has caught up with the necessary bill a year ago. The situation in the Baltic Sea region has escalated only in the last year, and it is important to convene the defence preparation once again in order to urgently start a new effort to map out the path to a stronger defence, in which we Christian Democrats believe that the stated objective should be that defence spending should be up to 2% of GDP. We also think it is urgent. One suggestion could be that the Defence Group should be given the task of identifying the issues of particular urgency and discussing their financing so that some decisions could be brought forward. However, it is not the only means that will be able to solve the Swedish Armed Forces' relatively weakened situation today. Changes need to be made on the staff supply side, and here we welcome the recent investigation. Mr President, I would like to The psychological defence needs to be strengthened. Disinformation campaigns have become commonplace in Sweden and in our neighbouring countries. In the case of journalist Jessikka Aro at Yle, it became even more clear that disinformation is not just a matter of individual countries but is a matter of the whole democratic order we know today. Disinformation is a problem that must be taken very seriously by both individual countries in cooperation as well as by the cooperation bodies that have the security issue at their table, including the United Nations. In order to strengthen the work against misinformation, we Christian Democrats in our budget motion propose SEK 40 million more than the government in the coming years to combat misinformation. We propose that this work be carried out by a separate authority. Unfortunately, we believe that the work has become too anonymous in MSB. The new authority should be tasked with mapping disinformation, conducting research in this field and reviewing how source criticism can become a major part of the education. Time and again we have seen an emergency preparedness in the country that has left much to be desired. For example, let us return to the fire in Västmanland in 2014. Everyone involved did a fantastic job, but they did not have all the necessary tools at hand to complete the operation. Had there been better possibilities for fire-fighting from the air in Sweden, the damage caused by the fire could possibly have been limited. At the plane accident in the Lapland mountains in January this year, the Swedish rescue helicopter never even made it from the airport. There we have Norway to thank for the help to locate the accident site. This means that we have to question whether Sweden has the necessary emergency preparedness or not, whether we have the best tools for the task and primarily who is set to do the task and who can do the task. We Christian Democrats agree with the other alliance parties that the use of the Armed Forces helicopters should be reviewed. We also believe that the role of the Swedish Armed Forces in society should be reviewed in a broader perspective. The organisation's competence can be used even when other than purely military pressures occur in society, for example in the event of natural disasters and serious accidents. The Swedish Armed Forces are already to some extent helpful in such situations. A defence investigation should look at how the Swedish Armed Forces could be more helpful to society in situations where other bodies do not meet the task. The investigation should also examine any obstacles, legal as well as practical, that exist for the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to assist society in these situations. With these words, I would like to point out that, of course, I support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only call for the approval of reservation 10, which relates to the broader perspective that I have just outlined.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-787	Mr President, I would like to In 2017 it is 46.1 billion, in 2018 it is 47.2, in 2019 it is 49.5 and in 2020 it is 51.6 billion to the defence. The defence deal is worth 10.2 billion. As I see it, everyone who has participated in the settlement has been involved in a positive way and stands for it together. It gets a little pathetic when one after the other takes credit for one or the other in such a deal. You stand together for a deal, and then you manage the deal together. That's what we do in the defense team. The aim is to increase military capabilities and deepen international cooperation. It happens step by step. What we now deliver is a training activity at a much higher level than before. It is armored defence capability, grenade launchers, bridgecars, short- and medium-range air defences, sensors, enhanced submarine hunting capability, mid-term modification of the ships Gävle and Sundsvall, spread of air bases, lifetime extension of Tp84 Hercule, two new submarines, next generation JAS Gripen, defense base plate, ammunition, personal equipment and vehicles. These elements are included in the settlement and will be delivered at different intervals over the years. This, of course, is a daily struggle to accomplish. There is a risk of delays and delays. You have to work all the time to make the deliveries happen. Until the end of 2020, this will increase Swedish military capabilities. Many people find it more interesting to discuss the time beyond the execution of this decision, and they seem to take it for granted that this only rolls in without having to work on the issue. I want to have this said, because it is demanding to try to get this into the lake. Under construction are also six combat aircraft divisions, two brigade reconnaissance companies and a motorized shooting battalion. In the autumn of the change budget, we will contribute SEK 450 million to get 12 artillery pieces of the Archer type. A further 12 are available for future sales or the possibility of incoming defence preparation deciding to handle them in another way. There have been preparedness adjustments through the decision to advance the battle group on Gotland. The Swedish Armed Forces have also decided on a ground-based coastal robot. The Swedish Parliament has decided that all personnel needed for increased preparedness should be war-placed within the Swedish Armed Forces. It is a decision that we are making. The aim is for the army to act simultaneously with two brigades. Of course, we can discuss whether this is enough. Me n me d the level that this was at when the work started is what we have to struggle with in everyday life. History has been much discussed. I got into work in 2011, and I didn't feel very involved in the previous story. But I took note of the fact that there was not only in Sweden but also in the outside world, in other countries, an astonishing naivety and a difficulty in taking into account how the outside world developed. They had to fight hard to get an impact for a shift in Swedish defence from a focus on international operations to national defence. Now we're there. An important decision that I hope for in the next year is the resumption of military service. A proposal has been made by Annika Nordgren Christensen. It's based on a professional part and a conscription part. It is an important question for the future, and I have noted the shift that has taken place in the general debate. More and more people think this is an important step. Even those who previously acted as if they were saved in the professional defense now accept that the breadth is needed. International cooperation is developing at a tremendous rate. We have reached a closer deal with the Baltic countries, Finland, Denmark, Poland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Nordefco is an extremely important partner. It is therefore a question of exercise activities, equipment, air mode and interoperability. By practicing together and doing things together, we prepare ourselves to also be able to act together in a possible crisis situation. What happens is important. Those who downplay the importance of bilateral cooperation and practice and feel that they do not have a real effect, I believe, are not really in reality. This is an extremely important and important activity which raises the threshold and which I know is appreciated by other countries. Our work meets respect. Swedish-Finnish cooperation meets respect on a broad scale. This is a positive way of taking responsibility for the security situation in our part of Europe. Sweden and Finland do this together. I believe that in many respects we have moved defence and security policy in the right direction. This is the platform we have to move forward on as we approach the next defence preparation and do the obvious work of planning for a forthcoming defence decision. There is no political disagreement there. There'll be a defense committee next year. The challenges are great. We'll take them together. I eventually hope for a broad settlement that can provide a solid platform for economics and military capabilities growth even after 1 January 2021.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-802	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for participating in our defence budget debate! I think it is wise and important for those of us who have supported the defence decision to be proud of what is now being done. I think there is every reason to be. I also think that all of us in this House can be united in being proud of all parts of the Swedish Armed Forces and that all parts of the Swedish Armed Forces should be proud to be part of Sweden's defence. There we all have something to care for, regardless of party affiliation or bloc membership. I think there are several elements in the deal that are good – Gotland, submarine hunting and some other things. I also think that the security policy investigation, including the investigation of NATO membership, delivered by Krister Bringéus a few months ago, was far better than many could imagine. It is so good that there are those who want to point a little distance to it. It deserves to be read and taken into account. Mr President, I would like to That is not really what I was going to comment on. One thing that has animated the parties behind the defence settlement has been to increase operational capabilities, especially the effects here and now. During Question Time earlier today, we had an exchange of views, the Minister for Defence and I, about the threat that Nord Stream 2 poses and the possible activity it could entail if we get that type of pipeline in the Baltic Sea in some or a few years' time. There are some other things that also worry me. It is possible that the Minister of Defence for fear of receiving a KU notification does not wish to comment on them, but there are things that risk going out over our operational capabilities. What happens if we establish this type of mass winds in Hanö Bay? If that becomes a fact, what are the consequences for our operational capabilities? What are the consequences for operational capability if we have Russian pipelines in the Baltic Sea? There is one more point that the Minister for Defence himself has made: the consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces in terms of state aviation.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-812	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the balance! We need to guard the defense deal. It cannot be stressed enough that the 70% majority in the Riksdag is an asset for Sweden, both internally towards our own population and externally towards the outside world. I hope that relationship will continue in the future. The questions about Nord Stream 2 and the winds in Hanöbukten are both such that I can speak with simplicity into the KU. The mass winds, as Hans Wallmark calls them, are a matter that is a legacy of the previous government. It's been lying for years without being handled. It's a government matter. I cannot comment on an official matter until we have taken a government decision on it. As far as Nord Stream 2 is concerned, I have explained earlier today what it looks like for me. So we will have a meeting with the municipalities next week. I can say that we have carried out a very thorough safety policy analysis. There is a lot of material in connection with this that we have taken in from the authorities. I think I am well informed of all aspects of this matter. I don't want to go any further than that today. We may have the idea that we are all in some way inspired by the best for Sweden and that we all in some way, based on the legal possibilities and other possibilities available, try to work to solve what is a problem. In fact, it is not someone who in any way wants to put Sweden in a worse situation. Today, there is also broad knowledge of the new security policy situation. There was a time when we needed to hit each other in the head properly on those questions. I was part of that process, I can say, but now I feel that we have a fairly broad consensus on the ground.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-818	Mr President, I would like to I'll start where the Secretary of Defense left off, with Nord Stream 2. I am absolutely convinced that if the facts are allowed to speak in the case and you take to heart the whole picture that exists around Nord Stream 2 there is really no other decision you can come to on Gotland or in Karlshamn than that you should help prevent Russian pipes and Russian activity in the two places. In that part, we're not getting any further, so I wish the Secretary of Defense and his associates every success. I know that wise arguments go home, because I talked to the Moderates on Gotland and in Karlshamn. They seemed to understand that there is no legal ban on putting the national interest first. I also think it is important, Mr President, that we realise that we in this House are convinced by increasing the operational impact here and now. At the same time, however, we must have the ability to look beyond the defence decision, and we must find that balance. That is why it is also important to emphasise – I just want to emphasise it; I am not going to stress the Minister for Defence any more – how important it is that some other government decisions are linked to our own operational capabilities. If we allow the establishment of windmills in the Gulf of Hanö in the way and to the extent desired, there will be consequences. It will cost money, which ultimately risks going out on the operational capability. If Nord Stream pulls the lead in the Baltic Sea, it can also have consequences. In addition, I wish the Ministry of Defence good luck in developing new guidelines for state aviation. It is not a big item, but it is one of many different items where you lose the defence budget. I am among those who believe that the defence budget should be used to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities in a long time.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-825	Mr President, I would like to The rules that now apply to state flights were decided by the previous government, so we also have an inheritance there. We will, of course, try to look at what is the reasonable balance in terms of the costs to the Armed Forces. I don't know why you made the decisions you made, but that's the way it was. Thank you for all your best wishes. It's almost like I feel like I need to wish Hans Wallmark Merry Christmas too. As far as the defence decision is concerned, we will start this process. There are, of course, many aspects to the work of a defence preparation, and it will flow back and forth. I just hope that all the members in the preparation are convinced by the defence of Sweden and sovereignty and that we are trying to find a way to agree as far as possible, with a broad majority in Parliament for an increased military capability. Nevertheless, we must look at what we are doing now, and then it is important that we deliver the current defence decision in order to have a platform for the next defence decision. It is a matter of credibility. It is important that we see this process as a step-by-step process that can eventually end with a broad decision that takes new steps. We live in a world that is uncertain in many ways. There has been a change that is real and that I think most people are seeing today. This means that we must continue to join forces in the future.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-830	Mr President, I would like to During my speech, I asked the Minister for Defence if he knew of anyone who had contacted the Swedish Democrats and could explain their sudden turn on the issue of authorisation. I understood after listening to Mikael Jansson that it is the industry concerned that has been in contact. I always get a little conjured when the Secretary of Defense uses the term defense arrangement. In my world, it implies a kind of conciliation rather than a real consensus. However, it is now almost a year and a half since this defence agreement came about. My question to the Minister for Defence is: Does the Minister of Defence consider that the security situation in relation to June 2015 is the same today, or is it deteriorating and, if so, how deteriorated? The Minister of Defence is happy to talk for a long time about the various bilateral agreements that Sweden has regarding cooperation in the defence sector. My question is whether these bilateral agreements between Sweden and other countries contain any guarantees of assistance and support in the event of a crisis or war. Sverker Göranson, our former Supreme Commander, spoke a number of years ago – it was four five years ago now – that he could defend Sweden in one direction for a week. He concluded by saying that then the help must come. My question is whether the Minister for Defence shares the judgment of the then Supreme Commander. If so, where will help come from?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-835	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman is the master at making up concepts that cause the weight and the positive in an event in some way to be degraded. Now it was conciliation instead of defence settlement. It is a way of downplaying the importance of a 70-percent majority in the Swedish Parliament. I don't like that kind of debate methodology, because it's just a way of trying to do something good a little bad or shaky. I see this as a good platform for the future. One can take an example of bilateral cooperation in order to be very clear about the importance of this. If Norway's, Sweden's and Finland's Air Force in the framework of Cross Border Training practises almost weekly at the North Calott there will be a common strength that can make the exercise activities much more extensive, larger and more complex than if each country does this itself. In practice, this will be a signal for security policy, which is also perceived by others. What we practice is interoperability and cooperation in practice, and that is one way of raising the threshold. This is often crucial if one can do something together in a crisis situation. Sweden is currently building many collaborations to build interoperability and thus be able to act together with others in a crisis situation. But what we do, how we do it, and where we interfere in such a situation, we decide. We have now in an extremely good way deepened cooperation with Finland in many respects, and that process continues. I am discussing this – how to create conditions – very from a purely practical perspective. Allan Widman usually discusses contract signatures and what it can look like if you join an organization.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-839	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I maintain that the very concept of agreement is more indicative of a recent conflict of opinion than a genuine consensus. But I'm not gonna hang on to this. However, I share the opinion of the Minister for Defence that it is shaking properly at the moment in the so-called defence settlement. First of all, the international situation has deteriorated drastically since 2015; this is what shakes most in the settlement. Recognising this, as the Minister for Defence has to reasonably do in view of his own rhetoric, we can see that the money that was considered to be in line with the international situation in June 2015 is no longer. Then it is the task of every responsible politician to ensure that political decisions are supplemented, preferably as soon as possible. The Minister for Defence was many-worded about the value of bilateral cooperation, but the truth, Mr President, is that all these cooperations are supposed to end in the event of crisis and war. Thus, even by definition, they cannot be called defence cooperation. I did not get an answer to my question about the assessment that General Sverker Göranson made a few years ago, and I therefore understand that the Minister for Defence shares that assessment but is not at all prepared to answer the following question: where will the aid come from?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-843	Mr President, I would like to I think Allan Widman's combat technique is becoming more and more interesting. If you have not had time to comment, he assumes that you all of a sudden share an opinion. He talks about responsible politicians like there is only one conclusion to be drawn if you are responsible. I see this as a rather broad teamwork, and I perceive that virtually everyone involved in the defence settlement is responsible politicians. I also consider Allan Widman to be in some sense responsible. Then there are different views in different contexts. But the insidious way to downgrade others, I don't think it's fair, to be honest. It's said the deal's shaking. It's not shaking, is it? What we are doing now is fighting to deliver what the Riksdag has decided. The bilateral cooperation, which is now worth nothing, accounts for 70% of Parliament. The fact that Allan Widman hasn't put up for the defense deal is his business. But 70 per cent of Parliament has done so. No one has told me that the agreement with the United States or the 53-point agreement with the United Kingdom is pointless. Is it the case that I should not continue the discussion with Germany about an agreement? Then say it! Is the agreement with Denmark meaningless? That's not how it works. You're saying this has no value in crisis. What do you know about it? We agreed on the analysis: most of these countries are in danger of becoming involved in a crisis. Then we may also have to have an idea of how we act in crisis, and that is what these cooperations are opening up to. I'm discussing practice; you're talking theory.
i-AcC5CyHxtvEr16o4b9qzhR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the opportunity for this important dialogue. I usually engage in practical commitments, combined with some thinking activities, see the need for both. In this area, it is very much about making it work in practice. I am both grateful that we landed in the agreement and extremely anxious that it should be a basis for our continued talks. The agreement that was reached builds defence capabilities over the next few years and provides an important focus for what to think about in the 20s and beyond. Not least the investigations that the government has launched after the defence agreement are important in order to get a good basis and then be able to land practical parts. One of the investigations that have been presented is the human resources investigation. The fact that the government now has the opportunity to take a decision linked to this proposal in the near future means that it has a significant impact on the economic space for the 20th century. The proposal amounts to 2 billion at a level where 8 000 are trained in 2022 and the years thereafter. One of the reasons why I think it is important to get started with the defence preparation is that this type of decision will affect the whole of the 20's and next defense period. It is also a reason to deepen the dialogue in the near future in order to have time to initiate the necessary processes in addition to current defence decisions. Does the Minister share that view?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-852	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that we fundamentally have such different views. Now we have a practical process to implement when it comes to delivering the decisions. Then we need to get started with the defence preparation next year, and that's when we build the foundation for what will come after 2021. It is a good thing that this debate has already begun to take place in a certain sense, because it can provide input for a forthcoming preparation. The other day the perspective plan came from the Swedish Armed Forces; it is an important document that can be based on. Then it is always a question of wholeness, and we have, for example, an enormous challenge in terms of the whole of total defence, with military, civilian and purely civilian emergency preparedness. With regard to the staff inquiry that we have carried out in the light of what we said in the orientation decision and the political settlement, as soon as the consultation round is completed on 31 January, I will call the parties for a discussion on how to proceed. I have made our approach quite clear, and I know that there are many others who have similar positions. So maybe we can find a new project together. Then there is the material side, which is an enormous challenge. There we will also set up an investigation that will go through repair and maintenance issues but also the material mountain and the major challenges in, for example, the marines that we have ahead of us. One should deliver a material to the defence committee, and I think this investigation is almost historically unique because it goes to the bottom of the material problem in the Swedish Armed Forces. There the defence preparation will have a real challenge to deal with.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-856	Mr President, I would like to What the Minister highlighted about total defence planning is very important in this context and is related to the whole. When we landed in the defence agreement, the focus was on defence expenditure, and then we would come back to the dialogue on what is otherwise needed to achieve the best overall defence preparedness possible. In view of the even more uncertain situation we have in our area and in the immediate vicinity of Europe, I am anxious that overall defence planning really will be as good as possible, as soon as possible, in practice. Resources will be needed there too, and this must get into the conversation. That is another reason to start the long-term preparation discussion immediately, because large resources will be required. If you already have a level of 2 billion in order to be able to have a staff supply in balance in 2022 and the years there, we will soon be up to nearly 9-10 billion for the next defence period, only on the staff side. This corresponds to the level we landed at for the first part between 2016 and 2020. In addition, the Minister mentioned material challenges. We can add additional billions that will be needed to build up defence capabilities in this country. Then there is the civil defence readiness, which will involve many people and authorities. There are, in practice, many missions missing today in order to do this much better. At the same time, the threat of hybrid threats, propaganda, misinformation and disruptions to our civil society today is a reality that must be met now, not in four years' time. I hope that the Minister and the Government are really actively working for this, given that the Green Party and the Social Democrats are responsible for the governance of the country.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-861	Mr President, I would like to As Mrs Bäckström said, we have challenges in terms of both personnel and equipment and civil defence. I am not going to go into what economic levels or amounts will apply in the future, but it is the ability that we must step by step increase. What this should look like exactly and what different components should be included must a future defence preparation take a stand on and chisel out. Once this is done and you arrive at some kind of level you feel reasonably agreed on, we'll start looking at the money and how we can get through that part. For my part, I am not prepared to start with the money and look at the content then, but my way is to try to do the opposite. On the whole, I feel that we have a similar view of these issues, and then we should also be able to find ways of doing things in practice. Whatever the case, the defence of Sweden is the important thing in this context. We cannot afford to get too deep into party political strife, but the important thing is to deliver for the public, also as a signal to the outside world. I also wish Daniel Bäckström a Merry Christmas.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-865	Mr President, I would like to EU security policy developments face crucial challenges. The increasingly authoritarian development of Russia creates a new security policy situation not only in Sweden but throughout Europe. EU leaders see the reality and want to act forcefully. We see proposals as an EU army, which we believe could be the solution. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: what crisis management capabilities does the government think the EU needs to develop primarily, and which countries could it be possible to move forward with?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-867	Mr President, I would like to Within the EU, we agree that we will strengthen support for the missions that we have in Africa in particular, in countries such as Mali, Somalia and the Central African Republic and in various ways ensure that they can function better. We shall also strengthen civilian emergency preparedness within the framework of the European Union. It is clear that NATO has its role and that the EU has its own and that these must complement each other. We should not build parallel structures and organisations; that is important. An EU defence headquarters and some sort of EU army is not up to date, and we agree on that. Areas of cooperation that may be important for the future include the hybrid issue and the cyber issue. I believe that both the EU and NATO could do a great deal together. There are also many other areas where we could develop our relationship. These are, of course, processes and not something that only happens overnight. Once you have made this kind of decision, you have to work to complete it. Within the framework of the European Defence Agency, there is cooperation that seeks to find ways to stimulate and strengthen the capacity of the material side. From the Swedish side, we have been very clear that the defence industry issue is national and must be based on intergovernmental cooperation. At all, the Swedish position is intergovernmental cooperation. The government I represent is not federalist, but we stand for intergovernmentalism.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-872	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. The hybrid and cyber issue is, of course, important and a good area to cooperate on, but I do not think we should believe that the issue of an EU army is in any way dead. The tougher we see the security policy situation, the stronger countries will want to move forward. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Secretary of Defense about battle groups and how the government sees the future there? Is it time for a review to see whether these battle groups should be used more frequently? The opportunities to use them have not been missed, but they have never been used.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-875	Mr President, I would like to On the issue of an EU army, there are firm views. It is clear that NATO and the EU should not build organisations that compete or become tensions in relation to each other. I understand that we agreed on this. I do not believe that it is possible simply to build an EU army or a European defence. Defence is essentially a national matter. When it comes to battle groups, the premise is that everyone agrees that they should be used. We can look at different forms of organisation, and I and the government have nothing against it if we can find ideas in different ways for how to develop them. But remember, everyone has to stand behind it if we're going to take advantage of it. It may have been a limiting factor in finding out what you are asking for, the very use. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
i-b136d9c000f52d16-877	Mr President, I would like to There has been some talk about society's emergency preparedness. But there may not have been so much crisis awareness in these questions but rather very rose red colors. Let me therefore take a different approach to this issue. I can begin by stating what the government says: that the objectives of society's emergency preparedness have only been partially achieved. I can also say that after two years with the government, parts have even deteriorated. I am thinking primarily of the part-time fire brigades and their staff. Let me be clear: it is not the existing staff that is the problem, but the lack of staff. The staff of the fire brigade today, I would say, have more competence, better training and more ability than our firefighters have ever had. However, it can be noted that all municipalities are currently having problems recruiting part-time firefighters to a greater or lesser extent. In this context, it is important to know that part-time firefighters make up two thirds of our entire fire crew. What happens when you get into a situation? Yes, of course you have to close the station in case of reduced service. Maybe the part-time firemen that's left will have to work double shifts. This leads to a negative spiral that makes it even more difficult to recruit part-time firefighters. This is basically a municipal responsibility, but it does not mean that the government lacks responsibility in these parts. Of course, the lack of commitment that has been seen on this issue makes it more difficult for municipalities to solve the problem. After all, I have understood that the government has a greater political ambition than being a Nightwatchman's State. But when you see that not even the basic night watchman's state is given the opportunity to function, you are of course worried. Finally, on this issue, I note that the government has not been able to present for two years a single measure to improve the recruitment of part-time firefighters. The government says that real staff is one thing, that the personnel composition of the civil protection services should be better reflected in what society looks like. It is very little help for those fire brigades who do not have any personnel that the government wants you to have a different composition. Mr President, I would like to The climate changes that are now taking place and that are expected to occur in the coming years mean not only a difference in temperature but also a difference in precipitation. In some places rainfall will increase, and in others it will decrease. We've already noticed that. It is not a secret, either locally or globally. However, when it comes to the government's instructions to their authorities, they seem to have overlooked this. The resources of the authorities are available only in the event of increased rainfall. In the event of no rain, there is no possibility of receiving aid from state authorities. Of course, you can think about that. How should the state support when various crises arise? Two principles can be fundamental. One is that it should be predictable, and the other that the costs have been incurred because of the municipality or because the municipality has been involved in other ways. In terms of predictability, one might wonder whether the municipalities of Öland, for example, could have foreseen that there would be extreme drought this year. Of course, it is an island with low rainfall and special geography that prevents water from being collected as in other places. Surely, however, no meteorologist or anyone else felt that it could be foreseen. The second principle is whether costs have been incurred by the municipality. It is difficult to lead in evidence that healthcare, school and care on Öland have led to climate change. I think few could argue for that. The result? As a result, municipalities in Öland had to take extreme measures to solve the water shortage. If it had not been done, we would have ended up in a major crisis. Households would not have been able to get water. And apart from the fact that workplaces and animals had been left without water, it would have affected all the basic functions of society. Of course, this should not be a way of getting agricultural or business support. There should be when the basic functions of society do not work. Then society should have a role. When the situation arose, the municipalities of Öland contacted the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and received the answer: No, we have no mandate to help you with anything. Mr President, I would like to Municipalities should, of course, prepare for what may happen. But not all municipalities can prepare for everything. It must still be reasonable that things can happen. Otherwise, there will be poor financial management. It has cost the two municipalities of Öland about 150 million to take measures to get water, just this year. Should we turn it into the tax collective in Stockholm County, it is equivalent to 13 billion. It is a great effort, and the state has not contributed in any part. One might think – and we do Moderates – that natural disasters, as the government says it is, should be covered if they are a consequence of changed climate. It is therefore strange that the first government in Sweden's history that has a climate minister is not able to see that climate change leads to both increased and reduced precipitation.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-896	Mr President, I would like to The audience has been thinned out. The debate is about Category 6. I think that the efforts we are making should be mentioned. We are spending about 26 billion more this period. And as far as I can tell, we are the only party that is also making substantial investments in civil defence. In our budget, we target approximately 8 billion out of the 26 direct investments. That's why I think we're the only credible party. We understand that it is necessary to build civil defence in order for military defence to work. The alliance and others often say so. But if you look at your budget, it's gone. The Alliance is talking about 2% to be in NATO. You've said that for a long time. But where is the money to enable an application to NATO? Some have said it was in the long term. Then there were elections in the United States. Now it is probably not in the long term longer but in the rather short term. And where are your bets? Only a few months ago, you laid down your budget. There are no bets there other than the government. Liberals are exempt. I would like to say that the Liberals are becoming a bit credible in terms of their efforts. But if I look at the rather modest efforts of the Liberals, perhaps around 10 billion – there could be another billion – I wonder where the investments in civil defence are. How is it distributed? We think it is inadequate. But the Liberals are showing a clear direction and are becoming credible. You stand here and think you can do some self-criticism. What you should be doing is coming up here and apologizing to the Swedish people. You have completely destroyed the Swedish defence capability during the period when you were in government. You blame the Social Democrats on the fact that Göran Persson closed the units. Then you accelerated and broke the systems. You should be ashamed of yourself. Come up and apologize to the Swedish people! It's about trust. You stand in the speaker's chair and say you think you should bet again. But hundreds of billions of Swedish taxpayers' money has been spent on destroying the Swedish defence. We are the only party that has always said that the Swedish defence must not be adapted in view of the great power of Russia's day form without Sweden maintaining a strong Swedish defence. It's been rallied about it. The Moderates have spoken of special interests. And you have the nerve to make it look like you've switched sides. But you're the same people. And in your budget, you don't bet any more. Now you come and think that the Social Democrats are investing too little. One party after another says, "Now we're going out with preparations! Let's bet! But a month ago, you didn't. Where's the credibility? Mr. Wallmark has left. It doesn't matter. He blames himself. He told us that it is much better to have 28 friends. But I'm behaving to have Turkey as a friend. He's counting them in. Seeking such friends may be a moderate problem. But you will never find a Swedish democrat with Turkey. I'll comment on our efforts a little. We are therefore investing in civil defence, in economic defence and in the establishment of a psychological defence. It is about billions, over time, within the framework of the 8 billion. It's really important to start that work. As we all know, a total duty of defence is likely to come. Then it's very important that they get the resources. We also give NGOs a special budget. Now they're under the Armed Forces. When they had a presentation for us, they said it would be good to have your own budget. We'll break it out. Volunteer organisations are taught how to manage their own budget and feel confident about working with it. The Green Party scored a small point on a job. I think you're in trouble. You yourself have called your politics shit politics when you talk about this by closing borders. We think you have the most problems with yourself and your Islamists, kicking mouthpieces and other things, so we will have that discussion on another occasion. I won't say much about the Center. But we've worked this out. You are not reducing the budget, but you are still at the same level. Then I think that the Left Party is going in the wrong direction when you always want to distinguish between military and civilian equipment outside the country. It shows you've never been there. One should always strive to distinguish between this. All the reasons he mentioned are true. But everyone who has been abroad knows that there are many situations where you do that sometimes. However, it should not be decided to always distinguish between military and civil materials. As we have written in a motion before, we think that you should move the state aircraft to Arlanda. There you want to spend half a billion on building a hangar. The staff who worked there have already moved. We wrote a motion a year ago, and we have repeated it again. It now forms the basis for a reservation. The conclusion of our policy in this area is that it is also necessary to invest in what it says it should invest in. As far as our analysis of the uncertainty is concerned, we believe, as I said, that a strong defence that we want to invest in – preferably in association with Finland – increases the stabilising factor in our part of Europe.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-913	Mr President, I would like to Sv erige's defence force is so-called dimensioned to be able to solve, if necessary, war tasks all over Sweden against an aggressive superpower. In addition, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Armed Forces will be able to support civil society in the event of crises of both a major and a minor nature. Total defence capabilities shall be dimensioned in order to be able to face armed attacks. Although support for civil society should not dimension military defence, the military defence should still have capabilities to support large-scale disasters in our country. Military defence is an important component of large-scale civilian disasters. The defense is the Swiss army knife of the community. It can be used for a lot when the civilian abilities are overloaded. To put it into practice, the Swedish Democrats, for example, want to see additions to the military defence so that the Hercule transport plane can also carry out water bombing operations in large-scale fires, such as the one in Västmanland. It is not clear today that we do not have such a capacity of our own, but must turn to other countries to solve things that should be arranged nationally. As previous speakers were on the subject, we want to provide funds to re-assess civil defence that will be able to solve tasks in both war and major disasters. Mr President, I would like to I would like to touch briefly on military and civil coordination in international action. In order for civilian operations to be carried out in a wide range of conflict zones, certain areas need to be secured by military personnel. There is an idea that the military can destroy the civilian efforts, which I think is a little too narrow-minded. In some parts of a conflict area there may not be a need for military intervention, that is quite true. However, in many areas military personnel may be required to secure these areas in order for civilian relief operations to be carried out. It is therefore important that coordination between civilian and military operations is carried out so that they can contribute to improving for the extremely vulnerable groups in the world's hotspots of conflict. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to address the total amount of sick leaves in this House and also the imperialist in the Kremlin. I turn first to the sick leaves and wonder what it feels like to be responsible for a cosmically irresponsible policy. You have dismantled, or you might say tossed down, to reverse the steak. You mean that Sweden today has a heavily underfunded defence, the defence that is supposed to be the insurance of the Swedish people in order for us to continue to be a free and democratic country. During the year, I have had the privilege of serving again on two occasions with my old colleagues and with the soldiers who are part of the armed forces which, after all, remain. I can promise the politicians of all sick leaves that, if necessary, all Swedish soldiers, officers and officers will fight until the last man if necessary, and we will never give up, despite the betrayal to which you have subjected the entire Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish people. I have a simple question for you in sick leaves: Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed that, in the event of a conflict, Swedish soldiers will have to fight with bad conditions? Are you not ashamed that the Swedish people will be subjected to unnecessary suffering in the event of a major conflict? All of this could have been avoided if we had never disarmed total defence capabilities, but once we have done so, we should have opened our eyes to what happened in the outside world long before. There should have been a much clearer ambition for a much greater rearmament of the entire total defence. A prolonged war involving us will put both our armed forces and, above all, our civilian population under extreme pressure. What, then, is the response of the collected leaves of sickness? Well, the so-called trend break – a trend break that is so minimal that it is barely visible in the margin. Even so, the sick leaves stand like cult members and celebrate this trend break. It sounds like you'd think you'd put a million-dollar army back on your feet. After all, the Swedish Armed Forces remain undersized in relation to the opponent we are expected to meet. Now I want to turn me to the rulers of the Kremlin. Despite these difficulties, the morale of Swedish armed forces remains extremely high. The pride and unity of Swedish armed forces forbid ever to give up. Swedish military units will fight as regular units until it is not possible to fight as regular units. On the other hand, a possible attacker should be very clear that it does not end there. The attitude is clear: Down to the last soldier! The Swedish war machine never stops fighting in regular warfare. This is something that every soldier in the Swedish Armed Forces is prepared to fight until the attacker gives up. I hope that signal will be made clear to the Kremlin. You will never succeed if you think you can try anything. If you step across the Baltic Sea, well, then we'll kick you back over it. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all of you who are still prepared to give your life ultimately to defend Sweden's freedom and democracy. Mr President, I would like to Swedish politicians are today more interested in winning elections than in taking responsibility for basic security foundations in society. Today we see a defence force that is a waste of its former self. We see a welfare state crawling. However, there is an alternative in Swedish politics which is that the responsibility that needs to re-establish the secure folk home that we once lived in. A safe Swedish folk home requires a strong defence – this in order for us to be able to defend the values that the core of the folk home stands for, something that a single party is prepared to take responsibility for. Now I choose to comment on a few things. Allan Widman mentioned that we must tokrust. Yes, you were involved in tow-equipped the Swedish defense. Where's your credibility when you say you want to tokrust up? Your so-called bets are hardly something you could call tokrusta. It is certainly a step in the right direction, but it is absolutely not crazy armament. The question again is: Why did the former bourgeois government disarm the defense? Was it because of naivety? Or was it because it was so keen to join NATO that it was equipped to use it as an argument? I'd be happy to hear from Allan Widman. Then I have a short pass to Miljöpartiet and Anders Schröder. We are discussing Category 6 today and not migration policies or conspiracy theories. I have a question about power surgeries. Not so long ago, your pa rti represented a line with a non-violent defense. The question that you and your party must ask yourselves is whether you did not run the business of Vladimir Putin when you had that opinion and helped relativise the threat that actually occurred in the Baltic Sea.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-934	Mr President, I would like to Like Jeff Ahl, I am also an officer and have the task of defending this country to the last man and now also to the last woman. However, the fact that I am an officer does not make me address other parties in this House and their representatives and say that they should be ashamed. It was a different time of security policy during the 1990s and at the beginning of the 00s than it is now. I am the first to admit that defence policy cannot be pursued on the basis of a very topical threat and a current situation around the world. But I can see that what happened in Sweden largely also happened in every other European country during the so-called strategic timeout. I would also like to inform Jeff Ahl that the Liberals are outside the defence agreement that was reached in June 2015. Whatever the case, my party is prepared, during the current period of defence decision-making, to raise 14 billion more than what lies in the so-called defence settlement. Furthermore, we believe that until 2026 we must get back to a level, Mr President, which is in parity with what was in force 18 years ago, namely 2.0% of GDP. I have never ever used NATO as an argument to dismantle Swedish defence. Of course, if you are a member of NATO, you must have your own independent defence capability, both to contribute to the collective and to be able to initially defend the country.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-939	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear that Allan Widman is also prepared to defend Sweden. Of course, I have no doubt about that. It surprises me, however, that you, Allan Widman, refer to the situation then. In 2008, Georgia was invaded. How did you miss it? This, if anything, is imperialism. It doesn't matter if the neighbouring country is further away from us geographically, does it? If a neighbouring country of Russia is attacked, is it not proof that they are applying a policy that is directly dangerous to us? Why should we blame other countries? At least I'm not raising my kids to blame. I don't know how you get it together. You can never blame someone else, but you have to stand up for your own decisions all the time. You were standing in the speaker's room talking about tossing. Your proposal doesn't mean a fool's armor. Nor does it mean laying a kind of floor in order to reach 2% within a reasonable time. We know that, because we have been counting on this ourselves. And that is why we are investing considerably more than the Liberals do. We want to achieve just 2%. As the Liberals continue to under-dimension the defence, it is important to read the document that I hold in my hand, especially given that you do not want to invest anything in civil defence. Although we are lucky enough to get a Russian attacker to stop something, to fail something, after 12 days we will still run out of fuel, ammunition, food and so on – according to a report from the Royal Academy of War Sciences. How come you're missing this total defense picture? We have been discussing this issue for some time. Why is it that the People's Party does not take responsibility for the whole?
i-b136d9c000f52d16-945	Mr President, I would like to After the Georgia War in August 2008, the People's Party then worked for two things in the current defence decision. One was to set up a unit reserve of four additional battalions in order to maintain the unit-specific equipment that would otherwise have been decommissioned. The second thing we worked for was for a tank company to be pre-stored on Gotland. This tank company was as late as a few days ago out practicing on Tofta's shooting field and should now form a fairly important part of the defence of the island, Mr President. It would be strange to blame someone else. I can only say, Jeff Ahl, that when we look at defence expenditure and the numbering of defence forces in Europe, developments have been roughly parallel to developments in Sweden. This doesn't mean I'm blaming someone else. Of course, as has been pointed out, we will take our responsibility. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats seem to have missed the fact that the Liberals have also added 4 billion more to the defence budget this year in the autumn budget. Why did we do this? Yes, we did so that we could keep the C/ D aircraft that Sweden has today and which are still largely unexploited. The last aircraft delivered came to the Swedish Armed Forces just a year ago, in November 2015, and has barely flown at all. Now that we want to save these C/ D aircraft to admit a larger air force in a troubled time, what do the Swedish Democrats do? Well, they give a mandate to the government to sell the fighter aircraft, even though it is material that the Armed Forces need. I've been lectured by Jeff Ahl, but I'm not going to answer the lecture. But I think this is a particularly strange behaviour, Mr President.
i-b136d9c000f52d16-949	Mr President, I would like to I think Allan Widman is here to lecture me on our decision on the C/D plan. However, we received new information, carried out a new analysis and therefore made a new decision. The question is why Allan Widman, for his part, wants to make it more difficult for the acquisition of Gripen E-planes. This is quite interesting. Perhaps it has something to do with the NATO vigour? You might want to buy another plane, what do I know? That may be the case. However, it would be nice if, above all, on the bourgeois side, we read a few more reports and other things that indicate that it is possible to rebuild one's own ability that can withstand an attack of great power. The reports also point out that, regardless of whether we cooperate with others with the defence that we have or with the defence that Allan Widman wants, we will still be under extreme pressure, and our defence will not be sufficient. Why deny the facts? You further claim that you don't blame others. But why do you mention others? It's completely irrelevant. We should not compare ourselves with anyone else, but we can only take responsibility for our own decisions. And you have been involved in making these decisions. You have also been involved in equipping the Swedish defence. Saving a single tank company doesn't make any difference. You'll still have to stand for the politics you've been pursuing. I am not part of the club that among the others seems to be a thing to belong to. I'll tell you the truth. You'll have to take responsibility for the politics that you stand for, and I'll take responsibility for mine. I stand for a policy that actually makes a difference.
