i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-1	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures the government is now prepared to take to establish an adjacent zone as soon as possible. The marine border investigation report Borders in the sea, SOU 2015:10, was sent out for consultation immediately after it had been handed over to me in spring 2015. Preparation of the investigation's proposals and referrals are ongoing within the Government Office. However, the introduction of an adjacent zone has proved to be significantly more complex by law than originally foreseen in the study's proposal. The preparatory work has therefore taken longer than I anticipated in my previous answers. The government's attitude towards the introduction of an adjacent zone outside Sweden's maritime territory has not changed in any way. It is the Government's intention to make a decision on a Council referral in spring 2017. After that, work on a bill to the Riksdag will continue. The report of the maritime border investigation proposes the establishment of an adjacent zone outside Sweden's maritime territory. However, the report also proposes an updated and more precise border for Sweden's maritime territory. This proposal, as well as the proposal for external demarcation lines for the new neighbouring zone, is based on extensive measurements and calculations along the entire Swedish coast of where and how baselines may be drawn in accordance with the provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. The measurements and calculations are made within the framework of the investigation and have resulted in long lists of geographical coordinates indicating the positions of the lines as accurately as modern technology allows. The proposed proposal is intended to propose a new law on Sweden's maritime territory and maritime zones and a new law establishing Sweden's neighbouring zone. The planned proposal is also intended to contain geographical coordinates of the outer boundary lines of the continental shelf and of the economic zone of Sweden. These lines have already been established in existing agreements with neighbouring states, so no changes are proposed. The position of the lines is indicated with uniform coordinates in the same way as the boundary of the maritime territory and the outer boundary lines of the adjacent zone. The new legislation that the government intends to propose has the great advantage that the maritime territory border and the economic zone with the new neighbouring zone will be available in digital form. That has not been the case so far.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the answer to my interpellation. I have tried time and again in this House since 2008 to raise the issue of an adjacent zone, both through interpellations and simple issues as well as motions. After all, in 2011 an investigation into the Law of the Sea was established, which worked until February 2015. The reason why the investigation period was so long was that due to the land increase in Sweden it proved necessary to measure whether the so-called baselines, which are the very starting point both for measurement of sea territory and for measurement of an adjacent zone. In February 2015, the investigation was in any case completed, and in May of the same year I had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the establishment of an adjacent zone. An adjacent zone may be described as an additional zone outside the maritime territory which reaches a maximum width of 24 nautical miles from baseline. In the debate last May, the Minister for Foreign Affairs replied that the government would establish this neighbouring zone as soon as it was legally possible. In the debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also considered that at the turn of the year 2015/ 16, a bill would be able to arrive at the Riksdag. I did not find any proposal for neighbouring zones in the bill list for the last parliamentary year and not for this parliamentary year. That is why I have now asked the question again. Now the government says that we will be able to look forward to a legislative referral in spring 2017, i.e. in just over six months. With such a timetable, the establishment of this zone does not appear to be possible until 1 January 2018 at the earliest. Then the question is: Does time matter in this case? My firm answer is yes. We now have a deteriorating world situation that deteriorates week by week. Some time ago, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said that perhaps it could be good to have free spaces, between Russia and the West. Mr President, I would like to I am not one of those who believe in this. On the contrary, in a time of tension and a deterioration of the world environment, control and supervision are needed and no free spaces are needed either in the Baltic Sea or in other areas. Time is also important because activities on the Baltic Sea are going on more or less continuously. I know that the Government Office is currently preparing an application for the extension of additional gas pipelines in the Baltic Sea, and the Government has expressed concern about this. At the same time, it is estimated that there may not be much potential to hinder this activity. In this context, it is important if we do not have time to establish the neighbouring zone in time for the activities now planned. Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that it was much more complicated by law than she anticipated. Then my question, Mr President, is: in what way is it complicated? Is it about resources in the Government Office, or is it due to a legal problem? In that case, I'd like to have it investigated.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-17	Mr President, I would like to I think I have to start by taking out Allan Widman's delusion that this could affect Nord Stream 2. It's not like that. It is the Convention on the Law of the Sea that governs how we should act. In addition, of course, we have security policy interests. The Convention on the Law of the Sea gives countries the right, for example, to lay out cables and installations on the seabed or on the seabed. This is not realistic, but we have to deal with this issue on other possible routes, as we do with respect for international law and in accordance with our political objectives, such as the Energy Union. We must operate through the European Union, and we must ensure that our own security interests are protected. But we shouldn't think that this would affect Nord Stream 2. I think you have to make that clear from the start. This is complicated matter. It is very technical, and I wonder if those who listen have understood the little that we have said so far, and I think Allan has brought with him the investigation. The fact that it has taken many years shows that it has legal implications that have taken longer. We have no other ambition but share the desire to achieve this. Our message now, however, is that we link the various work done with sea borders and update the Swedish legislation on maritime borders. This is what's going on. These two issues are closely linked. As Allan Widman said, Sweden's maritime territory is allowed to extend a maximum of 12 nautical miles outside the baselines. The adjacent zone shall connect directly to this, and then extend no more than 24 nautical miles from the same baselines. My starting point and the government's starting point is that we should use as much as possible the possibility of establishing an adjacent zone extending 24 nautical miles from the baselines. However, this is not possible along the entire coast of Sweden. Sea areas are not large enough everywhere. In some areas there is no space at all for a Swedish demarcation zone, for example in the Öresund and the Åland Sea. There, Swedish territory borders directly with Danish and Finnish territory. The Swedish maritime territory is therefore bounded there by the national border with Denmark and the national border with Finland. Even in Kvarken there is no space for an adjacent zone. So there are a number of facts that need to be taken into account. For this reason, the Swedish neighbouring zone cannot be designed as a coherent area, and therefore the investigation proposes that there should be four separate areas. There's nothing strange about that. The neighbouring zone is located in international waters and within Sweden's economic zone. Our economic zone also consists of four separate areas outside the maritime territory. What the lawyers have told us is that a great deal of legal work remains to be done because of this. In addition, there will eventually be digitalisation.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-25	Mr President, I would like to If anyone thought that I was marketing the idea that an adjacent zone would in any way change the rules of the Council of the Sea Court regarding, for example, the laying of gas pipelines in international waters, I apologise. That was not my intention. I know that this is not in a position to stop this. In my opinion, our ability to stop the currently planned gas pipeline based on the rules of the Sea Court Commission is rather limited. I understand that this is also the government's assessment. If you can't stop this, the question arises what you're doing. Yes, we will put forward proposals that not only will we have the opportunity but also the opportunity to be present in the waters where the work is going on. In addition, control and certain Swedish state sovereignty can be exercised. In this way, we can at least effectively ensure that the uncertainty associated with these jobs is reduced. Mr President, I would like to As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, I have with me the report of the inquiry, Borders in the sea. This 900-page brick is a solid piece of work done by the Court of Appeal man Magnus Göransson. In the Committee on Defence, we have received presentations on the investigation. It is correct, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says: there are plenty of coordinates, side up and side down. The baselines around the entire coast of Sweden were remeasured, which is generally also very good as this has not been done in 40 years. However, I am not entirely satisfied with the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to my question as to what it is specifically that has become more difficult by law. Is there anything that was not anticipated from the start of the investigation? Have there been any new circumstances? I would be glad if the Foreign Minister could explain in detail what the problem is. Is this about resources or administrative complications? And why has the government not foreseen this until now, soon a year and a half after the investigation made its proposals?
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-29	Mr President, I would like to The provisions of the Law of the Sea Commission concerning the right to take action within its neighbouring zone do not mean that Sweden would have any form of sovereignty over the sea areas covered by the Swedish neighbouring zone. It will be located in international waters within Sweden's economic zone. On the other hand, an adjacent zone may provide more opportunities to protect, for example, ancient monuments and cultural objects located on the seabed within the zone. You can also protect other objects on the seabed, which is valuable not least in view of wrecks found in, for example, the Baltic Sea. I think we need to clarify two fundamental issues. The first is that we cannot hope that this change means that we can stop Nord Stream 2, as Allan Widman also admitted. Nor does it provide us with such an instrument. We shall continue to work on this issue, and we are also doing so very actively, particularly through the European Union. Because we believe that the EU and other countries that will become buyers of Russian gas are the most important to influence. In this wider context, Sweden will have a more limited role. We must be quite clear about this, because it crosses our economic zone and not as in other cases where countries can influence the draw in a completely different way. We must do everything we can to protect our security interests. That work is in full swing. The second question I want to clarify is whether we should implicitly have an interest in actively delaying the work in some way. That is definitely not the case. It is simply a matter of more work on these proposals. You may have underestimated how much it actually means. However, I cannot answer all the details and how exactly to work in purely legal terms. This is the information we have received, and we will, of course, ensure that this is handled in the best way and that it is sent out with a legislative referral as soon as everything is done. I have no reason to doubt our experts, who say that more legislative work is needed than was originally thought. We will do it properly now that it is implemented after 40 years. Then maybe it'll take a few extra months to get it right too. Then, as I said, digitalization remains to have it in a modern form.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-35	Mr President, I would like to I am the first to wish the government good luck in its ability to examine restrictively the application submitted in September for another gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea. I note, however, that, when an initiative was taken based primarily on security policy considerations some time ago, the government chose not to sign this initiative. But, as I said, I wish happiness and prosperity, and I wish nothing more than the possibility of stopping this project, which has a wide range of defence and security policy implications. This applies not least to increased European dependence on Russian gas. Then I would like to correct the Minister for Foreign Affairs: an adjacent zone means a certain sovereignty for Sweden. Against ships entering and leaving our maritime territory, we can intervene with customs, taxes, health and – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs did – with regard to archaeological and historical findings. We can exercise jurisdiction in an adjacent zone. As we know, this gas pipeline will largely be built with the support of fixed support points along the Swedish coasts. This means that we will have extensive inbound and outbound traffic. Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that she thinks it is simply a matter of more work. But it is the foreign minister's own department that is doing this work. My questions remain: what specifically has caused this to be delayed? And why has the government not been able to anticipate this until a year and a half after the investigation has given up its report?
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-40	Mr President, I would like to I have no other answer to that than that it is technically more complicated than was originally thought. You can see that it takes longer, and then it should be done properly, as we intend to do. We will come back as soon as we can with a legislative referral to implement this proposal.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-41	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Andersson for the interpellation. He has asked me what measures I and the government propose to protect women in Sweden from honour repression and violence. One background to the issue is regular media reporting on violence against women who are not considered to be living according to tradition. Before answering the question about the government's action against honour-related violence and repression, I would like to begin by reminding Erik Andersson of the gender equality policy objective that a united parliament endorsed in 2006 and which is about women and men having the same power to shape society and their own lives. The goal means that the government can and must do several things at the same time, namely both measures aimed at strengthening women's power in various social functions and measures aimed at giving women power over their own life and their own body. Proposals within the framework of the gender equality policy objective of an equal distribution of power and influence do not mean that the government should reduce or be passive in matters of men's violence against women, including violence in close relations and honour-related violence and repression. It's the other way around. Men's violence against women, in particular honour-related violence and repression, is one of the ultimate manifestations of gender inequality and is therefore a high priority in gender equality policy. In a few weeks' time, the Government's letter with a description of the orientation and governance of gender equality policy will be submitted to the Riksdag. The letter includes a national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. The strategy, which describes objectives and focus over ten years, also includes a programme of concrete measures to be implemented on a broad front and with the involvement of a wide range of societal functions between 2017 and 2020. This includes as a central and well-integrated part measures to prevent and combat honour-related repression. Today, I am not in a position to inform you of the details of this letter, which we are planning to present in November, but I can assure Erik Andersson that efforts to combat honour-related violence and repression have a prominent place in the national strategy to prevent and combat violence against women by men.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-45	Mr President, I would like to I feel that the Government is not giving me a real answer. It's a bit of a wait-and-see thing; we'll wait for the government's letter. Well enough – we all support the gender equality policy objectives that have been adopted here in Parliament. But there are things that are happening right now, and that is where we need to take a strong stance, I think. Many women are suffering in our country today. Mr President, I would like to I can tell the Government that there is no honor in honour violence, which only limits people's ability to live as they please. Both boys and girls are limited. Boys are supposed to keep an eye on their sisters. Women are forced to marry people they do not want to marry, or to dress in a way that suits the norm or culture. This needs to be taken into account and discussed more. It is not a beautiful picture that is painted in Sweden, a country where we in itself have come very far with gender equality but where much remains to be done. Women can be beaten because they don't live according to tradition. There are women in asylum homes who are not allowed to go out cycling because it is contrary to a culture or a norm. It's totally reprehensible. It is unacceptable that women who come to a country like Sweden should not live as they want and in accordance with the standards and rules that apply here. It's oppression, and it's illegal. Thousands of people in our country live under threat from their relatives because of the culture of honor. In honour thinking, the family's reputation and reputation are the focus. It's based on notions of innocence and chastity. It may involve restrictions on clothing choices, by whom one may associate, on educational opportunities, on whom one may marry, and even on the right to divorce. During the alliance government, support for people exposed to honour-related violence was improved. In some respects, legislation was also tightened up. But, of course, more needs to be done by society. We must take a firm stance and act against these crimes. The Moderates believe there is a need to map out the extent of honor-related crime. The judiciary must be given the tools needed to protect the victims. We also believe that there is a need to review legislation in order to combat honour-related crimes and increase prosecution.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-51	Do you receive education in the Swedish values and standards that apply? We from the Moderates have proposed a reinforced social orientation for new arrivals. We believe it is obvious that women and men in Sweden should have the same rights. It is love that should decide who to marry, not other rules or poor and outdated values. We can never accept that Swedish law does not apply in Sweden. Many who come to Sweden come from a country where the view of gender equality is different from what we are used to. It is therefore important to provide the education that social orientation entails. We believe that the government should give priority to this.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-52	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Andersson. We share much of the background of the problems. This is a very big social issue. When I have prepared the strategy that we are going to put forward, I have spent a lot of time talking to representatives of women and girls and organisations representing them. I am concerned that many of them give a picture of women's and girls' opportunities to live their lives as they want to be restricted, for example in certain residential areas. It can be a question of what happens in relationships or families, but also outdoors. We take this very seriously. That is why, as I said, we are presenting a strategy on violence against women. These include issues related to honour. We have already announced that we will review the legislation on child marriage. It is relatively new, but it needs to be reviewed again, we believe. We also of course already have an organized work led by the county boards, especially the county administrative board in Östergötland, which in turn provides support to various authorities, such as social services. Social services have a general mission to work against violence against women but also to support, for example, unaccompanied minors in the situation they find themselves in. A child claimed to be married is by definition an unaccompanied minor. It is very important to take these issues seriously, see the girls in their vulnerability and see their needs. It can also be about boys and LGBT people. We have also announced that we want to set up a centre of knowledge on unaccompanied minors. Even within this framework, we need to look at these issues. When I announced that we should present an equality letter and a strategy on violence against women, I also said that we should set up an equality authority. If I understand your interpellation correctly, you are critical of it, Erik Andersson. In addition, you had fellow party members who used to laugh at this in the Riksdag. Maybe you laughed too? Perhaps you have not really read about what this authority should do and why it has been set up. The Alliance government worked against violence against women in the framework of its gender equality policy. More than SEK 2 billion was allocated to gender equality policy, of which about half to the work against violence against women – 1.2 billion if I do not remember wrong. But in the reviews that have been made, including by the Swedish National Audit Office, it is stated that it was ineffective governance. There is a risk that this will not have long-term effects. In fact, one cannot see that violence would have dropped in Sweden over a ten-year period. The reviews say that it is due, among other things, to the lack of governance, the lack of a cohesive force to implement the policy. I am looking for people's lives to change even when it comes to honour-related violence and violence at all. The gender equality agency that your partymates laugh at is there to change reality. That much money must have an effect on people's lives. Those questions are interrelated. Questions about honor-related violence are very important. Strengthening organisations that have knowledge of this and organize women and girls is also incredibly important. We want to move on with that.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-58	Mr President, I would like to The Government says that many of my fellow party members laughed when it came up to the introduction of a gender equality agency. I do not think they are laughing at the very problem of equality, but they are laughing at the fact that you think everything is going to work out just because you are setting up a whole new authority. If I were to be exposed to honour-related violence or other violence at all, the first thing I would not think about would be the need for an equality authority that will help me in this. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office's report said that there has never been so much money spent on gender equality as under the alliance government. Of course, it had some effects, including in the municipalities, who were allowed to apply for money to work on issues such as men's violence against women. I know it had effects. What they concluded was that perhaps there would be a need for a pooling force to review and take advantage of the experience gained so that you can take them further and spread good examples. I do not think that a gender equality authority is needed to do so. The good examples should be found in the municipalities and among the various government agencies that we have. Let's get back to the question that I first asked about the need for strong action against honour-related violence and that no one should get caught up in it. If you look at the social orientation that is being given today, only one third will participate. It's very low. I think there should be a mandatory presence in social orientation, and then everyone should gather. It's not just about the men, it's about men and women getting together. It is as simple as that society rests on a foundation of values for how we should behave against each other. It is a foundation of values that holds our society together. It is about people's equal value and everyone's right to life and freedom. There is, of course, a need for more education. In the absence of social orientation and the emergence of a song-go mentality in the country, parallel societies have emerged where we know that ambulances, fire brigades and police are being opposed. It is not a development in the right direction. We need more cops. There is a need for judicial authorities to take honorary violence seriously. Of course, that is not an easy question. However, it is unacceptable that people should not be allowed to live as they wish. They cannot wait a few weeks for the government's letter on gender equality issues. It takes a survey, which I was into earlier, to see how we can deal with the problem that arises with honour-related violence. But there are also other problems. There are associations in the country that advocate undemocratic values. Many of them will certainly receive subsidies from the state and the municipality. Then you can't wait a few weeks either. I'd like to know, what do we do about it? How are we to ensure that they do not receive those contributions? Is the government prepared to review this? How does the government see that an employee of the passport police does not have to shake hands with a female co-worker or separate men and women in the bathhouses? It is not the right signal to reach an equal country. The examples can surely be made many. The important thing is that we must have a society that values men and women just as much with the same rights and the same opportunities to become exactly what they want.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-64	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I return to the fact that it is a well-known conservative debate trick to laugh at individual gender equality proposals, mock them and reduce them and then say: I am very much in favour of gender equality. We would benefit from serious discussion: what is needed to have an impact in reality? You say you know there are effects. In fact, you also ordered a gender equality investigation. I think that's good. It even has in its heading that an authority is needed to change reality with the money we spend. It was good that the alliance government had over 2 billion to gender equality, but you can't seriously think that it was good that they didn't have an effect in the long term, Erik Andersson? I find it incredibly hard to believe. You're welcome to defend it. There is much evidence that the effect did not occur. For example, we can see that violence against women remains at the same levels as ten years ago, and you were in power for eight years of them. We're reviewing the religions. Speaking of waiting, you did it for the entire eight-year period. You did not review the religions and their role in relation to this. However, I agree with you that it is important, and I look forward to the proposal. In the meantime, of course, we should only use the means to spread democratic values, including equality, and then we must have control mechanisms so that we can see that it works that way now. I also agree with the value of education and training for the general public and, for example, prevention of the role of men and boys in gender equality. It's important for the whole population. It is also important when it comes to new arrivals and unaccompanied minors. That is why I focus on prevention in the strategy against violence against women. We've done far too little of that. This is also shown in the evaluations and studies. We must ensure that oppression does not exist from the outset at all. In that ambition, I think, like you, you need to turn generally to the population and especially to men and boys, at least I think you mean, but also specifically to different groups. That is why we have also initiated an education that can be used in, for example, HVB homes. There, D brings in youth reception online and the youth authority produces a manual so that you can reach HVB homes and unaccompanied young people newcomers with knowledge of sexual and reproductive rights and health, including these issues. What does Swedish legislation look like? How does gender equality work in Sweden? This applies, for example, to the fact that it is forbidden to buy sexual services and what our entire legislation means. Of course, the police and other law enforcement authorities will also work on these issues. We recently assigned a mission to the police to work with sexual and other abuse of children. That is an example of what we are doing now. As I said, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland already has the task of working specifically on this issue. I have also said that when we present the national strategy and it becomes known what the measures are in it, I would like to call for a national collection of all the actors to ensure that everyone takes the matter seriously and will also take the measures contained in the strategy. I have a focus on implementation. I want this policy area to be effective and to use its resources in relation to the people, just like any other policy area.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-74	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes when you hear representatives of parties on the left, it almost feels like equality would be a left-wing issue, but it is not. Like everyone else, we think that equality is an important issue. It is a question of freedom, as I see it, that everyone can develop their life and become exactly what they want without being prevented by any norm or culture. When we talk about the efforts made under the alliance government, I can repeat that there has never been as much effort on gender equality as it was made in those years. It is possible that the current government finds it a bit difficult that the Alliance invested more in gender equality than any Social Democratic government has ever done in memory of manna. Men's violence against women is a problem partly because there is a large number of darkness. Hopefully, more people will report those crimes now in view of the efforts that have been made. However, the creation of a gender equality authority could lead to the risk of shifting all gender issues to the gender equality authority and of the other authorities not working precisely on the gender issue. It's just like the health and safety issues. They must each work at their place of work, and this also applies to gender equality. Everyone must constantly work on equality, every day and every hour. You can't just pass that on to another authority. I believe that the solution is not to set up a new authority to tackle gender equality problems in Sweden. So I think the government is completely wrong there. It takes so much more than an authority. In this case, for example, in the case of new arrivals, training is required, and it is important that it is compulsory and not just offered. We must ensure that men and women go there and take on board the knowledge, standards and rules that apply in Sweden, Mr President.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-79	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Andersson, for this debate! It is indeed an important issue, and I am pleased that our analysis of the problem itself is very much in line. We need to work together on this for the sake of girls, women and other vulnerable people. It is a difficult situation, as Erik Andersson said, but I also think it is a difficult situation that he is critical and believes that you cannot see the effects of the funds. For me it is incomprehensible, because if there is any proposal that I have put forward that is so substantiated by the facts, that is it. This is simply about making equality policy professional as other policy areas. It is, for example, a question of spreading examples. Erik Andersson himself mentioned swimming pools that have divided times and so on. When you see oj gender equality, you ask yourself, "Oh, help, I've found inequality, what am I supposed to do?" For example, with an equality authority, you can see that there are a number of municipalities, organisations and others who have worked with this, not infrequently with common funds, and developed good practices that do not involve splitting up or separating. This is to strengthen gender equality. However, it is not the only measure to work for equality and against honour-related violence. It's never worked like that. Gender equality policy is really about taking political decisions, having political will and having the courage when it is needed, and it has to do so in a variety of areas in order to achieve universal equality. That is why you have to have an authority and also do a lot of things to strengthen the policy area. I look forward to the debate moving forward, and I will stand up on the side of girls and women against honour-related violence.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-85	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Hökmark has asked me what other measures I would like to take to increase female representation both on company boards and in senior management positions. The government wants to increase gender equality throughout society. Equal decision-making gives companies diversity that can increase their competitiveness. In order to drive progress, the government has proposed that at least 40 per cent of the board members of equity companies and state-owned limited companies should be of each sex. The memorandum's proposal provides for a more even distribution of power and influence between women and men in the country's largest company. It has a value in itself. Such a development can also contribute to the selection and recruitment of both board members and managers on the basis of a broader recruitment base in order to take advantage of the skills of both women and men. This will also improve the conditions for women's entrepreneurship in general. In addition to the proposed legislation, the Government is taking a number of measures to improve equality between women and men in working life. These are also relevant for, for example, board representation and senior management positions not covered by the bill. For example, the proportion of women in senior positions increased when the boards of state-owned companies became more equal. Another example is that the government has set up an investigation to review the rules on parental leave and parental insurance. The aim is to identify problems and propose measures to ensure that parental insurance contributes more to gender equality in the labour market than is currently the case, equal parenthood and also continued to contribute to good growing-up conditions for children. Industry shares the government's view that the skills of both sexes must be exploited. I therefore expect that the players in the business sector will continue to work to achieve diversity in the boards and management of companies, thereby increasing the competitiveness of companies.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-91	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. Nevertheless, I am surprised that this reform on quotas for company boards is becoming such an important symbol for the government. If you look at Norway where quotas were introduced in 2006, you cannot see the benefits that you might want to see, because there have been no more women at middle management level or more female CEOs. It hasn't happened in Norway. It is only the obvious thing that has happened: more missions to a small privileged group of women who already have assignments. Therefore, my view is that the government is now investing in professional boards rather than in the many women. There are problems in the labour market, for example in the form of wage differentials, and one reason why it is easy to see is that there are many women in the public sector and many men in the private sector. If you want to do something about this, you should encourage companies in the welfare sector. That is why my question is once again: what does the government think it will achieve by imposing quotas on company boards when it cannot be seen that there will be more female managers at lower levels?
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the interpellant for this discussion! It's important. If women had been assessed according to their skills, we would already have a more equal business environment. It is a fact, and that is also why the business community itself has argued that it is a problem to have such unequal boards in business. This is why the industry itself has decided through the code to achieve equal boards, because it believes that the work on the boards will then be better. There is also research that shows that more equal boards actually work better, not only in the boardroom, and that they also produce more profitable companies, which is exciting. It is also the experience of the state. It feels like this is a new discussion about board representation, but that is not the case. In 2000, the then Social Democratic government took the initiative to set a target of equal boards in the state corporations. It took three years, from 2000 to 2003, to achieve equal state companies. Today we have had a situation for almost ten years with equal boards in the state companies. Then what happened? Last week, new OECD statistics showed that Sweden, among the OECD countries surveyed, was the country that had come the longest in terms of both board representation in the state companies and when looking at the number of CEOs in the state companies. Our experience from the state-owned companies is therefore very clear: When you got equal boards, the boards also started to impose requirements on recruitment processes for senior executives so that you got a wide selection. This has today led Sweden to lead the development of women presidents of state-owned companies as well. According to the latest figure that I have, today 32% of the state-owned companies' CEOs are women, compared to the stock exchange companies where the corresponding figure is 5%. More equal boards have thus had an effect in Sweden. Before this debate, we had another debate on equality. It is a little strange that the Moderates end up on the wrong side every time we discuss gender equality reform. Historically, it has been voting rights, special taxation, parental insurance; with every major reform that has been pushed forward to increase gender equality in Sweden, the Moderates have unfortunately been on the wrong side. And now we are again on the wrong side and say that gender equality is certainly a good thing, but not right now and not so quickly and that it can wait. My question will then be: How long are the Moderates prepared to wait for us to get equal boards and equal management teams in Sweden? Is it not good to take advantage of the skills of the entire population and actually to ensure that women and men have the same chance in society to reach their full potential?
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-101	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am of the opinion that an owner should be allowed to appoint his board. You can look in your company and see what skills you want. There are companies where there are only women on the board. Should you be forced to bring in a man who you don't think is as competent? There is also that question. Then it is that it has been up to you to look at skills. If you really want to look at what is most important for women and their entrepreneurship, you can look at what it looks like in Europe and the countries that beat us with horse lengths and have more female CEOs and more female managers. These are the countries that have more private activities in their welfare. That's it. I cannot understand why women should not be allowed to run businesses on the same terms as men who do so in the industry, in the construction industry, as asphalt workers, electricians or plumbers, and who can do so, and they must make a profit also in order to run their business. I see this as a symbolic issue. I have been to many companies, and there is a lot of work to do in recruiting skilled staff, both women and men, and women are also being raised in companies. With regard to this symbolic act, a unilateral demand for quotas is the most important reform, and I do not think we can see what really matters. It is not only the matter of transparency for private companies in the welfare sector, but what would also help is that RUT services could be expanded. Women who have used RUT most have used the time they have saved to work more. It has thus helped to combine domestic work with own work. I therefore believe that, in terms of modern gender equality work, it must be seen in business that both women and men can develop on their own terms. They should not be divided into different categories, but rather be freed from being divided into categories, and all people regardless of gender or any other division should be given the same opportunities.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-107	Mr President, I would like to As the President knows, the issue of gender equality is an issue that concerns me a lot and one that I am fighting hard for. Basically, it is about us not taking advantage of the resources we have in Sweden. That is the essence of the whole problem. Then you have to look back in history. It's pretty good to do it sometimes to find out why it looks like it does today. In many ways it is about education. Twenty - 30 years ago, women were less educated than men. But this is starting to change, so there are now almost more women who are training. The problem is that we must also attract women to technical training. If you compare the proportion of women who trained 20 to 30 years ago and the proportion of women on boards, you can see that they are quite similar. You want people who have knowledge of a government. Then education is part of it. If you look at education then and education then and what the boards look like, then it is quite similar, and in other words this is an issue that will be resolved the more women educate themselves in order to be able to adapt to the business community as well. We have a feminist government that says they have 32% female CEOs in state companies. It's really terrible. 32%! I would expect this feminist government to say that it had at least 50 percent female CEOs. What are you going to do about it? Isabella Hökmark was into this with RUT. The government says that it wants to increase gender equality in a number of areas. But then you fight the same thing on the other side. The RUT reform has meant that many more women have been able to work more – unfortunately, it is still the case that the vast majority of women are in charge of domestic work, and there one could wish that men would take more responsibility – and that has worsened in the RUT reform. It has also meant that we have had a lot more women entrepreneurs. We need more women entrepreneurs in this country if we are to succeed in achieving gender equality objectives. But being an entrepreneur in Sweden is not easy either. There, everyone is opposed, not just women. So there are many obstacles that the government is putting up against there being more women, and then the solution comes with binding legislation, possibly, on quotas. A new authority should also be set up to monitor all this. That is not the way to tackle the problem. We need to see what the obstacles are to getting more women on boards, for example. It is strange that both the US and Italy and Switzerland have more women leaders – business leaders and managers – than Sweden has. One might wonder why.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-116	Mr President, I would like to This is a very exciting debate. It can really be about almost everything. And that is what it is supposed to do, because this is an important issue of equality. However, if you scrape a little on the surface, how little the Moderates have worked on this issue and for a very short time. You have no historical track record on gender equality in Sweden. You have opposed all major reforms that have actually led to greater equality. With regard to the logic put forward here that women do not train as much as men, women have trained more than men for many decades. It is many decades that this has been the case in Sweden. The explanation model that women have to wait a few more decades, until they have trained even more, to reach executive positions in Sweden is very bad. If we had made the link between education level and management positions in Sweden, women would have gone over men a long time ago. If it were about education, we would not have had 6 percent female CEOs in Swedish stock exchange companies. So it is a bad explanation model. With regard to the RUT system, one tries to find some example of where it has somehow deteriorated. The RUT system has never been bigger than today. It has never been as extensive as it is today. There have never been so many people who have used the RUT system as today. There have never been so many people working in the RUT system as today. I wish men would take more responsibility at home, said this. But how do you do it? What does the research say? Well, the research says that it requires a more equal take-out of parental insurance. Come on, come on, And on which side do the Moderates end up in the discussion of another father month? On the wrong side, again, of course. We know from research that every time we have changed parental insurance and actually made it more equal, it has led to another responsibility at home. The fact that more fathers are at home with children when they are young leads to a different trend in the labour market. More women can make careers and develop in the workplace, but men also have a closer connection with their children if they are at home with them when they are young. That was an example. We can address the wider issue of equal pay. The inexplicable pay gap between men and women is greater in the private sector than in the public sector. I have rarely heard the Moderates talk about more equal wages and what to do. This government has proposed compulsory wage mapping to really make sure that every year we see what wage differences exist on the Swedish labour market and how to do something about them. Can the Moderates in this debate indicate on which side you are going to be in that discussion? Were you for that? No. You want it every three years. There's nothing happening to wages in a year, you mean. There is quite a lot happening, and every year getting an idea of what structural wage differences exist in Sweden means that you can actually bring about changes in real life. We can take the budgets as another example. For eight years, you were in government. I do not think you had a single budget for eight years where women benefited more than men from your proposals – not a single budget for eight years. Look at the budgets we have put in during the time we have had the chance to lay budgets! In every budget we have had such proposals, and together we see that women are the winners of our draft budgets. There is a difference between moderate and social democratic equality policy, and it is not surprising that this discussion too says: wait, it will work out, we are not in such a hurry. I think that most women who are involved in gender equality issues must at some point also be given the same rights to wage development, power and responsibility as men. It's been a very long time, and the state companies have gone ahead.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-125	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. Yes, there is a difference between social democratic and moderate equality policy. And the difference is that your recipe is to control people all the time. That's what you come up with. Politicians should decide how to live and how to choose. Your recipe is always that someone above should decide how the individual's parental insurance is to be distributed. I'm totally against it. I think it's good for the parents to choose for themselves. Rather, we should expand it so that someone else can also share parental insurance. Today, there are also women who do not have the opportunity to stay at home for a very long time. In the end, who are affected? Yes, the children. But you never talk about them in this context. My final question will be: if you believe that quotas contribute to gender equality, why do you not want to contribute to gender equality where gender equality is at its worst? Where is it? Yes, within the large trade unions and their boards. Either you don't think quotaing helps, or you don't care about equality in your own movement.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-128	Mr President, I would like to It is great that you clearly show what you think in a debate. It honors the Government. But I think the Government has missed that what can lead to change is not just about coercion. It is also about values and value shifts in society, it is about good examples and it is about men wanting to be more with their children. That's it. We can't turn a blind eye to that. You can go to your little community and watch. My friends are always with their children. There's nothing weird today. In the past, it may have been strange that a man should be at home with his sick child, but it is no longer. We certainly have a lot to do in this area. But it's not just about coercion. It's about a shift in value in society. The Government can still not get away from the fact that there has never been so much effort on gender equality as under the alliance government. Not a single Social Democratic government has been able to demonstrate more effort on gender equality than the alliance government has been investing in its eight years. Given the roots of the Social Democrats in, for example, the trade union movement, it is almost embarrassing that, for example, Building has 100 percent men on the board. It is embarrassing if you stand for a gender equality policy. LO is even in the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats and is in charge. Yet they cannot set an example when it comes to increasing equality. No, the private companies should first be forced, but not the trade unions. I think that is a terrible thing, Mr President.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-132	Mr President, I would like to Fun with a gender equality policy discussion! The Social Democrats were the first party in Sweden to decide that, without quotas, we should have every other lady's and every other gentleman's on our ballot papers. The first equal government in the world was a Social Democratic-led government. We have worked with gender equality throughout our history. Unfortunately, the Moderates have not. You have opposed every major gender equality policy reform. You have said that should not be governed politically. I'm sure it'll come on its own. I'm sure there's a change being trained. This has not been the case. Why is Sweden the world's most equal country? Because we have dared to implement reforms that give women greater opportunities to develop in the future. You say we're not talking about the children. Why, then, is Sweden the world's best country for children to grow up in? Among other things, because we have done gender equality work that gives women and men the opportunity to combine secular work with being at home with their children when they are young. We have expanded preschool and a public service that provides support for women and men when you have children. It's incredibly important. And we have the world's highest employment rate for women. It's freedom for women. It's about your own money. To be honest, when it comes to gender equality reforms, men were consistently favored over women in your budgets over eight years. You financed some gender equality projects. But if you look at the hard budget, you can see that men always went before women. That's not good enough. Now it will again be in the history books that the Moderates were on the wrong side of this gender equality discussion as well.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-140	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about people. It is about all those who over the past year have called and written letters and who have come here to Parliament. They have filled our email baskets in the hope of giving us a little insight into the situation they have and to help us understand what frustration and anxiety they experience when conditions suddenly change for those in greatest need of other people's support in order to live a normal life. Anyone who can't get dressed without help should still be able to look nice to go on the first date or on the important job interview. Those who cannot move themselves should still be able to feel freedom on the horse's back instead of spending their days trapped in an institution. Someone who can formulate thoughts may need someone else's help for us to hear when that person says: I don't just want to survive--I want to live. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats have not requested today's debate to talk about cheating and crime. If there is anything to debate. We all agree. This is there. It's supposed to be discovered, and you're supposed to be punished for it. But those who depend on personal assistance should not be punished – that is what is happening today. I hope that today we from the government will be informed and acknowledged. I hope that the government recognises that it has contributed to, and continues to contribute to, the fact that today we cannot be sure that those who are entitled to support under the law on support and service will actually get what we have promised them through legislation.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-144	Mr President, I would like to The Act on Support and Service and the Act on Assistance are important reforms of freedom for people's participation and independence. These are essential ambitions in a welfare society that I and the government stand for. Then the law on support and service and the law on assistance must also work better. To this end, the legislations shall be reviewed. For these reasons, we want more accurate and equivalent measures that actually allow for the very involvement in social life that was the intention of the two legislations. We want to strengthen individuals, children's rights perspective and gender equality in these systems. We want long-term sustainable cost development, not least in personal assistance, where the costs over the last ten years have increased significantly without the number of people having increased to the same extent. Several heavy reports – for example, two government investigations from 2012 and 2014, two reports from the Social Security Inspection from 2012 and 2015 as well as an audit from the Swedish Tax Agency from 2012 – show that there are problems with the use of funds within the system for other purposes than assistance and that the profit incentives give reason to drive up the number of hours. According to ISF, there are many companies that make profits every hour. There are over 1 000 companies today in a market where private companies make up about two thirds. There are large amounts of money that could have been used precisely for people who are entitled to support. But some go to other things. To ensure that the funds are used for the right things is a major challenge in this area, but there are others. LSS and the law on assistance are legislations that are complex and are getting old. These are important rights laws. There are precedents. Representatives of the disability movement have repeatedly told me and others that they do not always think that the laws work as intended. That is another reason why the government has set up an investigation to review this. The lack of accuracy in both LSS and the law on assistance is a challenge that is very important to pay attention. We must find good ways to ensure that every individual is entitled to his or her support. When a person does not receive the support to which he or she is entitled, it is a personal crisis situation. It is our responsibility to see every such situation and every human being. The LSS and the assistance allowance are flawed, which we must undeniably overcome. At the same time, it is important to describe the development based on facts. On the one hand, the total number of people taking action under the two systems is increasing LSS and assistance compensation. The number of hours per person continues to increase this year in the area of assistance. On the other hand, there are some measures that are reduced in scope. In this context, I should like to make it clear that the government has not taken any decisions that restrict the individual's right to personal assistance or have proposed any such legislative changes. I have heard some party representatives say that this year more people have lost their assistance than before. It is interesting, because those tasks do not have the responsible authority. What we do know, however, is that there are currently about 300 fewer people in state aid than at the end of the year. Last year, 150 people who had previously received state assistance no longer received it. In the years before, 2013 and 2014, 280 people left. We still don't know what it's gonna be like this year-- nobody knows that. However, we must follow it. I meet people who tell me that they feel that it has become more difficult to get support. I take that very seriously. We need to monitor developments particularly closely right now. I get e-mails and calls. I meet people who believe that the government is cutting both in the state assistance compensation and in the efforts of the LSS. We have not made any such decisions. The meetings that I have also put forward several suggestions on how the systems could be changed and improved. Among other things, I had a recent meeting with the neuroassociations, and yesterday I had a conversation with a mother who has two children with personal assistance. The government will soon have a review on the issue of self-care within assistance, and I see a need for an analysis of the fifth fundamental need. Of course, the state, county councils and municipalities will jointly live up to our commitments under the law. I am concerned about three things. Firstly, the person entitled to assistance or other operations under the LSS shall receive that support. Secondly, we shall get to the over-exploitation that has been shown by several reports, where funds go beyond assistance. Thirdly, I have a great responsibility for taxpayers' money being used for the purpose for which it is intended. I take that responsibility very seriously.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-154	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I talked to Dad Hans, whose daughter has severe brain damage that causes multi-functionality. This requires many health and care visits. They have a daily life in which most of us find it difficult to understand. He said, "That's enough. We cannot have a welfare that fails where the weakest need it at their best. Now the own web design company is closed down. Mother Sanna has been on sick leave during the year, as the strength has not been sufficient. It has cost society more than what has been saved on the assistance hours withdrawn. Mr President, I would like to Each person has different abilities and opportunities to develop. Being born with or with impaired functions means that you need a lot of support from family and relatives, who make the most of the effort, but ultimately also from society. Those with the greatest need should receive the most support. We have been deeply touched by recent descriptions of people who have the same extensive need for action today as yesterday, but who have been told that smaller efforts are what will apply tomorrow. These assessments have not been made on the basis of needs. The Government has carried out its own investigation by changing the conditions in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's regulatory letter last December. It happened before the whole human analysis was complete. If the government and the Government are serious about what has now been said here in the pulpit, the government should do more about it and do more right from the start. We think it is good that the government has set up this investigation, but it is far from sufficient when the government has now messed it up and had the analysis finished before the job is finished. We Moderates therefore present a number of proposals for concrete measures that the government can already take if the needs are put first and if the weakest are given priority. It is a matter of restoring order and order in the welfare. Mr President, I would like to We'll see the human being, not the systems. We can't have a welfare that fails. The shortcomings that exist must be corrected. We will ensure quality and prevent cheating and abuse. Everyone should have the right to a welfare that works when you need it most. Assistance reform aims to create opportunities. It aims to give greater autonomy to those with the most difficult disabilities in order for more people to get to their rights. It is a reform of freedom under responsibility. For families and relatives of people with great needs, it's a lot about being able to cope with family life, being able to work, being able to make a living. The aim of the assistance reform is to enable more people to come to their rights than was the case before this freedom reform came into place. The Moderates are proud of the radical assistance reform carried out by the bourgeois government in 1994. It has been – and still is – crucial in many ways. We want to protect it. Therefore, the purpose and legitimacy of the assistance reform should be ensured in the long term. The principles should be high quality, holistic thinking, transparency and transparency. We therefore propose that the government should already act with zero tolerance against shortcomings. Lack of quality can never be accepted. Those who do not deliver quality should not work with the weakest in our society. We want zero tolerance of cheating, abuse, fraud and crime. Freedom of choice, competition and clear quality requirements lead to better welfare, but without control there is a risk of abuse. We also want to see effective use of taxpayers' common resources. Welfare is not a market. Welfare should be built on diversity that is linked to careful control of common resources and cost development, and it should be done in a legally secure way. Mr President, I would like to There is currently a lack of overall thinking regarding assistance and the various interventions from municipalities, county councils and Försäkringskassan. Tightening one impact means overwhelming and loading another. This puts people at risk because the needs remain. It is time for the government to see the whole human being instead of a system. We can't afford it to go wrong. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates therefore assume that after the debate today, the Government will leave the Riksdag and go back to the Ministry of Social Affairs to write a new, clear assignment to the Social Insurance Agency. Not only should we see an appropriation, but we should review and correct the overall impact of decisions on assistance and efforts – we want to see this made clear. It's about creating a better picture. Individuals, families and relatives are affected by the decisions that are made – you have not succeeded, for example, if an increased burden on parents leads to someone being forced to leave their job and get sick leave. More holistic approach is also central to maintaining long-term legitimacy. Of course, it is also important to review and control the development of costs. It is not good enough to wait until the next regulatory letter. It is also not good enough to wait until autumn 2018, when the government will have completed the investigation. It is time for this government and for the responsible minister, who bears full responsibility for instructions to authorities, to give the Social Insurance Agency a new, clear mandate. When will the Government do this? And which of the measures I have listed so far will the government proceed without delay?
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-172	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the Christian Democrats have initiated today's current debate. We Swedish democrats think that personal assistance and the law on support and service, LSS, is a very important issue to discuss, especially in the light of recent developments and debate on personal assistance and LSS. Almost 20 years ago, the introduction of the LSS was hailed as one of the most important social reforms for a very long time. I would argue that this was, in fact, the most important reform in many decades. We were given a right law in place that would ensure that people with disabilities, who are in need of support and service, receive the necessary help to live a life like others. This is how you can wonder why it didn't come into place even earlier – it should be a matter of course in a welfare society that you take care of people who are in need of extra support. The introduction of the LSS reform and personal assistance was a very important reform of freedom. It meant that individuals with disabilities were given the opportunity to live a life like others. They had the opportunity to study, to work and to participate in leisure activities just like others – they could have a dignified life. It was also an important reform of rights, as the LSS is not a law like everyone else. It's a law of rights. In other words, it is not a dispositive law that can be dismantled by the government, but the rights that are stated there will apply until we in the Swedish Parliament take a different decision. After all, it is about having a quality of life and a dignified life with disabilities, which many of us take for granted. Like I said, it's a law of rights. Therefore, we are concerned that in recent years we have been able to see a number of legal cases that have become a precedent – i.e. guiding – for the Social Insurance Agency's decisions and which limit the right to personal assistance. It is primarily the interpretation of basic needs that has been very restrictive in these legal cases, which has hit many people. It has led to personal tragedies when the right to assistance has either been restricted and withdrawn or withdrawn altogether. Against this background, as a Swedish democrat, I am very concerned about the development, which, unfortunately, can only be seen as a dismantling of personal assistance. We hear other people testify to that. We hear almost daily reports in the media about how this dismantling has hit people. We can read stories from real life where one is more tragic than the other. It is a matter of death as a result of the suspension of assistance. These are people with disabilities who cannot get the support they need and whose parents are forced to take over the weight of their responsibilities. It is about people who are being probed because it is not considered a basic need to get the daily nutrition. The list of disappointing reports can be made long. You really get touched at the heart of these stories, which come directly from reality. Mr President, I would like to That is why today's debate is very important. Those of us who want to protect personal assistance have a chance to hold the government accountable for what is really happening today. Let me explain what I think is the problem with the government's current position. Laws should be interpreted in the light of the preparatory work that has prompted them, and the original intentions should be clearly stated there. What has now happened, instead, is that a number of legal cases have been brought in which lawyers have interpreted what is to be included in what we call the law of rights. This has led to restrictions on the rights of the group of persons who need personal assistance, for example, which was not the intention of the LSS. Nor can it be worthy of the rule of law and democracy that what we politicians – or in this case our predecessors – have decided has been allowed to be curtailed by the decisions of lawyers and officials. Then it is our responsibility, as politicians, to step in and make sure that we do it again and do it right. This is about avoiding erosion of the original intentions of the law and ensuring that the individual is guaranteed what he is entitled to. It must also work in practice. Since I entered Parliament, I have been exercising on a review of the assessments of fundamental needs. I've been exercising for a review of the two-year trials. I've been re-exercising a coordinator to make it easier for the next of kin. But every time, the answer has been that there's an investigation going on. Now we have an investigation in progress. But the focus in it, in my opinion, is slightly wrong. We are therefore in favour of the government initiating a review in the form of an investigation. But the focus should not be on reducing costs, but on how we can maintain the purpose of the law that we once made. Given the legal cases that show that there are clearly uncertainties and doubts as to how the law is to be interpreted, it would be useful if the investigation could help to develop a basis for what clearer legislation could look like. We are therefore open to an attempt by law to define what the basic needs really mean, rather than leaving it to others to interpret it. We cannot legislate with clear intentions and then do not act when they are not maintained, but the policy must be clear and take back its power on this issue if we really are serious. Therefore, it will be interesting to see if Minister Åsa Regnér really takes the initiative to clarify this.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-185	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the LSS is a reform of freedom, I think most people can agree. The purpose of being able to live their lives like others, something that really should be self-evident, was revolutionary. Since its inception, the law has had a huge impact on thousands of people with disabilities. LSS provides early intervention, in addition to personal assistance such as escort service, reliever service, accommodation with special service and short-term stay. These efforts are important in order to make it possible to live like others, but I do not need to say that to those of you who listen to the debate. I would also like to agree with Minister Åsa that the LSS reform must be safeguarded. On behalf of the Green Party, we are very concerned about the reform. We are also pleased with the special Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that came a number of years ago. It was an important drag aid. We in the Green Party are very concerned that the reform works properly. The concerns of some people should be taken very seriously. However, here in my first speech I will dwell on what concerns the framework for reform. In order to protect the LSS reform in the long term, it is important that the tax funds are used properly. When reviewing the Social Security Inspection in 2012, they underlined that private organisers made significant profits and rapidly expanded their market share. So it is money that is not used for personal assistance, but it is tax money that is being removed from the system. It is not sustainable to protect the reform. The Green Party has nothing against private operators, but the tax funds should of course be used for what they are intended for. The fact that there are rogue companies, and in some cases organised crime, in the industry is very serious. It is particularly serious when individuals are exploited and in no way receive the assistance or support they should have. According to Försäkringskassan's calculations, around 10 percent of the payments may be incorrect, and a large part is suspected of going to organised crime. There is a lot of money leaking to go to personal assistance. So here we are not talking about private individuals – it is a limited problem – but about rogue companies and purely criminal acts. It has also been shown that part of the remuneration of the timschablon can be used for advertising, marketing and sponsorship, which is not the purpose of the timschablon's remuneration to be used for personal assistance. The system of a fixed stencil, in principle equal for all the performers and users, is too blunt, as we see it. Since the needs are different, there may be reasons not to have one and the same level. The design of the timschablon is also considered to be an important reason for the large profit withdrawals that I described earlier. For this reason, it is a good idea to review the possibility of having several different timschablons. The government has recently set up an investigation to review the entire LSS reform. The previous government has also seen rapid cost developments. If the government does not tackle the current errors in the system, it will be difficult in the long term to safeguard the LSS reform, which would be very unfortunate. To be dependent on other people's assessments, most people don't want to. It is also the essence behind the LSS that you should have the right to efforts. Of course, it is understandable that many people are concerned about what they perceive as signals. For the government, however, the focus is precisely on safeguarding the reform. Let me also say something about the reductions in so-called self-care, such as assistance for probe feeding. This is a recent issue. The decision has been taken by Försäkringskassan and is a direct consequence of a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court. After the judgment, the Social Insurance Agency makes the assessment that a nursing intervention can never be a basic need, whether in the form of health care or self-care, but that a nursing intervention in the form of self-care can be included in the assessment of other personal needs unless otherwise provided. The decision can hit many families hard. The Government has already commissioned the Social Security Inspection to investigate this and propose a solution, as they will shortly do. Hopefully, in the meantime, families have been able to have their needs investigated in accordance with the Social Services Act instead. But we fully understand that as a parent, we feel that it just has to work.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-197	Mr President, I would like to As water droplets that meet cheek to cheek before they float together and converse through the various unique body languages that signal between the strokes of hearts and provoke an equal flow of joy. This is taken from a poem by Lena Eldståhl. With her poem, she wants to show the importance of the sense of context and participation, and that also applies to those who cannot put their own words into this. This can only be achieved if everyone can be and can participate and participate, as Article 30 of the UN Convention on Human Rights states. Lena needs assistance herself. At the same time, she is an active participant in Share Music's activities, where culture and artistic expression give words and movement to people with functional variations. It is a society where everyone can take place, be seen and operate. But Lena's participation is now threatened. She has been told that her assistance hours will be greatly reduced – this despite the fact that nothing has materially changed in her disability. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party defends the assistance. The Center Party defends the individual's freedom of choice and sees that the possibility of employment and education are important parts of being able to participate and actively participate in our society. A prerequisite for freedom of choice is to be able to control the assistance itself and freely choose the provider. In that case, the various operators must also have reasonable conditions for their work. Involvement is important for the development of the individual, and it is important for the development of our society. We can't afford to put individuals outside. In order to be a part of it, you need to have the conditions for it. Therefore, in the early 1990s, the bourgeois government introduced the LSS Act. Assistance is according to the law personally designed support for those who, due to large and permanent disabilities, need help with things such as their personal hygiene, meals, dressing and communicating with others. It is about basic needs so that in the next step you can be involved and active in society. When we receive reports today that assistance has been withdrawn for basic needs, such as breathing, and that parents and relatives are expected to take greater responsibility instead, we are quite far from the intention of the law to promote equality in living conditions and full participation in society with the aim of enabling the individual to live like others. For many, effective assistance is a prerequisite for being able to participate in society. Without the assistance, for example, Lena cannot be part of Share Music's network team. It is a loss for Lena who then no longer has the opportunity to live like others. At the same time, it is an even greater loss to our society, which does not get the opportunity to develop and be enriched by Lena's and her colleagues' knowledge, experiences and ideas. In the Center Party we are convinced that one step towards full participation is to be able to make a living through our own work. It should therefore be easy to hire a disabled person. We also want to increase social enterprise and make it easier for people with disabilities to start a business. It must also be easier for people with disabilities to study. Today, it is not self-evident that those who have attended special education will have the opportunity to continue their studies after high school. Universities and universities, as well as universities of applied sciences, are, with a few very few exceptions, no possible alternative, and the exceptions often have the form of one of the projects for a limited period of time. The Center Party has therefore exercised in the Riksdag that more opportunities need to be created for post-secondary education for people with intellectual disabilities. In the Center Party, we are clear that LSS legislation should continue to be a right law. We are also open to entering even more clearly into the law, if necessary. Everyone should have the opportunity to influence their own situation. If you have a disability, it is important that the help and support you receive is adapted to the individual's needs. It is therefore necessary to increase the scope for determining the content of support, assistance and service. Mr President, I would like to The centre party's starting point is that all people can grow and want to support themselves and be fully involved in society. It is therefore self-evident for the Center Party to safeguard assistance and also freedom of choice for those in need of assistance. The investments made by society in the assistance should be used where the needs are. Assistance is an investment both in human capital and in society at large. It's not wrong to review the assistance and the LSS. Reviews need to be constantly carried out, as in all other policy areas. But the starting point for government parties has been to review costs and not how assistance can be improved and strengthened. The Center Party considers that to be the wrong entry point. Instead, the purpose of the investigation should be to look at how we can make the assistance match even better with the individual's needs and how the freedom of choice for the individual can be safeguarded – all in order to achieve the goal of the individual being able to live like others and be part of society and social development.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-214	Mr President, I would like to What we are debating right now is about you and me and about your and my fundamental rights and freedoms. What we are talking about today is about what society we want and what opportunities we should all have to live our lives and not just exist. Apparently, the LSS affects only a small part of the population. They may be few in number, but basically this concerns all of us. LSS is a freedom reform worthy of the name and an indispensable part of our social safety net. It is an insurance policy for all those who have had their lives ruined or who will have it in the future. None of us are free from the whims of life. None of us know what's going to happen tomorrow. LSS is a guarantor of everyone's right to live our lives, be citizens, be able to participate in society on equal terms no matter what turn life takes and be able to get the right help when we need it. LSS is not a benefit but a vital insurance policy – an insurance policy that is now under attack. We should all be well aware that each of the tragic fates we have read about, met or heard about here today could have been d itt or mine. It could one day be about me. Every time a person does not get what he is entitled to, it is everyone's security that is rocked. When we in the Left Party see such a central part of society being attacked, we cannot just stand by and watch. For us in the Left Party, it is a matter of course to stand up for the LSS as the law of freedom and rights it is. We really want a society that works for everyone and not just for a few. We want a society where everyone can feel safe and where civil rights are protected. But that also means that we are obliged to act when the legislation is under threat, and it is now. Ladies and gentlemen! In the regulation letter for 2016, the Government called on the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to contribute to breaking the development of the number of hours within the assistance allowance. In the case of a law governing the individual needs of persons, this call is a direct threat to the law. Apart from the fact that this can have terrible consequences for the people affected, it is such a far-reaching restriction that there is an imminent risk that it is impossible to do so without affecting the individual's individual needs test. So we have a government that risks bypassing the legislator's intention and thus transcending the legislation in force – in addition, completely without there being popularly-based decisions to do so. It's really strong. That is why we chose to initiate a committee initiative in which we gave the Social Affairs Committee the opportunity to instruct the government to delete the wording of the regulation letter. It was an opportunity for all parties in Parliament to show that they are serious when they say that they are protecting the LSS. It was an opportunity to safeguard everyone's safety. Yesterday we had the chance to slow down the devastating development we are witnessing. But today we know that for the Moderates and for the government it was not important, because they chose to vote down our initiative. Yes, the Moderates chose to vote down our initiative. Today we know that the right party KD cares more about the rights of disabled people than the government does. This pisses me off and makes me seriously question whether the government and the Moderates are really protecting the LSS. It makes me wonder what the government really has in mind when they take their decision. Speaking of the government, from the Green Party, it's frighteningly quiet. I have read somewhere that you believe that the LSS must become clearer so that the intention, that is, that everyone should have the opportunity to participate fully in society, is not dribbled away. But that is exactly what we are witnessing now. That is why I really wonder: what is the Green Party really on this issue?
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-226	Mr President, I would like to Leo is five years old. He's got a severe brain injury. He can't sit. He can't stand. He can't keep his own head up. He is retarded and has a limited understanding of his surroundings. Like all kids, Leo likes to sit in his arms. He likes to listen to music and be on walks. But Leos's motor skills aren't working. He's being probed because he can't eat on his own. He can't show where he's in pain, and he can't talk. He has epilepsy and breathing problems. He needs constant supervision and help. The adults – his parents – cannot leave him alone even for a few minutes. Leo needs assistance every hour of the day. This is what Leos's mother Elin told us. Now Leo has been informed by Försäkringskassan that from help around the clock the hours will be reduced to zero. That's a first word. His parents are, of course, desperate. What's about to happen is a disaster. The mother says that the help Leo has today is vital both for him and for them as a family. The parents have now put Leo in line for a nursing home, because if the decision is made, Leo will not be able to stay at home. Moving Leo to a nursing home is moving care for the disabled back 40 years. In the past, children were taken from their parents and put in nursing homes. What happens then – and that is perhaps part of the background to the government's decision – is that the cost is passed over from the Social Insurance Agency to the municipalities. This is the result of moving to a nursing home. It is possible that the Government's directive to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will have precisely the consequence that more people will end up in care homes and have less opportunities for life. The Social Insurance Agency lowers the costs for the state, and the costs arise elsewhere. Mr President, I would like to The LSS reform, which gives people with difficult function's obstacles the right to personal assistance, was carried out in 1994 on the initiative of my party and my predecessor Bengt Westerberg, if then Åsa Regnér had the role of Minister of Social Affairs. The LSS reform means participation and independence for people. It is the largest freedom reform ever carried out in our country for people with disabilities. It has given society's most vulnerable – our seriously ill children – a freedom that they did not have before. Leo is one of these children. In the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan Åsa Regnér clearly states that Försäkringskassan should have a stricter review. It sounds to the government like it's someone else's fault, but it can't waive responsibility for the decision. It is the government that governs the country and gives instructions to Försäkringskassan. If he wanted to, Stefan Löfven would be able to meet with the government this afternoon and withdraw the regulation letter, but he does not want the government to do so. I'm surprised to hear Åsa Regnér's argumentation. I hear the government say that the costs have increased, and they have. When the reform was introduced in the 19th century, it did not see all the needs that existed, but they were clearly underestimated. For this reason, it is more expensive today. More are covered by LSS, including older people, who were not initially covered. We think that's a good thing. Many people have abandoned a life in an institution to a life in a daily life more reminiscent of the life of the rest of us, who do not live in an institution. It was more costly than anticipated, but it was a very large reform of freedom. There's talk of cheating in the business. I am convinced that there are people in society who try to exploit the systems and cheat. It also occurs here, and then you should punish the cheating. Let's not take a blind eye to those who want to steal tax money that they don't have a right to. But punishing everyone for some cheating is not a fair management of people with these needs. Liberals will fight for the reform that we once introduced. We will fight for the disabled who need help and support, and we will not give up until the government has backed up. Let that process be brief, Åsa Regnér, and tell us now from the speaker's chair that you are today withdrawing the directive to Försäkringskassan which means that they should save on assistance hours for vulnerable people! Don't let down society's most vulnerable! Don't let Leo down!
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-238	Mr President, I would like to I said in my introduction that we have not requested this debate to talk about cheating and crime. Yet that is exactly what we hear the government's representatives do. Let us try to sort out some of the claims that have been heard here today. Mr V. has also heard them before in this House from, among others, the Prime Minister and from representatives of the Government in other contexts. The government chooses to paint a picture of the assistance compensation as a reform in which the costs run away without cotrolls. The costs are high; 30 billion is a lot of money. But is it too much? Yes, the government obviously thinks so, because an investigation has been set up to propose savings. We Christian Democrats are far from as sure as that. This does not mean, however, that we are naively and without responsibility and control, that we are allowing expenditure to grow. We have been closely monitoring the evolution of costs. We have heard the Government list a number of investigations. We have sent the authorities to examine, and have examined, in several rounds, what is what. The result so far is that we actually know a great deal, although we have not been able to clarify everything. We know, for example, that the legislation aimed at expanding the group of persons entitled to support explains a very large part of the increase. We know that population growth itself and demographics explain some things. We know that the salaries of everyone who works as a personal assistant have increased over the years, and wage costs are a very large proportion of expenditure. However, while the government is completely entangled in the conviction that what we cannot explain otherwise are unreasonable costs, we Christian Democrats are instead asking ourselves the question: where do we need to look to find the explanations? There are a lot of clues in the investigations that have already been carried out, most recently in Försäkringskassan's own social security report from 2015. It shows that the agency's own experts – those who work daily in making decisions – estimate that part of the increase in the number of hours granted is due to increased knowledge and more accurate decisions. I quote from the report that the handlers say that if the applicants had claimed the same amount for 10 or 20 years, then they would probably have had the same number of hours even then. ..................................................... The report also highlights the significant change in the needs of those receiving assistance compensation today. The proportion of people who receive assistance has increased all the waking time or more. It was about an eighth, and today two out of three are judged to have such a great need among the adults. In new grants there are more that are given the right to double assistance and assistance during daily rest periods. Unfortunately, since many who need assistance do not get healthier, but on the contrary have increased difficulties and therefore increased needs, it should not be difficult to understand that it affects the average number of hours. In recent years, the number of people has not changed significantly, at least not up to this year. However, even if the number is the same, this does not mean that the need is constant, especially if those who lose their right to assistance are those who have received relatively less aid. If the comparison is excused, it is not just a question of changing the conditions in the small football team of the town when you go from playing on seven-man planes to eleven-man planes. Then it's obvious there's more of them. Needs change when you continue to play on 11man planes. There are usually some who quit and new ones that are added. Those who start need bigger football shoes already when they arrive, and those who continue to play will need more equipment and bigger shoes. I hope that no one is offended by the comparison, although it may seem banal. But the principle is the same. The government either does not seem to realize or also does not want to acknowledge that the increase in the number of average hours can be explained in whole or in part by increased needs and that it may even be the case that the needs are even greater but that we fail to meet them. I would like to conclude my speech by putting a very specific question to the Government. Does the government consider it reasonable to cut resources, even if needs increase? This is just a question, and it can be answered by yes or no. What is the government's answer?
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-251	Mr President, I would like to I and the government believe that the intentions of the law are extremely important, and those who are entitled to assistance compensation should also receive it. For this reason, among other things, we want to review the effects of judgments, which several of you have talked about here. We also want to investigate the whole picture and have therefore already set up an investigation that will review much of what you have recommended here as new proposals. If the rule of law provides for a right law, you must have a preliminary ruling stating how the law is to be interpreted in the event of a dispute. These judgments must be complied with. Neither I nor any other politician should go in there and correct them. On the other hand, we can review the effects of them, and we have requested a review. In my opinion, the most controversial verdict came back in 2012. Then why didn't the Alliance do anything about this? Why did you not immediately request a review? It was discussed at the time. The fact that many people who think they need personal assistance think that over the years it has become tougher to get it is a debate that has been going on for a long time. What did you do about it? For quite a long time when the Alliance was in power, there were a lot of reports showing misuse of funds, and they are not small sums. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency estimates that this is as much as up to 10 per cent, and 10 per cent of 30 billion is a lot of money. I would like to say to Emma Henriksson, among others, that the person who was previously Minister for these issues and had my mission, Maria Larsson, wrote the following in 2012: The state inquiry into the costs of assistance compensation has also found that the flat-rate compensation provides opportunities for large profits per hour. According to the study, this gives strong economic incentives to try to increase the number of hours granted. The study also believes that this can largely explain the increase in the number of assistance hours that has been going on since the introduction of the flat-rate allowance in 1997. Maria Larsson continues: Against this background, the Government has decided that the current remuneration for personal assistance should be reviewed. An investigator shall analyse, inter alia, how to reduce over-use opportunities, how to increase the possibilities for monitoring and analysis, and how the real costs of assistance can be better aligned with the amount of compensation without increasing overall costs. Maria Larsson and the alliance government also saw these problems, but nothing was done about them. I am keen to get to grips with the misuse of these funds because I believe that it jeopardises the legitimacy of the reform in the long term. I believe that people's right to action under these laws is important. If we do not ensure that funds are used as intended in welfare, it is difficult in the long term to ask taxpayers to continue to contribute. Then we're really out of our league. I think that assistance is extremely important, but I also think it is incredibly important to have control over the funds. Therefore, we have asked Försäkringskassan to contribute to breaking the development of the number of hours within the assistance allowance. They shall do so through good law enforcement and ensure that the right person receives the right compensation. That's what the regulatory letter says.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-263	Mr President, I would like to It is the government that is responsible, not the alliance government and not the Social Insurance Fund. It is the government and its responsible Minister Åsa Regnér who is very serious here and believes that the Government's instruction to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is of no importance and that it has not mattered what measures the government has taken. That is completely wrong. It can easily be interpreted as an attempt to evade responsibility, which, of course, I do not assume. Take the responsibility of the government and realize that the signals given by the government to state authorities are of great importance and impact on the decisions made about individuals! The Government's responsible Minister Åsa Regnér further says that the government will strengthen both the perspective of children's rights and gender equality within assistance. But your decisions taken so far have led in the opposite direction. The overall quality development of the reform will increase and strengthen for each user – not the other way around. Of course, cost developments will also develop in a controlled and reasonable manner to give people greater autonomy and strengthen individual abilities, given the long-term legitimacy and survival of the assistance reform. Mr President, I would like to We'll see the human being, not the systems. At the same time, it is absolutely crucial to have a holistic approach and a holistic view of the different subsystems that involve the individual, whether it is the Social Insurance Agency, the municipality or the county councils. The government hasn't done the right thing from the start. Redo, and go back to the Ministry of Social Affairs after the debate this afternoon and write a new and clear assignment to Försäkringskassan with a holistic view of the people, the relatives and the family. It is time for the government to start acting, Mr President. The Moderates advocate a number of things in this context. Firstly, we are talking about zero tolerance for shortcomings. Lack of quality shall not be accepted. Bad quality in public services is wasteful. The poor quality of alternative profit-making activities is to be regarded as fraud against taxpayers. In both cases, it is a matter of betrayal of caretakers and users. Secondly, there is zero tolerance of cheating, abuse, fraud and crime. Freedom of choice, competition and clear quality requirements should lead to better welfare. Thirdly, it is a matter of authorisation for supervision. Provide resources and opportunities for supervision. The quality shall be monitored as necessary. Fourthly, we are talking about the efficient use of taxpayers' common resources. There should be order in the welfare. Fifthly, it is a question of keeping the control of costs in order. But it should be done in a legally secure way with a holistic view of man. Sixthly, closer supervision also requires follow-up and that they can go hand in hand. Mr President, I would like to The view of the whole must therefore be clearer than it has been from this government to date in terms of protecting, developing and strengthening assistance reform based on its principles. Mr President, I would like to I have not yet received answers to my two quite simple questions. The first is most important to get answers to: when – not about – the government and the Government will give a new and clear mission to the Social Insurance Agency, where the government once again puts people at the centre.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-278	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the debate on basic needs has arisen is due to the fact that there is a shared response and more than one principal. Instead of focusing only on cutting costs, the investigation should perhaps focus even more on reviewing the possibility of having a single principal. Personally, I think it should be the state. What worries me is that for the government it seems to be just about cutting costs. In 37 places in the 25-page Committee Directive, the word "costs" is mentioned. It is nothing but worrying that the government has such a strong ambition to bring down the costs of personal assistance at all costs. The government's stated aim as a first priority to cut costs and reduce the number of hours granted remains – despite all the alarm reports that have come, despite all the stories from real life and despite all the emails we have received about people who have been affected. The aim remains, despite an attempt at committee initiatives to delete that particular sentence in the letter of regulation. Unfortunately, the initiative did not receive a majority in committee when the Moderates chose not to support the proposal. The government does not seem to see the economic plus side either. It is about parents who can work, pay taxes and consume. These are personal assistants who also pay taxes and consume. It is about people with disabilities who can get to work, study and more. In addition to the profit in terms of quality of life and the opportunity to live a life like everyone else, the economic gain for society is very great. Let me be clear that we cannot, of course, allow the costs to run smoothly. On the other hand, we believe that certain things in welfare must actually be allowed to cost. There are some other areas for which the government is responsible, which obviously has to cost a great deal, and where the costs have to run without the government seeming to react. In their eagerness to bring down state costs, they choose instead to go after the LSS. I do not intend to pit groups against each other, but it is a fact that there is a bag of money and that priority must be given to it. It must be possible to have clear cost thinking without having as an objective that costs must be cut at any price. In this case, the price for the disabled and their relatives is far too high. It even gets scary loud. The developments we are seeing today through reports in the media on how assistance is withdrawn and how the lives of users and their relatives are affected are not just worrying. As I said earlier, it is not worthy of a welfare society that those in greatest need of society's help do not receive it – even though this is a law of rights. It does not improve as the government gave the Social Insurance Agency instructions to stop the development of the number of hours of assistance granted before the review was launched. Once again, this is a signal policy that has led to the suffering of disabled people. Their assistance hours have been reduced or withdrawn. As regards the request to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, I wonder how this can be done in practice without affecting those in need of support. I have asked Åsa Regnér that question without receiving a satisfactory answer. I cannot understand how directives can be given to stop the development of costs without, at the same time, giving clear directives on how this can be done without those who need it most being affected. We are critical of this way going by the back door and dismantling assistance and LSS in secret. Please stop the dismantling!
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-287	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, the government has set up an investigation to review LSS issues in a broad way. There, the question of long-term sustainable cost development is only part of it. The main focus is to review how the law works with the overall goal, which is the same as before: that the individual has the opportunity to live like others and the other very fine formulations the law contains. However, the idea is to review how enhanced quality, accuracy, holistic approach and diversity of efforts can be realised. The development of technical aids goes at lightning speed, and much has happened since the law was written. It is really encouraging, and the Green Party strongly believes in both the opportunities of eHealth and the advances of technology in this area. Likewise, today's knowledge of rehabilitation is quite different from before, and it is important that everyone who needs rehabilitation receives it according to the latest available knowledge. Being entitled to and given the opportunity to train one's own ability maximum is important in order to become as independent as possible and reduce the need for external support. It's very urgent. Legal certainty is also something that needs to be reviewed, and the investigation should do so. That it is important shows not least different people's stories about how different it can actually look. The equality of access to bets is another side of the same coin. The investigation will also look at other issues, such as the classification of persons. There are some needs that today fall outside, and additions to the law may need to be made. This is a major and urgent task, and we look forward to the investigation's proposals. I would also like to mention an area which we feel is particularly important both as an individual party and as a government party. This is true of the high unemployment rate among people with disabilities when compared with the rest of the population. Some efforts are made in the 2017 budget, but in this area there is every reason to come back. Discrimination issues are also and have always been central to the Green Party. In the government, Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke has produced a proposal to strengthen the law on non-availability as discrimination. The proposal is that companies with fewer than 10 employees should also be included, which is not the case today.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-292	This is your calendar! The Center Party defends the assistance. The Center Party defends the individual's freedom of choice. Our starting point is that all people can grow, want to be able to support themselves and want to be fully involved in society. M en how do the Social Democrats and the Green Party – and indeed the Left Party – view assistance? How do you defend and explain the government's triple shot at assistance? The government does not list the standard hourly cost of assistance at the same level as the wage increase. It will knock out many smaller assistance companies, which in turn will give less choice and choice to users. The regulation letter to Försäkringskassan gives an order for stricter application of the legislation regarding assistance. The Social Insurance Agency shall contribute to breaking the development of the number of hours in the assistance allowance. An investigation is also being set up with the aim of reducing costs, any directive decided by the government. All three measures are therefore government decisions that the Riksdag does not have to decide on. It's a triple shot from the government directly against the assistance. There are many of us who question the government's intentions with assistance and its clear focus on resources, and that the Left Party is trying to score points on the issue seems a little ironic, I think. In fact, the government itself has made possible the policy it is now pursuing. Isn't the V widow in favour of the policy it says it supports in other contexts? How did the Left Party take an oath on this in budgetary negotiations with the Social Democrats and the Green Party? Or was it simply a bad budget negotiation, which is now being tried to patch and fix as best it can? Mr. Alman! The Centre Party defends the fundamental intention of the support and service agenda. It is a law of rights that gives people with large disabilities the opportunity to live like others. For the Center Party, the principle is that the n so m need assistance should also have the power to decide both who should provide assistance and how it should be carried out, which in nte is always a matter of course. Anyone who receives less than 20 hours of assistance per week after a review may go from having a large group of assistance practitioners to choosing between being referred to the assistance offered by the municipality. This limits the user's ability to control his own assistance. For the Center Party, it is self-evident that all users should be given equal opportunities to control their own assistance. The provisions in force also provide for a decision on assistance compensation to be reviewed after two years. The reasons for reconsideration are based on the fact that needs can change over time, but for some it is actually quite unlikely that the condition would change in two years. Moreover, since the two-year trials are often a mentally stressful process for those concerned, we in the Center Party believe that the system needs to be simplified. Mr. Alman! It's not wrong to review the assistance and the LSS. It needs to do as much as it does in all policy areas, as I said in my first speech. But the starting point for government parties has been to reduce costs. This shows, not least, the triple blow to the assistance of the government's Social Democrats and the M iljö Party with the support of the Left Party. Instead, the purpose of the investigation should be to examine how assistance can be improved and strengthened based on the individual's needs and how choice of freedom for the individual is protected – all with the aim of achieving the goal of living like others and also being part of society and social development one.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-300	Mr President, I would like to As we have heard here in the debate, Åsa Regnér believes that this does not at all undermine the rights of people with disabilities. The focus is on tackling the running costs and increasing assistance hours – which she seems to mean is exclusively due to increased cheating and overuse. To frame fraudsters in all honour, but who can you really get by cutting the assistance? Those of us who have read the reports to which the government refers repeatedly know that this is being highlighted as an important enough reason why costs and hours are increasing. But we also know that there are a number of other explanations that the government talks about less. We're getting older. Survival rates have increased. Männis in need of personal assistance tend to have a greater need for help the older they get. These are perfectly legitimate reasons why hours are increasing. Regardless of what we think about it in substance, according to the government this is the reason for the change in the regulation letter. Åsa Regnér believes that it would have been totally unacceptable not to act against those who exploit or cheat our tax money. She also believes that it is to fail not to make sure that the money goes to what it is intended for. That's absolutely true. The only problem is that this is not what you do in the regulatory letter. There is nothing in that wording that says that you should limit the companies' ability to make profits. There is nothing in this wording to show that we can act decisively against the companies that use our systems. However, there are many indications that more people may lose their assistance. People may have to pay the price for the government's disguised savings. People may have their civil rights removed. In addition to the disastrous consequences for those affected, there is an imminent risk of rounding up legislation. It goes without saying that it is not possible to allow people's needs to be governing if, at the same time, they call on the Social Insurance Agency to reduce the number of hours. Mr President, I would like to We believe that this is unacceptable. It's really a betrayal. Now that the wording of the regulation letter seems to remain, I would like to have an answer to the question of how the government should ensure that people's legal rights to receive assistance are not curtailed by the urge to reduce the increase in the number of hours.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-307	Mr President, I would like to It's not wrong to investigate the LSS. The investigation that the Government has set up and which is due to be completed in 2018 is justified. I share the view of the Minister for Social Affairs here that there are a number of judgments that call for a review of legislation and regulation. The criticism of the Liberals is not about the fact that you have set up an investigation. That's justified. Then I can be critical of the directives. The word "costs" is mentioned as many times as possible. Extending the freedom of individuals is not mentioned at all. It gives you a huge skewed perspective, but let's go. It is not wrong to investigate the LSS legislation. We all want answers to a number of questions. It is clear that we have a slightly different picture of reality as to why the hours have increased and so on. It is good to investigate the question and try to find an answer to it. The problem is that before you have the answers, you are ordering cuts in general. You can withdraw the letter of intent you have written, but you do not want that, so these reductions are now taking place. I do not object to the investigations that you do. It is possible that Maria Larsson should have appointed that investigation already a few years ago, but it is good that it is now added. That is not our criticism. The criticism is that even before you have the answers, you are ordering changes to the reform by deciding on reductions. It is a law of rights, so one can of course say: It doesn't matter what the government writes, because the Social Insurance Agency will still comply with the law. This is true, but in all rights legislation there is scope for interpretation. When you say that the Social Insurance Agency will save hours, of course, you will not commit criminal offences, but you will follow your directives on saving hours compared to what you would otherwise have done; that is obvious. Mr President, I would like to The LSS reform is an expensive reform. We'll admit that. It imposes considerable costs on society. It costs almost 30 billion each year, and that is a lot of money. There are other things in our society that cost 30 billion or more. The question is: Is it too expensive? Isn't it worth it, or is it worth it? That is the question that has to be asked. I mean, it's worth the money. It provides such an enormous increase in the freedom and independence of the individuals concerned. It's about a few individuals. We have 10 million inhabitants. In this perspective, very few people use LSS. But for these 16 000 people, the search for freedom is enormous, and that is why we think it is worth it. Remember: What is the alternative? Well, the alternative is to go back to how it used to be, that these people should live in nursing homes, and it is also very expensive. What is, of course, speculated about now is that the government is pushing for savings at Försäkringskassan, and then municipalities need to increase the number of nursing homes. Then only the costs are moved while people's freedom, independence and the ability to live their lives are limited. Åsa Regnér makes it sound like the companies have a strong incentive to increase the number of hours. This may be the case, but it is not the companies that decide the need for care. One cannot say that it is the companies that have been pushing to increase the hours. It is Försäkringskassan that determines how many hours are to be granted in the individual case. If the hours have increased, it depends on the decision of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. It sounds to me in the debate that almost everyone in Parliament agrees that this should be changed. I find it strange that it was not reflected in the vote of the Social Affairs Committee yesterday. If, now, all parties except the government parties agree that this will change, we should be able to force the government to back down. We can re-examine the issue in the Social Affairs Committee and test it. It now sounds like six parties are opposed to the government's proposal, but that was certainly not the case in committee yesterday. But I welcome that change, if it is a real change.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-317	Mr President, I would like to We have heard a lot from the government in this debate, although that is not at all what we might have hoped to hear. Among other things, a reference was made to what Minister Maria Larsson said and did during the previous government period. Maria Larsson stated that a review should be carried out so that there is a better consistency with other formulations that the Government read out. That is absolutely true, and that is what we did. We continued to dig to see where the errors were. But what we didn't do was start pulling down on those who have real needs. I have taken out the regulatory letters to Försäkringskassan from some of the last few years. If you compare the writings, there are some similarities. For example, we wrote in the 2012 regulatory letter: In 2013, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency (Försäkringskassan) provided effective control of the assistance compensation, more efficient processing and improved the quality of investigations, and improved the quality and safety of decisions, especially in the first decision of the assistance reimbursement. In the rest of the regulatory letters we wrote to Försäkringskassan, they are similar wordings. The difference is that the government starts the entire regulation letter – the first assignment of the year to the agency – with the wording: So, before we know that it is too many hours, the responsible authority is given the task of breaking the trend. It has already been decided: it is paid out for many hours. It should not be possible to pay out more hours, although it is not known whether the needs are increasing or whether the effect may be that taxpayers will have increased costs when municipalities have to take over responsibility. Social Democraticly led municipalities are also involved in describing the effect from this year when the authority has withdrawn the assistance compensation for someone. We can see that costs increase not only by 100 but sometimes by 200, 300, 400 or 500% when responsibility passes to the municipality. This is not protecting the reform that the government claims to want to defend. However, it is not just the regulatory letter that is the problem, but how the government talks about this important reform. When Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson quite just a year ago was asked where we can make cuts and where we can save, she mentioned the assistance allowance. There the government saw an opportunity to cut back. The Government of Regnér itself and the Prime Minister say that money goes to lawyers and consultants. Yeah, there's money for lawyers and consultants, but it's about pretty little. Let me return to the social security report and quote the administrators' assessment of the impact of the change in the use of lawyers: ––– It will therefore be particularly important for the administrator to justify his decision carefully. If this were not done before, it would be very serious.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-324	Mr President, I would like to I take note of what Jan Björklund spoke about regarding the treatment of the initiative in committee. I very much agree with him that the Alliance seems to say one thing in closed rooms and another in the Chamber. One thing is also said in government and another in opposition. Among other things, there are a number of quotations by the representatives of the Moderates in economic matters, Ulf Kristersson, where he speaks in almost scornful terms about the government's lack of control in the assistance compensation. This is an issue that needs to be dealt with in a good way. We must dare to tell taxpayers and people who are entitled to personal assistance that we want to do a lot and that we dare to debate the issue in order for the intentions of the legislation to actually be fulfilled. Today, too many ways are not. The funds go to the wrong things too much. It is true that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, which many have now mentioned, will help to break the development of the number of hours within the assistance allowance. However, it should also ensure good law enforcement. Processing, investigations and decisions shall be equivalent throughout the country and shall be of high quality so that the right person receives the right compensation. How is this wrong? The government governs the kingdom and has the authorities to help it do so. It is a matter of taking responsibility here, and we have done so. I want the intentions of the legislation to be maintained, but that is not possible if we are passive and do not dare to take on the difficult things. I maintain that it is a problem that perhaps 10% of 30 billion is spent on advertising and sponsorship.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-328	Mr President, I would like to Many who came here today and who have listened to the conversation and the debate believed that the government and the Government had listened to the reality of the decisions that have been made so far. The words of the responsible Government are not related to the reality that has arisen. The government has the responsibility, and that is exactly what the Government said when she stood in the pulpit: it is the government that governs the country. Then do it! Go back to the Ministry of Social Affairs and give a new clear assignment to Försäkringskassan – not individual accounts! The Government is Minister of Social Affairs, Mr President. It is not the Minister for Finance who is taking part in today's debate, but the Minister for Social Affairs. She is responsible for both protecting rights law and taking responsibility for the state's common resources that taxpayers have made possible. Mr President, I would like to The government controls the state authorities. The Riksdag and the Parliamentary Social Committee do not do that. The responsible minister sits here, and she has the opportunity to go back and write about and do the right thing. It is not possible to wait until autumn 2018 to get order in the welfare of the assistance. That responsibility must be assumed by the government and the Government here and now.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-331	Mr President, I would like to I am currently on leave of absence from my work as a personal assistant. I know how needed I was and how vital my work was for the woman I worked with before I ended up here in Parliament. I think it says something about society, about how healthy it is, how to take care of the people in need of help. Cost-consciousness is certainly a must for all serious politicians. But how do you appreciate and measure the cost of a life of quality of life or dignity? We are talking about people whose lives will be like a prison, a house arrest, if they do not get the personal assistance they need. It is also about family members who are burned out and on sick leave when they are forced to take disproportionate responsibility. The consequence of the dismantling of assistance compensation is ultimately a cost to society, which I mentioned earlier. If you do not already question the restriction of personal assistance and the LSS for other reasons, you might think about whether this will actually be a saving in the end. I will continue to protect the LSS and its original intentions. I think that a move should be made and politicians should take back power over the interpretations and rights that the LSS should really give. Clear definitions of basic needs are needed. You have to look at the possibility of having a head man. The list can really be done a long way over things that can improve LSS rather than dismantle it. Reducing costs is not on the list of Swedish Democrats. I do not care which government policy has led to today's dismantling. But pie-throwing and excuses are not worthy of this discussion. This is directly offensive to people with disabilities who no longer receive the help they need. Get out of the sandbox and solve the problems we have right now!
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-336	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to say briefly that the assistance reform and the LSS as a whole are incredibly important, and they mean a lot to individuals, family members and our whole society. I hope that today's debate continues in many other constructive discussions on how we both preserve and develop one of our society's perhaps most important reforms. I would also like to thank the Christian Democrats who initiated the debate as well as all the parties involved. I would also like to thank all those who have come here to listen to the debate.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-338	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party defends the fundamental intent of the Act on Support and Service. It is a law of rights that gives people with large disabilities the opportunity to live like others. The centre party's starting point is that all people can grow and want to be able to support themselves and be fully involved in society. It's not wrong to review the assistance and the LSS. It needs to be done constantly, as in all other policy areas. But instead, with the support of the Left Party, the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party are making a triple blow to assistance. The starting point has been to review costs and not how assistance can be improved and strengthened. We in the Center Party consider this to be quite the wrong entry point. Instead, the purpose of the investigation should be to examine how we can make the assistance more consistent with the individual's needs and how freedom of choice for the individual can be safeguarded. The Government's regulation letter to Försäkringskassan gives orders for stricter application of the legislation regarding assistance. That, then, as the Minister blames the precedent, when the legislation deals with individual assessments where everyone is different and where it is the needs of each individual that are to be assessed, does not hold up. Please, do it again and do it right! Investigation directives and regulatory letters to authorities are for the government to decide on. This is therefore not something that the Riksdag has to decide on. Mr President, I would like to The centre party's starting point is that all people can grow and want to be able to support themselves and be fully involved in society. It is therefore self-evident for the Center Party to safeguard assistance – and freedom of choice for those who need assistance.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-342	Mr President, I would like to I do not really think I am getting answers on how the government can guarantee that people's legislative rights are guaranteed. Maybe it's because the government knows it can't. With almost a full debate going on, I can state the facts. We have a government that claims it stands up for the LSS, although it clearly attacks it. Then there is a former government side that stands and lifts out the glories at all, although they themselves have been a powerful contributor to the situation as it is today. It may come as a surprise, but it doesn't really matter how much beautiful words you spit out if you don't act accordingly. I was concerned before the debate but, if possible, I am even more concerned now. This is not the first time that the rights of beneficiaries of assistance have deteriorated. It shows a frightening development, regardless of government. I don't even want to think about what the future will look like if it goes on like this. But our struggle continues, and so I would like to conclude with our call to the government: Delete the sentence in the letter of regulation!
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-345	Mr President, I would like to I feel a certain frustration. When the government gave this directive to the Social Insurance Agency, we Liberals were quite alone in our criticism. I now welcome the fact that more and more people agree with this criticism. The Left Party did not take this up in the budget negotiations with the government last autumn, or perhaps you brought it up and were run over. I now welcome the change that has taken place. That's good of the Left Party. The SD agreed yesterday in committee with the line taken by the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. That's good, too. I also hear from the Moderates and the Center that you are about to join. This too is good. It was a pity that you did not do so on the vote yesterday, but if you do so when we return to the issue, we have a majority and can stop it. We can stop what's going on, and that's very good. When Åsa Regnér is to justify the directive to Försäkringskassan, she talks about cheating, overuse, profits, marketing, advertising, lawyers and consultants. This is excessive or directly wrong on several points, but if this is what you are opposed to, can you please write it? Instead, because of this, you are giving the Social Insurance Agency the instruction to reduce the number of hours for disabled people. It's a hard-to-understand logic. If it's the commercials you're against, then ban it! For my part, I think that too is a bad idea. But don't cut the hours for the disabled because you're against other things! Åsa Regnér! There is only one reasonable thing to do, and that is to withdraw the order to the Social Insurance Agency to save on society's most vulnerable. Instead, let the investigation finish! I would like to thank Emma Henriksson and the Christian Democrats for requesting this debate. I would also like to thank all the participants and the audience.
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-349	Mr President, I would like to I would really like to believe in the Government and other representatives of the Government when you say that you want the tax funds allocated for personal assistance to be used for what they are intended for. But if it is to be believed, the well-formulated words about intentions must also be supported by action. This is where it breaks. In the words there is power, and the words must be connected. The power the government has chosen you to use to undermine what was once our most important freedom reform. What is now going on is that rights laid down by law are limited without popular decisions to do so. With suspicious and harsh slanting of speculative figures, the government is undermining the support of some of those in society who need support most. When you say that it can be 10 percent, you avoid saying that the uncertainty interval for the calculations about how much can be cheating is between 1.8 and 27.6%. So it can be 1.8% inaccuracies instead of 10. And all that doesn't even have to be cheating. In order to legitimise its austerity efforts, the government is trying to use pretexts only for wanting to stop crime, overexploitation and money allegedly going to unnecessary costs. But I say, as one of the top executives said on the grounds of speculation, that very large sums would be misused: ..................................................... Basically, this debate is about what society we want to be. What is it worth to us taxpayers that people who are born with or have acquired a disability are given the opportunity to live a life like others?
i-d8711abbcfef1c2f-353	Mr President, I would like to It is more than 20 years since the Act on Support and Service and the Act on Assistance Compensation came into force. This reform, in particular the part concerning personal assistance, has significantly improved the living conditions of women, men, girls and boys with extensive disabilities. These laws have played a major role in self-determination and in enabling people to live an independent life. The government therefore considers it important to safeguard these reforms, but also to develop them. People should be allowed to enjoy their rights, and they should not end up between the chairs. The investigation that the government has set up has been mentioned in the debate a number of times, but I do not know if you feel what is on paper instead of reading. It is because the content of the investigation is very broad and looks at the whole. The Alliance also set up a number of investigations which looked at the costs only. This investigation will look at issues such as dual headship, equality, equality and equal application across the country. It should also look at the standard and costs; it is well established that it is precisely in the increasing number of hours that profits and overuse can be hidden, and that is why it is important. But you should also see if you can, for example, disconnect the lawyers from the organizers. There are 1 000 companies of 16 000 people, and 65% are privatised through this reform. There's a lot of profitability in that. It is not wrong in itself, but the means must go to the right things for the sake of the people. Thank you for the debate. This is an incredibly urgent issue and a very important reform, which I am defending.
