i-38835b432a8225b5-23	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve cross-border transport infrastructure in Norrland. The Nordic countries are each other's largest trading partners, and the daily commuting between the countries is extensive. There are also large freight flows crossing the borders between our countries. It is important that cross-border infrastructure, in all parts of the country, makes it practical to live and work across borders and enables transport to take place efficiently. Dialogue between the Nordic governments is essential to achieve this. The development of cross-border transport infrastructure should cover all forms of transport and form part of the ongoing dialogue between national governments and the continued cooperation of authorities. During the autumn and spring I have had bilateral talks with my Nordic colleagues. I also took this spring's initiative for a joint meeting with the Nordic ministers on cooperation on infrastructure and infrastructure planning. The meeting was scheduled for 29 April, but unfortunately it had to be cancelled at very short notice. However, I assume that there is a continued strong will for dialogue on the issues. In the autumn, the Government intends to submit a proposal to the Riksdag on how to look at the direction of investments and maintenance. When the Riksdag has established a focus, action plans are followed in order to develop a cross-road national plan and county plans for the transport infrastructure for the period 2018–2029. Determination of the plans is expected in spring 2018. Concrete projects and measures are taken by the government in the forthcoming action plan. In this work, the link with our neighbours will be an important aspect to take into account.
i-38835b432a8225b5-30	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It is good that the Minister wants to be active in cooperation with his Nordic colleagues. There are many transport routes that cross land borders, and then good cooperation between different countries is absolutely necessary. It is not least important for our Swedish companies to be able to come all the way with their goods. With the interpellation, I would particularly like to highlight the bow between Mo in Rana in Norway, Umeå in Sweden and Vaasa in Finland. It is a very important freight route for northern Sweden. It's about keeping the transport route east open. Here is the link between Umeå and Vaasa, over Kvarken, very important. Work on a well-functioning ferry service, which also works long-term, was initiated by the Alliance Government when Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd was Minister of Infrastructure. The promise of the red-green politicians in Norrland was, at least before the elections, that this would continue even with a red-green government. There was a lot of tailing in this. The report on growth from the north highlighted the importance of infrastructure as a success factor. The very string I mentioned was highlighted as extra central. It is important for a large part of Sweden that it works. Mr President, I would like to I want to know how the Minister views this route that passes through three Nordic neighbours and how she intends to work to ensure that it works over time. In the previous application to the EU, the Finnish Government, together with the regions on both sides, wanted to help finance this, but the Swedish Government backed off in this situation. Mr President, I would like to I want to know if the Swedish Government can consider participating in the next application and taking financial responsibility.
i-38835b432a8225b5-39	Mr President, I would like to The work referred to by Edward Riedl, which began during the previous term of office, has been continued by the government, in particular by supporting the EU application submitted and seeking EU co-financing for the Kvarken ferry. Unfortunately, they were not allowed to join this round, but I guess they will come back with a new application in the next round. The Swedish Government has not backed out, but both the previous and the current government have been clear that we do not co-finance cross-border ferry operations or investments in ships. The reason is that it could have a precedent effect on other cross-border ferry connections, where we are careful not to have any state aid. However, as I said, the government contributes with other measures and supports the application. The government will continue to follow the issue and provide the support that is possible from the point of view of principle that we do not co-finance cross-border ferry services. I dare say that your party has no dissenting views on this issue, Edward Riedl. At least you didn't when you were in government. This is an important route, in the same way as there are several important routes in terms of both trade and freight transport for further transport out into the world as work commuting. That is why, in the next national plan, we will have cross-border traffic as an important aspect of the priorities to be made. This does not mean that Norrland's infrastructure has its own national plan, but the national plan aims to ensure accessibility throughout our country and also to take into account the important cross-border transport routes that we have in different parts of the country, including in Norrland.
i-38835b432a8225b5-44	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying once again that it is a good thing that the Minister thinks this is important and that we want to emphasise it in words. But then comes the important question, which is what money you are prepared to send in to make fine words come true. Among other things, the Kvarken ferry comes in as a very important part. It is a link between Sweden and Finland and the entire freight route that starts in Mo in Rana in Norway and passes Sweden and Finland and further east. Then you have to have a working ferry connection long-term. I can only note that the Finnish Government makes a different assessment from the Swedish Government, at least the new government. There you are prepared to go in with financial support, but the Swedish government is not. I can only regret that. Mr President, I would like to The Minister mentioned that the old government – the alliance government – had no different opinion, but that is not entirely true. When the work began, it was said: Let us come back in the next stage of funding, once it is to be built. I think the Minister makes it a little easy. No, of course, Norrland should not have its own infrastructure plan. Sometimes you might wish it were, but I don't think it's good for the long term either. The question, however, is how to prioritise. How is the Minister prepared to prioritise this important freight route in Norrland? I can only say that the Minister's own party colleague, Municipal Commissioner Hans Lindberg in Umeå – he is a social democrat just like the Minister – is very angry with the government because it is not prepared to carry out what was promised from the beginning. He even went so far as to say in a newspaper article – I guess the Minister also took note of the earlier one in spring, Mr President – threatened to strangle co-financing for the possible start of the Norrbotnia Line. It is not good if you as a government are not prepared to fulfil previous commitments. I can only regret that. The Finnish Government recognises the importance of this and is prepared to go in and support financially. I do not know whether it is worth prolonging the debate so much, Mr President. I think the Minister is clear in his response. There is no money to wait for a functioning ferry service, if I have interpreted her correctly.
i-38835b432a8225b5-52	Mr President, I would like to It will be an attempt to write a story in one way or another. There are clear statements by the former Minister for Infrastructure Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, where it is clear with all the necessary clarity that no co-financing is to be expected. There are general wordings stating that this is important and that it is prepared to continue to support it, but it was clearly stated that no co-financing was available. It is not that the government has not fulfilled a promise made by the previous government. That is the falsification of history, I would say. It was the then alliance government that decided on the current infrastructure plan, i.e. the one in force from 2014 to 2025. If it had been intended to co-finance a ferry service, it would of course have been increased in infrastructure planning. They chose not to. It is difficult to interpret it in any other way than that it did not intend to co-finance. I hope that solutions can be found. There the government has been prepared to discuss with the parties regionally about other measures that the government can take to support the project. We will continue to do so. We do not see that it is a viable way to put co-financing into ships, because it could have consequences elsewhere. That precedent the government does not want to help set. Neither did the old government, probably for good reason. Precisely what priorities the government will make in the next national plan is too early to say, but we have upgraded the importance of functioning freight routes in relation to how the old government looked at it. In the documents we receive, we have specifically requested that consideration should also be given to the availability of goods. We have also had a special freight hearing to ensure that these needs are met in the next national plan.
i-38835b432a8225b5-59	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, there is little point in extending the debate further. There are really no answers from the Minister regarding efforts in this direction, other than words. It is money that is needed to secure both the ferry connection and the bow in general. As I said earlier, I can only regret that the new Swedish Government has not understood the significance of this, as the Finnish Government and the regions on both sides have done.
i-38835b432a8225b5-61	Mr President, I would like to I can once again say that it was the then alliance government that decided on the infrastructure plan that is now in force – the national plan for investment and maintenance in state infrastructure. There is SEK 0 to a Kvarken connection. That's where we are. What the next national plan will be like, the government will decide in one and a half to two years. Even then, we will probably not co-finance ships, but that does not mean that we will not value and prioritise infrastructure in Norrland. There are other objects that we have had a slightly different view of. In fact, there were not so much more than fine words from the old government on this issue either.
i-38835b432a8225b5-63	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me whether I intend to step up work to combat the problem of illegal driving schools. In order to operate a traffic school, a licence from the Swedish Transport Agency is required, which is regulated by the Act on Traffic Schools. During the permit granting process, an assessment is made of whether the applicant is deemed to be able to conduct traffic school activities with regard to personal and financial conditions. Exercise driving requires that the student has a driving licence, and an approved supervisor is also required to hold a wrist permit. If you want to be a supervisor, you should have completed an introductory course, as the student should have done. In 2012 the rules for how many students a supervisor may have to a maximum of 15 were changed to prevent illegal practice driving. There is currently no evaluation of the regulatory change in the industry, but the industry and the Swedish Transport Agency have received signals that the change has not had the impact that it was expected to have. The Swedish Transport Agency is therefore looking at this issue in particular and is planning to carry out an evaluation of the change of regulation. The police have the primary responsibility to combat criminal activities, and today the Swedish Transport Agency has a dialogue with the police, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority on issues related to illegal traffic school activities. Making it easy for the industry to comply with the rules is a good way to counteract black driving school activities, and therefore last year the government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to analyse the regulation of traffic schools and drivers trainers and propose constitutional changes with a view to achieving simple and effective rules for access and supervision. The government commission has been carried out in cooperation with industry organisations and has resulted in concrete proposals from the Swedish Transport Agency for regulatory changes that facilitate companies in the industry. Together with the industry, the Swedish Transport Agency is now moving forward to develop better opportunities to work with self-control. The government considers fair competition to be a very important issue regardless of the industry. Companies that do right themselves should not be out-competed by those who do not comply with laws and regulations. Good driver training is important in order to give future drivers the necessary skills to drive safely. It is in the broad perspective of zero vision.
i-38835b432a8225b5-71	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start again by thanking the Minister for her reply. I have asked the Minister how she intends to step up the work to combat the problem of black traffic schools. I am trying to interpret the Minister's reply and can only see that the Minister does not intend to speed up this. If I am wrong, the Minister will be happy to say so in her next speech; she has at least a few comments to make. The black choir schools are exploding throughout Sweden. From being a relatively small urban phenomenon, this is now a problem throughout our country. Moreover, the size of the city seems to have grown very much – today 40 per cent of the legal traffic schools are experiencing a major problem with the black traffic schools. This means that, in some cases, it is even out of competition with illegal activities. Mr President, I would like to There are two major problems with the black traffic schools and how they spread quickly. The first is that road safety is compromised when you have unauthorised and unqualified trainers, and the second is that the legal traffic schools are affected. But of course also individuals who, sometimes in good faith, buy services from black driving schools are affected. Legal transport schools pay their supervisory fees, any profit taxes, social security contributions, payroll taxes and VAT. That is the basis of the way we live in this country. That is the basis for financing the common welfare. It is taxes from companies that do well that allow us to have a school together, that we can have health care, care for the elderly and everything else we think is important. This is the basis of the Swedish social contract. In fact, our job as politicians, Mr President, is to ensure that the responsible companies are not out-competed by companies that are misbehaved. You have to pay your taxes and charges, and you have to comply with the applicable rules. That's how it's supposed to work. As the operation of the black driving schools expands, we have both traffic problems and long-term problems in financing the common welfare. The Minister's entrance that companies that comply with laws and regulations should not be competed out of black business – that's what she says in her reply – I think basically is good, but I would have been shocked if the Minister had had had a different view than that companies should comply with laws and regulations and that one should not have illegal activities. My question to the Minister is, of course, whether she intends to intensify her work on this. Is she satisfied and feels that it is quite good as it is today, or is there reason to increase this? As I said, I am pleased that the Minister is against illegal activities, but I think that is obvious. My question therefore remains: what does the Minister intend to do? Is she going to pick up the pace, or is she happy with the situation as it is?
i-38835b432a8225b5-79	Mr President, I would like to I think it is clear from my reply that I am not satisfied with the situation as it is. At the same time, it should be clear that we have authorities in this country that have a little different tasks and tasks. In my field, I have no authority to curb criminal activity, but it is the task of the police. When it comes to tax evasion, it is the task of the Swedish Tax Agency, when it comes to health and safety at work, it is the task of the Swedish Work Environment Authority and so on. The Transport Agency, which is under me, has a supervisory responsibility for the traffic schools that are precisely traffic schools, that is to say, have the necessary permits. The Swedish Transport Agency will of course report to the police when you come into contact with activities that are not licensed and can be presumed to be engaged in criminal activities. However, it is not on the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate crimes, nor is it on the Swedish Transport Agency to prosecute. Having said that, it can also be said that, like many other crimes of this kind, it is difficult to prove the scale. We can get indicat ione r by driving schools and others around the country reporting how they are experiencing the situation, but it is in the nature of things that this is an activity that is very difficult to follow up. It is difficult to get a clear picture of the extent of the problem. It is also in the nature of the matter that it is difficult to detect and prosecute. It requires someone to be stopped in a police checkpoint and then you can prove that there has been a payment from the student to the supervisor. It is a difficult evidence situation, and it is also fairly low penalties. There is much to suggest that the rule change that took place in 2012, which reduced the number of allowed pupils per supervisor and where the intention was to curb the activity, has not had the intended effect. During next year, the Swedish Transport Agency will evaluate the legislative change and hopefully also come up with proposals as to whether other regulatory changes are needed. However, regulatory changes in themselves do not mean that people who today do not comply automatically with the law will do so. This is also an industry that is quite hard. Fewer and fewer young people choose to take a driving licence. This is because we are not implementing regulatory changes which, in practice, make it difficult for those who comply with the rules to continue to operate and run their businesses. It's a balancing act. We also do not want to make it difficult for young people to drive with a private tutor, because it is an important part of driving licence training that you also get enough driving time to drive a vehicle well. Overall, I am not at all satisfied with the presence of the business. It is a threat to the serious companies in the industry, it is a threat to road safety and it is a threat to the Swedish model we have both for road safety and for the social contract, that is, we are doing the right thing. I would like to see what the Swedish Transport Agency has to do with the measures it is looking at. If Edward Riedl has any concrete proposals for changes to the rules, I will of course welcome them, but at present this activity is primarily a police task.
i-38835b432a8225b5-88	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my first speech, it is in this way that companies that behave and pay their taxes and charges are the basis of the society in which we live. We must guard this. It is, as I said, about the Swedish social contract. One should be able to rely on others to take care of themselves. We have had a high tax standard in this country, and we shall be pleased and perhaps even a little proud of that, as a former Prime Minister expressed himself. In fact, this is the basis. I listen to what the Minister says, and I understand how the work is arranged between the various ministers. I understand that the Transport Agency is under the Ministry of Infrastructure. But that is the way the government is one, and it has a common responsibility for all issues. How the government chooses to set up its work, Mr President, is up to the government. What is to be expected is that different ministers talk to each other and also ensure that they coordinate their work in this regard. I do not think it is enough to say that the issue is under different trade unions. Someone must take responsibility within the government, either the Minister for Infrastructure or someone else, and take the lead in this matter. The question is who it should be. You can't just sit in the stands and wait. Mr President, I would like to The Minister is absolutely right and I know it's hard to prove this business. It is difficult both to detect it and ultimately to prosecute it. There are a couple of objectives going on at the moment, and this shows the problem. That is precisely why we need a lot of political proposals. I will come back to this because the Minister's own party was involved in voting against some of the changes that, among others, we Moderates proposed not so many months ago to remedy this. I have obtained from the statistics available from the authority under the minister that there are about 7 000 registered vehicles with double-command in Sweden. If I understand correctly, these cars are either used for legal car education or for the agency's own driving operations. That is what I can see the primary uses of these vehicles. If you count these together, you might be able to get 4 000 – 5 000 vehicles that are used in this way, nicely counted. Then there are a lot of vehicles with double-command that are used for something other than legal driving school activities and the agency's own activities. You can see in the statistics that in Malmö, for example, there is a private person who has four cars with double-command, Mr President. Maybe there is some enthusiast in Malmö who collects cars with double command. It could be, but it can also be assumed that it can be in a different way. If I were a minister and received these reports, I would get to grips with this and find out if this is true, if that is the case. I would step up the work, Mr President, as I asked the Minister to do. I am guessing that the Minister receives exactly the same e-mails and telephone calls that I receive from those who behave, those who have legal traffic schools, pay their taxes and charges and who are now being competed out by those who do not. Then the question is what the minister intends to do, because this is not good enough.
i-38835b432a8225b5-97	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, work is under way in which the Swedish Transport Agency, in consultation with the industry, reviews the regulations, makes it easier to follow the rules that exist and facilitates the lives of the driving schools that we want and which play an extremely important role in training safe car and motorcycle drivers in this country. An evaluation will also be carried out next year of the new regulatory framework that entered into force in 2012. At the same time, of course, the police always have the task of prosecuting crimes and prosecuting criminals. It applies to this criminal activity, just like any other criminal activity. If there are regulatory changes that can be made that do not have other negative effects on either private supervisors, because we want them in this system too, or for the existing driving school activities, we will of course also look at such changes in the rules. But this is basically a problem that is that we have people in Sweden who are prepared to violate legislation, tax morality and other things and carry out this illegal activity, just as we have people who engage in illegal activities in other areas. It is basically a police task to prosecute crimes. I am prepared to review the need for possible regulatory changes. However, it is important to point out that this is not primarily a traffic issue but a criminal activity.
i-38835b432a8225b5-101	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with what I did not have time to say in my previous speech. The minister wanted tips on what to do, and of course I'll come up with that. Last spring, we suggested Moderates to reduce the number of private wrists from today's 15. I agree with the Minister that you should of course be able to guide and practice privately with your children or other close ones – it's great that it is that way. Even if the number of private tutors is reduced from today's 15, it is actually possible to have an exemption system. If you need to supervise someone with 15 close relatives, you can apply for this. Then the authorities also get a little more control on this, for which normal private person supervises 15 people at the same time? We don't have to have such generous rules. Let us implement this rather simple measure, low-hanging fruit, to begin with. Then I agree with the Minister that it is the police who should prosecute crimes. But then let's listen to what the police, prosecutors, the legal traffic schools and the Swedish Transport Schools Association say, because they have a lot of suggestions to get to grips with this so that it becomes easier to detect and prosecute. We don't have to invent the wheel ourselves. There are proposals that we can actually get to grips with. We need to get to grips with this cheating. It is, as I said, about both road safety and the right of legal companies to know that we politicians stand up for and ensure that they compete on fair and reasonable terms and that they do not get competition from those who do not behave. My question, Mr President, was whether the Minister is prepared to intensify the work or whether she is satisfied with the time that is. My last question to the Minister is whether she would actually be willing to take the lead in this. Can the Minister, even if it is on the responsibility of different ministers, consider tackling this?
i-38835b432a8225b5-106	Mr President, I would like to I have already answered that question in both my previous posts, but I am happy to do so again. I am not satisfied with the situation. We do not know how common illegal activities in which non-approved schools are teaching, but we know that they occur and to an excessive extent. We want to curb this for reasons of competition but also for reasons of road safety. I am prepared to look at whether more regulatory changes need to be made, but this must be done in such a way that we do not make it difficult for private supervisors to practice driving with their young people. But it is not certain that they must be related. It is not certain that your own parents have a driving licence, for example, so there may be very good reasons that one person is a supervisor for more students. The regulatory changes to be made in that case must ensure that the desired activity is not made more difficult. This applies both to the approved private schools and to the private supervision activities. But both questions are answered. No, I'm not happy. And yes, I am prepared to review whether there are regulatory changes that need to be made.
i-38835b432a8225b5-109	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me whether it is my position that the government's savings of SEK 500 million on road maintenance are compatible with the zero vision and whether it is compatible with the government's target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Since the two amendments concern essentially the same question, I answer them in a context. The government's overall objective for transport policy is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The Government has high ambitions in terms of ensuring the quality of existing transport infrastructure and developing the transport system as a whole, which is a prerequisite for jobs and sustainable development throughout Sweden. The Government has therefore carried out, among other things, substantial reinforcements of railway maintenance. This amounts to SEK 620 million in 2015 and SEK 1,240 million per year during the period 2016– 2018. The Government has also announced in the budget proposal for 2016 further investments in both railway and road maintenance in rural areas with a total of SEK 800 million oner SEK during the period 2016– 2019. The zero vision means that the transport system must be gradually adapted so that no one is killed or seriously injured in traffic. The Government is keen that efforts to achieve the zero vision continue and announced in the 2016 budget proposal an intensified effort to improve road safety and safety. Examples of successful measures are the central separation of road routes, the use of road safety cameras and adjusted speed limits, i.e. in particular different investment measures in the road network. During the past autumn and winter, the government closely followed the development of expenditure, which showed that expenditure on migration in particular was expected to rise sharply in 2016 compared to when the budget bill was drawn up. In order to avoid hitting the expenditure ceiling and to safeguard welfare activities, the government announced at the end of 2015 a number of measures with expenditure-restrictive effects. According to the Budget Act, the Government is obliged to take measures to avoid exceeding the ceiling. One of these measures means that the funding for maintenance of roads will be reduced by SEK 500 million in 2016. The Finnish Transport Agency has informed me that road maintenance will be carried out so that no immediate consequences regarding accessibility and safety will arise for road users and business despite the reduction of the grant. However, the reduction implies, among other things, re-priorities and that some of the planned measures will need to be postponed. However, I would like to point out that the reduction is temporary and that the funds allocated for road maintenance in 2016 after the reduction still amount to SEK 12.3 billion.
i-38835b432a8225b5-114	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I asked the Minister if she believes that the government's reduction in road maintenance of SEK 500 million affects the zero vision. During the year of the alliance government, road traffic deaths decreased from 445 in 2006 to 275 in 2014. I am very proud of the efforts and actions carried out and, above all, of the effects achieved during the eight years of the Alliance. This means that fewer people lost their lives on our roads. More people came home to their families. Fewer families needed to mourn a missing person. We in Sweden have a broad political commitment to the zero vision and work on it. That is good, because the support is usually large regardless of the color of the government. During the eight years that this was accomplished, much was about central railings, forgiving roadsides and other things that made it possible for us to reduce the number of fatalities. It is also important that road maintenance in the future is good for continuing to reduce the number of road deaths. Mr President, I would like to The Minister simply chooses not to answer my question as to whether the current government's savings on road maintenance affect the zero vision. She didn't say anything about this. I think the answer is missing because there is only one answer: of course it has a negative impact on the zero vision if you spend less money on road maintenance. When the new government took office, it declared great and proud that it would restart work on the zero vision. These were powerful words, not least in view of the great efforts made by the Alliance and the good results achieved with almost a halving of the number of deaths in traffic in Sweden. I thought it sounded mellow when, at that point, it was said to restart work on the zero vision, because it sounded like nothing had happened. Nevertheless, I tried to see the positive side of the matter. I thought that this government might go even further than we did in the year of the alliance government. I thought there'd be a lot of money for the road safety work. But as usual from this government, it was just empty words. Instead of spending money, the government chose to make savings on the road network. It was not a new start with the zero vision but simply a withdrawal of road maintenance with SEK 500 million. Mr President, I would like to My question is unanswered by the Minister. Does she not think that this has a negative impact on zero vision?
i-38835b432a8225b5-122	Mr President, I would like to My written answer, which I read out here in the speaker's chair just now, shows the answer to that very question. However, I chose not to tell you what I believe, but to refer to the Finnish Transport Administration's assessment. The Finnish Transport Agency estimates that the temporary reduction of 500 million in 2016 does not affect safety and competitiveness. We are redeploying priorities and postponing certain measures to the future, but we still have more than 12 billion at our disposal for road maintenance. At the same time, the government has invested a great deal of resources in improving railway maintenance, as it is on the railways that there are really large and serious shortcomings. There we have increased the allocation by 20% compared to the alliance government. For this reason, it becomes a bit bleak to say that the government does not take responsibility for the maintenance. It is a temporary reduction that is relatively modest in relation to the total allocation. Of course, the government will continue to work on road safety, not just by providing more money. We are receiving great and positive attention around the world for our work on the zero vision, which was adopted back in 1997. At regular intervals you have to see how far we have reached and identify the next step. We've taken the low-hanging fruits. What problems remain? Are there new groups of road users? As far as the development of vehicles is concerned, a great deal has happened since 1997. Does this impose new requirements on road safety? How do we need to deal with the increase in heavy traffic? It is not just a question of making new money. It is also a question of ensuring that collaboration between different parties works well, identifying the risks involved and using resources in the most effective way. This is why the government has initiated a new approach to road safety and will shortly be presenting the results of that initiative. It is an important issue for those affected, but it is also an important socio-economic issue. Road accidents are extremely costly. They cause both premature death and – which we don't talk about as often – serious damage that destroys the lives of people and their families. Of course, this also means a cost to society. This is therefore still an important issue, which is why the government has taken a new approach to road safety issues.
i-38835b432a8225b5-128	Mr President, I would like to Let us first conclude that what the Swedish Transport Administration said was that the saving of SEK 500 million had consequences. We simply need to postpone projects. Mathematics in Social Democratic is not always that simple. I myself find it difficult to keep up when Social Democrats talk about investments and it should be listed money. However, I have learned one thing after my years in politics: when Social Democrats say that they should bet, it is important to be prepared with the calculator! Suddenly you stand there with less money than there was in the beginning and wonder what the bet was. When someone says that it should invest in an area, one could easily think that instead there would be more money. The minister promised to restart work on the zero vision. Some of the points raised by the Minister are, I think, good. Of course, some new things should be added to this, but this does not mean that we should not continue with good road maintenance and the efforts that have already begun. Those things are the basis of this. The other is good, but what we're talking about is the base. I've been thinking about what the minister said. So you should invest 800 million SEK. Now it's time to keep up – it's always difficult with numbers, so I'll try to make it as simple as possible. SEK 800 million would be added to road and rail. Then you might think that this means more money. This should be done over three years, which means 267 million per year for road and rail – the Minister mentions rail even if the debate is about road. In the end, it was SEK 100 million more to go this year of the 800 million that the minister talked about. But that was not the case either, since the government chose to save 500 million dollars. Then we're down to minus 400 million this year. This is mathematics in Social Democratic at its best. You're supposed to invest in this area, you're going to restart and things are going to happen! I love to watch social democrats on TV and tell great stories about all of this. But when you sit down with the calculator, Mr President, you can see that it was minus 400 million. Yes, says the Minister, but this applies during the period, and we will add, restore and so on. For my part, I continue to work with my calculator and concludes that at best it will be SEK 200 million less during the period for road maintenance in Sweden. It's not a big bet. That is why I am taking this debate, Mr President. For me, zero vision is important. It is, as the Minister himself says, actually about people. People should not have to lose their lives or be seriously injured in traffic, and we must add money to this. I am concerned when investments ultimately turn into savings. I'm really worried about that. At its best, it will be SEK 200 million less during the planning period. Mr President, I would like to I am not an expert in mathematics in Social Democratic, but with my own calculator I tried to keep up. The Minister will be happy to correct and correct me if there is anything I have missed. But the fact is that in the end there was less money for this grand venture. It's not a new start to zero vision.
i-38835b432a8225b5-136	Mr President, I would like to As Edward Riedl may know, I have a background as a municipal politician in Gothenburg. If it is the case that the Social Democratic Government is currently engaged in creative mathematics, we have our teacher in the former Finance Minister. He could invest heavily in the municipalities, but so it was still reduced state subsidies in the end. On this we can certainly discuss a great deal, if we would like. Now, however, it is about money for road maintenance. When the government presented the budget proposal for 2016 in September 2015, the basic grant for road maintenance was fixed, and we added SEK 100 million a year in addition to that framework specifically aimed at road maintenance in rural areas, because we saw that we needed to make efforts there. Then in the autumn of 2015 we had a very strong increase in refugee migration to Sweden, which I think Edward Riedl noticed. It could be chosen to meet the increased cost of reducing municipal subsidies or reducing the transfer systems for people who are sick and unemployed. The Social Democratic Government chose not to do this. Instead, we chose to continue to invest in the municipalities, because we know that it is the municipalities that will ensure that the people who have come to our country get as good a start as possible. You should be able to offer schooling, county councils should be able to offer medical care and so on. The costs of, for example, the Migration Agency increased, but this government chose not to allow sick people, unemployed people or others who use our welfare to pay the extra cost. As a result, we made a saving on road maintenance. I think it would have been great if we could have kept that money, but at the same time I must honestly say that I think that a temporary reduction in road maintenance for a year was better than the other options that I listed here. I know, however, that we have slightly different views about the parties between them. We have now completed the emergency phase of the reception of refugees and are entering a new phase where it is a matter of increasing efforts for establishment. We will present a new budget for next year within a few weeks. There, as Edward Riedl may have heard yesterday, we have better economic conditions than we had feared. Of course, an overall assessment is made of where taxpayers' money is most useful in the situation we are currently in. Road maintenance will be at the old level in 2017, and this means that it was a temporary saving for 2016. In fact, the EUR 100 million dedicated to rural roads remain. But overall it is a saving of 500 million during this year. I would remind you again that it is not the case that we are not carrying out road maintenance this year, which one can easily get the impression is the case if one listens to Edward Riedl. More than SEK 12 billion remains for that area in 2016, compared to a temporary saving of 500 million.
i-38835b432a8225b5-142	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me say that my ambition was not at all to lead anyone to believe that no money is being invested in road maintenance. But the government said that the work on zero vision would be re-initiated. It was very strong, given that in eight years the Alliance almost halved the number of road deaths. But I thought there'd be big bets. What the minister said at the time was that it would be added 800 million kronor to the road and railway. As I said, it is a matter of mathematics in Social Democratic. I pulled out the calculator and started looking where we ended up in the end. It was a three-year investment, so it was only 267 million for road and rail. For the road there was 100 million left a year. Then the Minister saved 500 million, and so I note that there was not much to do with this grand venture. So it was far less money no matter how you choose to count. That's 400 million less this year. During the period it will be SEK 200 million less for road maintenance. I did not say that the Minister removed road maintenance, Mr President, but I noted that the investment it was talking about will be a saving however one chooses to count. That's what I'm opposed to. The zero vision is important, and I know that both I and the Minister are behind this. But you have to add money. We must have the resources to continue our work, and road maintenance has an impact on the ability to achieve what we want in terms of zero vision. My question was whether this affects zero vision. The Minister refers to Trafikverket, and I can state that what Trafikverket says is that it had consequences when money was saved. You just had to postpone projects.
i-38835b432a8225b5-146	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that we have not touched on the 1.24 billion or the 100 million to increase rail maintenance. If we're going to have the calculator there, it's good to have it all the way to the finish line. It is quite right that 500 million were lost from the grant to road maintenance in 2016. This has been done in order for us to manage good housing and to survive below the expenditure ceiling without having to influence subsidies to municipalities, to welfare activities and to people who, for various reasons, need support, while at the same time coping with the tension caused by migration. Now we have a new situation, and we will soon be presenting a new budget. I would like to be careful to say that we have not announced a major economic investment in road safety. We have said that we want to relaunch the work, which we think has gone a little bit. We think it has been a while since the zero vision was noticed in the political discussion as well. Since the removal of sectoral responsibility, it seems to us that it has been somewhat unclear whether someone has overall responsibility. There have been developments in traffic flows and so on, and I think we need to look at this in a new way. We've picked the low-hanging fruits. It will, of course, be harder and harder to reach the vision. When you start at a low level, it is always easier to achieve big results quickly. This remains an important focus area for this government. In fact, however, no major financial effort has been promised, and Edward Riedl should have noted that. On the other hand, we have promised and delivered major investments in railway maintenance, and we will continue to do so.
i-38835b432a8225b5-151	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what measures I intend to take in the light of the CETA agreement so that Member States, the EU and other actors can always take precedence in the environmental, public health and other important policy areas. Let me begin by stating that the CETA agreement is a good one. It is a broad and in-depth trade agreement that takes into account modern trade patterns. About 99% of tariffs between the EU and Canada will be abolished. With regard to public procurement, the parties have opened up more opportunities to participate in each other's procurements, which will improve for Swedish companies wishing to bid in Canadian procurements. The agreement will not affect the possibility of imposing requirements on environmental and social considerations in procurement. At present, discriminatory requirements against foreign bidders may not be imposed in accordance with Sweden's international obligations. The National Board of Trade has carried out an in-depth impact assessment of the agreement and concludes in the analysis that nothing in the agreement affects the existing possibilities for national action and takes precedence in, inter alia, the field of environment and public health within the framework of EU law and our international commitments, such as WTO law. All imports from Canada must also continue to comply with EU and national rules, such as technical and product standards, sanitary and phytosanitary rules on food safety and plant health, health and safety standards, environmental protection and consumer protection. An analysis of the possible effects of the agreement on the environment, human and animal health and democratic decision-making is included as part of the Government's final analysis of the agreement. It should be noted that the issue of classification of fuel extracted from Canadian oil sands is not linked to CETA. This is an issue that Canada has been pursuing for many years, regardless of the negotiations on a trade agreement. There is nothing in CETA that forces the EU to act in this area.
i-38835b432a8225b5-156	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Trade for the answer to my interpellation. After all, we are in a situation where the world may more than ever need forerunners, progressive countries that go ahead. This applies not least to the environment. We have had a warm and nice summer, but there will be some smok in the cup when you think that July was the warmest month ever. In recent years, heat records have been broken time after time. It is quite clear that we have climate change directly linked to human emissions. We therefore need forerunners who act more quickly and do more in the field of environment and climate change. Like the Minister, I think that trade is a good thing, but trade must not be an end in itself. It must not take precedence, for example, over progressive environmental or public health policies. It is also important to remember in the debate that we are already dealing a lot with North America, and we shall continue to do so. Of course, the tariffs and tariffs that may stand in the way of continued trade will try to remove them. What Ann Linde does not say, however, is that the CETA agreement with Canada and the so-called TTIP agreement with the US are also investment agreements. These are not simple trade agreements; they are comprehensive agreements covering most areas. CETA and TTIP will be the EU's most comprehensive agreement ever negotiated. When I say the investor's agreement, I want to dwell on this, because it is perhaps the most controversial part of the CETA agreement. An investor's agreement aims to provide the investor, i.e. the company, with some form of guarantee. In this case, these are guarantees against being unfair or unfairly treated or expropriated, that is, profits or money should be taken from the company. This may sound reasonable, but in practice it is difficult to define the border between when a country is legislating progressively and when a company considers itself entitled to go to court. We should remember that companies already have the opportunity today to use the ordinary legal system. But with CETA, and also with the TTIP agreement with the US, it will be a separate and extraordinary legal system in which companies – notably, only companies – will be able to sue states if they feel unfairly treated. This already exists in several other agreements. For example, the NAFTA agreement between the US, Mexico and Canada has such investment guarantees. Canada as a country has been sued a number of times by large companies, not least in the environmental field. Our Swedish Vattenfall has also sued Germany with reference to an investment agreement due to Germany's, in my opinion, far-reaching and good environmental policy. I would like to ask the Minister for Trade: why should we have an extraordinary legal system for the big companies? Doesn't it work pretty well the way it does now? Is there not a risk that the CETA agreement may impose a restraint on progressive environmental policies and other policies?
i-38835b432a8225b5-164	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm raised both environmental and investment issues. Since we have the opportunity to speak several times, I will start with the investment agreements and return to Jens Holm's other questions in future speeches. First of all, I would like to state that investment protection agreements are certainly not new. Sweden already has 65 bilateral investment protection agreements, and we have had them since the 1950s. So it is not something new that is being created, but it has existed all along. The good thing about CETA is that it is now being modernised. Where problems have been identified, restrictions are now being placed on the possibility of using contracts for unfair lawsuits. Moreover, there are no mass lawsuits by Canadian companies. I have the numbers here and can gladly show them to Jens Holm later. It is also not just large companies that are using this opportunity. Many times it is small and medium-sized companies that use the right contained in the investment agreements. Investment protection gives the right to compensation for expropriation, for example. There are also requirements to treat investors fairly and fairly, as well as a mechanism for resolving the disputes investors may have with the host country. Why is this important? Yes, we want to increase investment and provide long-term protection against discrimination and the right to compensation in the event of expropriation. How will this affect Sweden? CETA's investment protection rules do not provide companies with protection that does not already exist in Sweden today. This confirms the Kommerskollegium in its analysis. One example is particularly interesting, namely when Barsebäck was closed. In fact, the Riksdag decided that compensation should be paid to the owner company. It was a partly German company. Jens Holm referred to Vattenfall as an example, and it is the same thing but in reverse. It is also clear in the agreement that all states will have the right to regulate and legislate in order to achieve legitimate public interests, such as the environment and health. There will be no difference with this investment protection agreement. In addition, a clarification has been made, as a novelty, to what it was like before. An investor cannot expect legislation to remain unchanged. This also applies if the amendment of the law would have a negative impact on investors' profit expectations. I think it's strange that Jens Holm and others who think that he doesn't see that this is something that actually limits the possibilities of suing for the sake of suing. It's only possible when it's really justified. I think that we should be more positive rather than negative about this.
i-38835b432a8225b5-175	Mr President, I would like to In my turn, I would like to put the same question to the Social Democrat Ann Linde. I do not understand how one can represent a party that is progressive and has high tails on issues relating to the environment, public health, workers' rights and so on and think that such a comprehensive investment and trade agreement is only good. Let me respond to some of the points raised by the Minister for Trade. She leans very much against the report I show here. It is a quick report that our Trade Authority, Kommerskollegium, has written together this summer. They had a month to do this, and they turned to four referrals. One of them was the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which wrote back in a five - page submission. It was just a lot of new questions. For example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency asks whether the CETA agreement will not interpret EU environmental rules as hidden barriers to trade. They also ask whether there is no risk of pre-existing countries being sued by multinationals and whether there is no risk of a cooling effect on legislative work that could have a negative impact on environmental work. There are three concrete questions to which the Kommerskollegium does not answer in its report, and I think these are perfectly legitimate questions that are raised. Ann Linde says that investment protection is not new. It is not, but what we are now seeing around the world is that big companies are increasingly using investment protection to sue states. Note: only companies can sue states. The states can't sue the corporations back. I would like to ask Minister for Trade Ann Linde: What is wrong with our Swedish courts? What is wrong with the Canadian courts or the European Court of Justice? It is quite well-functioning rule of law where these issues can be dealt with. In the case of Vattenfall, for example, I wonder why it did not run the process in Germany when it was about compensation for the decommissioning of nuclear power. I am also thinking of when Germany introduced new and tougher requirements for discharges from Vattenfall's coal power plant in Moorburg, Hamburg. If you want compensation for this, why is this not being pursued in Germany? Why go to a completely closed dispute resolution mechanism in Washington and make a bid for 40 billion dollars? I honestly think it's a bad way, and I don't understand it. I want an answer from Ann Linde: What is wrong with the ordinary justice system? Why should we create a parallel entity for big business? I would also like to ask Ann Linde another question. In CETA and also in the agreement with the US, TTIP, there are proposals for a so-called regulatory cooperation. One should set up a forum where among other representatives from companies should sit and be able to think about future legislative proposals. Here I think, just as the Swedish Chemicals Agency writes in its submission to the report from the National Board of Trade: Is there not a risk that environmental work and chemical work will be delayed when all new legislative proposals have to pass through such a forum? Could Ann Linde here and now confirm that the big companies will have a place in the so-called Regulatory Cooperation Forum? If you introduce this kind of overcoat to the legislation, I am afraid that there will be a risk of paralyzing by analyzing, as they say in the United States and Canada. Does Ann Linde not share my view that there is a risk that progressive work will be suppressed?
i-38835b432a8225b5-183	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm wonders how we Social Democrats can think that trade agreements are good. That is the heart of our politics! It is about creating more jobs and getting people out of unemployment. There aren't many things we can do that matter more if we don't just want government paid jobs. It is about increasing trade so that companies can hire people. In this way, we increase the number of jobs and get more tax revenue that we can use for welfare and so on. I find it incomprehensible that one does not understand that this is some kind of heart issue for Social Democrats and has been so for decades – almost ever since we were formed. At the same time, it is self-evident for the government to stand up for workers' rights, for the environment, for health and for democratic space. As I said earlier, we believe that this agreement improves, and does not impair, these opportunities. For example, on the concrete issue of cooling effects, a rather fundamental review is being carried out. It is not just about these pages in the present Kommerskollegium's letter, but in the past they have carried out a major investigation into precisely the protection of investment referred to in this study. There they say that there is so much consistency between protection in Swedish legislation and in CETA that there is little reason to believe that CETA would lead to a so-called cooling effect, i.e. that in Sweden you choose not to adopt a particular law just because you are afraid that it would conflict with CETA. I know the way the Left keeps talking about big companies. However, the last settled disputes we have looked at with regard to investment protection agreements are, for example, newsstands in Romania, a glass factory in Venezuela and coffee and nut farms in Zimbabwe, which have not been paid for their products. They have then turned to an arbitration panel. When the arbitration panels were set up, the intention was to achieve a relatively simple way instead of being forced into expensive, costly and difficult litigation in the courts. The best known for such arbitration is the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. It is even written in several agreements that it is the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce that will appoint an arbitration panel. So we have a long tradition in this area, and we are good at this. It is a system that works, and which has worked for decades, but which now through CETA and TTIP places a little more restrictions on when companies can use it. This also applies to the newsstand owner in Romania.
i-38835b432a8225b5-187	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Social Democrats Ann Linde whether she really thinks it is reasonable that the US and Barack Obama should be sued for the equivalent of SEK 100 billion for environmental reasons to stop the construction of an oil pipeline – Keystone XL? Does Ann Linde not think that a state in Canada should be able to ban fracturing, i.e. that it blows up gas from the bedrock, which has a terrible environmental impact? Does not the Social Democrat Ann Linde think that Vattenfall should go to the German judicial system and pursue its question there if you consider yourself ill-treated? I note that UNCTAD has reviewed the number of disputes between investors and states. You can see that the number of lawsuits from the big companies is increasing. We can also see that the companies have won or that there has been a conciliation in 60% of recent cases. The states do not win in the majority of cases. There are many uncertainties in the CETA agreement. I have not had time to refer to the precautionary principle. Perhaps you can confirm this here and now, Ann Linde: The precautionary principle as we are used to looking at it in Sweden, which is also the basis of European legislation, not least environmental legislation, is not even included in the CETA agreement. You invent a new precautionary principle that you think is more appropriate. What happens when the different principles stand against each other? It is not we who will decide it, but it will be decided in a separate court where only the big companies are allowed to sue. International trade is great; we are really going to have more of it. But when you go so far as to give the big companies special investor protection, I think it has gone too far.
i-38835b432a8225b5-191	Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by putting CETA into a wider context. The government knows that development and security go hand in hand. In several countries around the world, people are put on a bare hill. They lose their jobs because of global competition and therefore target frustration against free trade. But the basic problem is lack of security, not trade and development. Sweden is doing well. We have low unemployment, and the number of employed persons has increased by 120 000 since 2014. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. But there are still many who need to get a job to go to. We want Europe's lowest unemployment. And for new jobs to be created, trade is needed. That is why we are pushing trade issues so hard. At the same time, of course, the government is pursuing a policy of greater security and social justice. It is only when people feel safe that they dare to go from old, outmoded jobs to new ones. It is obvious for us to stand up for workers' rights, the environment, human health and democratic space. I try to pursue trade policy in such a way that security and development will go hand in hand. Responsibility must be taken for the effects of global competition. I think that is a Social Democratic policy, and we will continue to do so. As a final comment on the range of issues relating to the precautionary principle, I would like to say that it is not explicitly mentioned because it is already included in the EU's key legislative act in the area of food. It is therefore considered to be an integral part of the Agreement. This was done in a WTO review. So the precautionary principle is there. I want to thank Jens Holm. It's great to have more discussion about free trade. I hope to return and discuss more with Jens Holm.
