i-Rgp2B5zyJLkjT5FFgqbBSL	Mr President and Members of the Swedish Parliament. There is every reason for us to reflect on what has happened. Europe has again suffered two terrorist acts. They are terrible, disgusting, cowardly and pitiful acts against people in their daily lives. Today, our hearts in Brussels are with friends and colleagues, with relatives who are grieving or worried about someone they love and, above all, with people who today have lost their lives or are injured. The Government's crisis organisation monitors the situation minute by minute. We work actively to help Swedes on the ground, and the Swedish police increase their presence at Swedish airports. We have expressed our support to the Belgian people and to the Belgian Government. If Belgium asks for help, we will, of course, provide appropriate assistance. Brussels has an important role to play in Europe. The city is the seat of many of the institutions of the European Union. It is also a home and a workplace for many Swedes. Brussels has become a common European land. What is being attacked today is a united and democratic Europe, and it is a united, united and democratic Europe that can and must fight back. The security situation in Europe and the rest of the world needs to be looked at very seriously. On 13 March, an attack took place in Ankara, which has currently resulted in 37 deaths and 125 injuries. Yesterday, the EU Mission to EUTM in Mali was also attacked. Many cities still suffer from terrible terrorist attacks. Even our own Stockholm was subjected to a suicide attack in 2010. In it, however, only the perpetrator himself was killed. Terrorism creates anxiety and despair that risks paralyzing societies. If terrorism is not to achieve its objectives of solitude and division, we, as champions of democracy, must do what is necessary to respond to and neutralize this terrible threat. There is a strong consensus in Europe and in the European Union that we must never and never rest in the work against terrorism. I also feel a great deal of support for this work in this Chamber. The Government's national strategy against terrorism, which is aimed at preventing, aggravating and preventing terrorism, is now being implemented thanks to a broad majority in the Swedish parliament. We are fighting terrorist war travel, the misuse of passports, illegal weapons and the financing of terrorism. We increase the Police Authority's response capacity, develop new tools in the work against terrorism and strengthen the public Sweden's preventive work against radicalisation and recruitment. The fight against terrorism requires both horizontal and direct action. The overall ones lie in our defence of our democratic model of society and in our long-term work against the root causes of terrorism. The direct result is that we, as a country, are prepared to strike down hard and absolutely against those who have the sole aim of spreading terror and destruction. Today's attack shows that even prepared communities may be affected. But we have a fundamental duty as elected representatives to do everything we can to resist this, and we shall do so. I would therefore like to thank you all for your involvement in this work. It's extremely important. We fight about quite a few things in this room, but here we agree on the importance of the democratic and open Sweden that we shall stand up for and defend.
i-JKuhWi2YfMmSidaXq7jJ2d	Mr President, I would like to I shall now turn to the European Council's report on 17 and 18 March. The Council focused on the refugee crisis. The discussion was almost exclusively about cooperation between the EU and Turkey. In addition, the EU's joint actions in this area were concerned. In addition, there was a discussion on jobs, growth and competitiveness. The conclusions also included some other issues; I am thinking of energy and climate. As regards cooperation between the EU and Turkey, an agreement was reached. I hope that this agreement will contribute to a long-term solution to the refugee problem. However, I would like to emphasise that this is far from the only solution. Much work remains to be done before we have a fairer share of responsibility in the European Union. The aim is to put an end to the uncontrolled and very dangerous flight across this part of the Mediterranean that has cost so many lives and to move on to orderly and secure migration by breaking business models of human trafficking between Turkey and the EU. For the government, it has been particularly important in these negotiations to respect EU and international law. It is my assessment that an agreed one does just that. The right to seek asylum and the individual examination are important examples of this. The final agreement with Turkey contains stricter wordings compared to the previous draft. It is also important that the agreement includes a clear commitment on the part of Turkey that migrants returning to the country should be protected in accordance with the relevant international standards and that the principle of non-refoulement should be respected. People on the run must be offered protection wherever they come from. The agreement means that from Sunday onwards all new so-called irregular migrants arriving in the Greek islands from Turkey will be sent back to Turkey. It is, of course, a major challenge to make it work in practice. In addition to the two main players Greece and Turkey, it is important that the EU Member States make the best contribution, and Sweden is also in favour of making a positive contribution. The Police Authority and the Kustvakan have already offered human and material resources to Frontex. The Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness is preparing for action, and the Swedish Migration Agency is currently reviewing how to contribute. The conditions for providing additional resources are continuously analysed. The UNHCR will also be involved in the implementation, which is a good thing given the organisation's extensive and broad experience of acting in large refugee flows. This has been actively pursued by the government. With regard to the issue of additional support for Syrian refugees, the agreement provides for an additional EUR 3 billion for the EU until the end of 2018, provided that Turkey honours its commitments. With regard to the first EUR 3 billion of aid, the EU and Turkey will jointly draw up, within a week, a list of concrete projects in the areas of health, education, infrastructure and food. The agreement represents a clear commitment on the part of the EU to receive up to 18 000 refugees in a resettlement programme with Turkey. If necessary, this figure could be increased to another 54 000 in a reserve in the EU's redeployment system. Sweden receives quota refugees each year through the UNHCR resettlement system. Some of these places can go to resettled Syrian refugees from Turkey, but this is done in cooperation with UNHCR. Therefore, it is not possible to say exactly what number this can be. On the other hand, the government is not prepared to go ahead and now increase the number of quota refugees within the framework of the EU's voluntary resettlement programme. Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility in comparison with other EU countries, and in the autumn we received a reception that was not sustainable. Now it is time for Sweden to have a breathing room. Now it is time for other countries to shoulder their responsibilities. Mr President, I would like to The agreement shall be evaluated on an ongoing basis in order to ensure the progressive implementation of the measures in accordance with EU and international law and their achievement. This is good and something the government has worked for. I think that the negotiations both within the European Union and with Turkey have been constructive. As far as Turkey is concerned, the agreement aims to lift the visa requirements from 30 June this year. However, I would like to make it clear that a prerequisite for this is that all the established criteria – 72 – should be met by Turkey before it can be considered. Turkey's continued rapprochement with the EU was also affected. In April, the Commission will present a proposal for the opening of Chapter 33 on budgetary and financial matters. Work on preparing further chapter openings will be speeded up. Mr President, I would like to We also discussed how to implement the EU's joint action in the area of migration. Of course, the discussions in that part, as well as the changes made to the text of the conclusions, are strongly influenced by Turkey's discussion, which is reasonable. Great efforts will now be needed to implement the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. We were able to draw an important note from the conclusions, namely that the European Council now expects Turkey to fully respect democracy, comply with the principles of the rule of law and respect fundamental freedoms, including freedom of opinion. On the issues of jobs, growth and competitiveness, I would particularly like to highlight the Swedish initiative to highlight the importance of employment and social issues in EU cooperation. In that part, the conclusions were supported by several Member States, and we were supported by the Commission, which I think is very positive. In the economic field, the European Council adopted conclusions with a view to the implementation by the Member States of the European Semester and what might be called process-related conclusions on the further work on the deepening of EMU and the completion of the internal market. The conclusions also contain wordings on climate and energy, and the need for continued efforts to strengthen the EU's energy security is highlighted. The Commission is invited to present proposals without delay so that the EU can start implementing its commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This, Mr President, was the report back from the meeting.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-31	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his re-report and also agree with his condemnation of the acts of violence in Brussels and, of course, also in the condolences to the Belgian people. It is extremely cowardly to go after people who may be on their way to work or to school – innocent people – by these attacks. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is strong in the condemnations. In the midst of all this, it feels good to stand in Parliament's Chamber – the ultimate and most fundamental of Swedish democracy. Transparency and democracy are something we must fight for every day and never take for granted. With regard to the European Council's re-report, the EU has now reached an agreement with Turkey, and that is a very good thing. It can, at best, stop the smuggling trips across the Mediterranean and the exploitation of people in distress. Hopefully, the agreement means that this has come to an end. It is gratifying that Sweden has pushed and succeeded in obtaining a response to the fact that the measures now being taken are in accordance with international and EU law. It was not obvious from the beginning, and I am very happy that more countries have listened to Sweden. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he views returning refugees now. It is said that it should be in accordance with international law. I understand that not everything has been worked out in the slightest detail, but would the Prime Minister be able to develop how this is to be done under international law? How is it to be monitored that it really happens that way?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-36	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I agree with the very purpose of this, which I think we should bear in mind, namely to stop trafficking in human beings in this part of the Mediterranean so that we do not have a continuation of hundreds of dead people. Sweden has been pushing the question from the outset that international and EU law must be respected – otherwise it will be wrong. With regard to returnees, we received this with individual rights at the end of the agreement. It's a matter of principle. When you come to the EU, you have to be tested individually. There is therefore an individual examination there, and that means that the person who has asylum grounds should have that treatment. At the same time, however, we must put in place a system whereby those who, for example, do not apply for asylum – not everyone does – or those who are not found to have acceptable reasons for getting asylum sent back. The individual trial is there as well as the cooperation with UNHCR. This is not a responsibility for the UNHCR, but it is, of course, a responsibility of Greece and the European Union and what is to be done there. However, the UNHCR is also mentioned in the joint statement as a co-sponsor to discuss how this is to be implemented in order for it to be carried out under international and EU law. Again, I cannot answer in detail, but that is why we wanted the principles that it is under international law and that it is a matter of living up to it. We stood up for the UNHCR to be involved in this. That is why I reported to the European Council last week that I have made contact with the new High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr Grandi, to ensure that we have the same view on this. That's what I can tell you.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-40	Mr President, I would like to What the texts now say is a success for European cooperation. This may be an opening for legal routes for refugees to enter Europe and, as has been said, avoid the degrading and dangerous sailing across the Mediterranean. But then it also wants all countries to assume their responsibilities – a joint and several responsibility – for those refugees who flee for their lives. So far it has been disappointing in the European Union, where a few countries, such as Sweden, have taken very much responsibility. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether there are any joys, some indications that more countries understand how serious the situation is for the people but also for the European Union.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-42	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what you really get to hold on to. The risk also lies with those countries that are currently doing very little or are not taking any responsibility. It may be convenient at the moment to do so, but if we do not manage this together in Europe, there is much at stake for those countries too. However, I would like to note that several countries have once again said that they are prepared to do a part of the redistribution system in the European Union. I am thinking of our Baltic neighbours, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, Portugal and others, so many are expressing this. But, of course, it needs to be 28 taken together to do this. Within the framework of the first 18 000, there is an agreement. It concerns the resettlement system. I can see that it may be a little more complicated if the remaining 54 000 are to be used.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-45	Mr President, I would like to I wish to begin by regretting the terrible events in Brussels today. Our thoughts go to the victims and their relatives. Our task is to continue to stand up for democracy, freedom and openness, for a free, open and democratic Sweden and Europe. Then I would like to return to the report. Every day people die on the run. They are faced with a Europe that has not been able to cope with the refugee crisis. We Moderates therefore welcome the agreement with Turkey. It is necessary to better manage the refugee crisis, but we are concerned about its implementation. We have seen a huge gap between decisions and actual implementation over the past year. Perhaps the worst example of this is that in September the Prime Minister and his colleagues decided to redistribute 160 000 people from Greece and Italy to other EU countries. Today – six months later – not even 1,000 of these have been redistributed. I therefore wonder why the Prime Minister still refuses to use the EU budget as a whip and carrot, to put pressure behind the words, so that it pays to do the right thing and punish itself to do the wrong thing, so that we can move more countries to shoulder their responsibilities. Why isn't the Prime Minister running it? Furthermore, I agree with what the Prime Minister says about the importance of complying with international law. However, this requires on-site infrastructure in Greece. I therefore wonder, Mr President, whether the Prime Minister can say when the Government will announce what aid Sweden will provide to Greece.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-51	Mr President, I would like to What Ulrika Karlsson started with is important, to establish that people are on the run on dangerous roads and die and that is why we are doing this. Implementation is a challenge in several parts. The fact that it will work in the Greek islands is in itself a challenge. That is why it is so important that all 28 Member States also contribute there. To the question why the Prime Minister refuses to use the EU budget. This is because the Prime Minister of Sweden does not have the right of access to the EU budget – it is not within the mandate. I have raised a question that I think is important: is it reasonable for countries that are in Schengen to choose whether or not we will be fully involved? I don't think so. I think it is important to question this. Just as the Swedish Parliament is careful to follow the legal correctness of the matter, it is not possible to do anything in the EU context, for example, with the budget. It's easy to throw something out and say you should do this and that. But I assume that we will comply with the laws and regulations that exist, and then there is a clear limitation. I think bringing this discussion up was the right thing to do. Of course, it cannot in the long run be the case that some say: What is a little more difficult and a little more challenging is what the rest of you are doing, so we are just doing what is easy and positive. It's not okay, in my opinion. But the moment I say it, I intend to keep to the established rules and laws that exist.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-57	Mr President, I would like to It was good that the Prime Minister made a correction at the end, because the Prime Minister actually has the right to pursue matters within the Union, to push the issue of the budget, so that more countries do more, so that it pays to do the right thing and costs to do the wrong thing. I would like to come back to my question on aid to Greece. In order to implement the implementation of international law, for everyone's right to have their asylum application examined and overtested, an infrastructure is required on the ground in Greece, for example in the form of coastguards, interpreters, migration experts and judges. I wonder: What will Sweden provide? When will the government announce what Sweden will provide?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-60	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Government will announce this as soon as we have first received a clear message from Greece about what is needed there. There is no point in sending either persons or material resources if it is not coordinated. It is important that the recipients say: This is what we need! This, in turn, should be well distributed among the Member States. We have already stated – I also said this in my introduction – that we from various authorities, such as the Migration Agency and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, are prepared to assist in both personal needs and material needs. But first we want to find out what Greece needs and where Sweden's part is best used.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-62	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the reporting back and also for the words about what has happened in Brussels today. My thoughts and those of my party, too, obviously go to those affected in Brussels and their relatives. What has happened is terrible and shows that we have very big problems in our continent. It is important that it does not stop at words now, but that we act properly and take the threat of terrorism very seriously. In fact, the question is not whether but when this can happen in our own country on this scale. It is important for the government to take concrete measures, more repressive measures. It is important not to let the terrorists into our country and into our Europe and to fight against those who already exist here. With regard to the last European Council summit, the Swedish Democrats are very critical of the agreement that has now been concluded with Turkey. Why should the EU pay Turkey and provide visa facilitation for something that it should have done anyway? After all, there has already been a readmission agreement that has been ratified and clear. Co-dealing with asylum seekers is apparently the new melody from Brussels. Unfortunately, the fact that blackmail works against the EU is now a fact. There is also a risk that Turkey will use visa facilitation to get rid of unpleasant individuals by repatriating them to Europe. Giving more than 70 million citizens from a more or less Islamic country almost free passage to Europe can never be good, especially when there are links to terrorism and IS from Turkey. This risks becoming a Trojan horse. Turkey is a country with great corruption and a great lack of democracy, with the repression of minorities and major conflicts with several neighbouring countries in both Europe and the Middle East and with a land area that is not even on our continent.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-68	Mr President, I would like to I hear that the Swedish Democrats are critical. You're allowed to be. However, I never hear an alternative solution. We have a very serious problem when only over 400 people have died in these seas this year. We need to put an end to it. The question always comes back to us why we are paying Turkey. Let me first draw attention to the fact that Turkey today probably has up to 3 million refugees inside it and has had quite a few for a long time. It is not the case that we are paying EUR 3 billion into the Turkish treasury. I have said this so many times that it should soon attach. These are very concrete projects to be identified. They're about to touch the refugees. They will support refugees and help those who live in difficult conditions to work and to provide training and, of course, to manage daily subsistence, not least food. That is what the money is intended for. The resources that the EU devotes here go to refugees inside Turkey and not to the Turkish treasury. It's a misunderstanding, perhaps consciously, to say that it's now 70 million people who can only go in here. In order to be eligible for visa-free status at all, Turkey shall fulfil 72 criteria. All these criteria shall be met. Then that could be the decision on visa-freeness. There's still a little bit to go. It is now up to Turkey. It is also made very clear in this joint statement that it is now Turkey that is allowed to fulfil its part and show that it has come to the point where the Commission can propose this – otherwise there will be no question of it. All criteria must be met. Then there may be a question of visa waiver.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-72	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister speaks of constructiveness. Constructiveness could in this case be, for example, that the readmission agreement already in place should be implemented earlier. Constructiveness could be using more pushbacks. These boats were to be forfeited, and the signal policy for which the Swedish Government and, not least, the Prime Minister were responsible, as well as countries such as Germany and Austria, would cease. It could also be constructive not to actually use silk mittens against a country which has widespread corruption, which has a lack of democracy and which has now allowed the EU to be held hostage and which has blackmailed the EU on this issue. Instead of fighting hard, the government and the European Union are flat. They have chickened out, they have allowed Turkey to hold Europe hostage and they have laid flat. It is shameful and regrettable. We will see what this agreement will lead to in practice.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-74	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to say that you should do something and kill the smuggling. That is exactly what is being done now. We have to kill this business model, that it pays smugglers to charge and send people with a dangerous boat that unfortunately often capsizes. This year alone, nearly 500 people have died. That is what we need to stop, and that is what this is aiming for. It is a readmission that is currently taking place, from a very uncertain and dangerous system in which people flee and risk their lives to an orderly reception of refugees between Turkey and the EU. That is what all of this is aimed at. In my opinion, this is not a solution to this particular situation. It may be the beginning of a long-term solution, that we are increasingly moving towards orderly migration where people do not have to make these dangerous journeys. But I would guess that the Swedish Democrats are not so strong for such migration.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-77	Mr President, I would like to Many of us today have been concerned about loved ones in Brussels. Then we can only imagine the fear that comes when you have gunfire around you or the horror that it entails when you have bombs around you. Then we can imagine the despair of this happening repeatedly week after week. Then we begin to see the reality from which many people are fleeing. It is our responsibility to help people escape. But our societies cannot escape. We shall stand up and defend the open and free society, a society that gives people free choice to live the life that they want to live. It is this society that terrorists are afraid of. It is this society that we must defend and not allow Europe to fall into surveillance, war and police state. Then we've really lost. Mr President, the Prime Minister. As far as reporting is concerned, I would like to ask you a question. I think that Sweden really did something good, and I followed the process all the way. We have made it clear that the UNHCR should monitor, that it should be individual right, that it should be able to appeal and that Turkey should also provide protection to other new groups. But this stands and falls by the fact that Turkey is serious about the promises they have made. I know we're gonna have monthly follow-ups. Did the Prime Minister think that Turkey took these promises seriously? They have recently taken over newspapers, bombed their own citizens, threatened to prosecute politicians who are opponents and so on. Is Turkey serious? Does this have a chance to succeed?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-81	Mr President, I would like to We are in complete agreement, Carl Schlyter, with regard to the takeover of newspapers and so on. We have made that very clear. We have also done so in the European Council's own conclusions, in which we make very clear demands that Turkey must live up to democracy, freedom of opinion and so on. I am not concluding an agreement with a counterpart whom I then say absolutely will not live up to this. There are no guarantees. No one can leave that. But I believe that there is a serious ambition to be able to live up to this. It is, of course, also linked to the discussion of new chapters for EU membership negotiations, for visa-freeness and so on. Here, then, there are two parties who really have something to get out of such an agreement. My assessment is that it is clear that both parties want to comply with the agreement. On the other hand, it is quite obvious that there are many difficulties and many challenges. Dealing with this in practical terms is no small logistical exercise. It's huge. During the journey, it will surely be made wrong. That is absolutely not to be excluded. But my assessment is that both parties want to live up to this agreement and ensure that we get away from dangerous and inhumane trafficking in human beings and get an orderly migration between Turkey and the EU.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-85	Mr President, I would like to At first it felt rather lonely to fight for all-natural things on which the EU and international law are based. In time, we got it into the conclusions, and now it is clear what is going on. Has there been a reversal among more countries? Because we will never be able to monitor human rights alone. We now have the support of the UNHCR and we have the support of the Commission. But we also need political support from the other countries to put pressure on Turkey if this does not work as planned. Then I very much hope that more countries will shoulder their responsibilities. The reality from which people are fleeing is so terrible that the EU must also help directly by being able to deal with asylum applications in a reasonable manner. I therefore hope that this is a step in the right direction and that this process can now continue with more proposals from the Commission.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-88	Mr President, I would like to There was much more discussion about EU and international law this time, given the way things looked last Monday. Sweden was the driving force. It's just as well to be honest and say what it was. We got these writings, and it was a very important bottom plate. At that time, the mandate of President Tusk of the European Council, precisely on the basis of international law, was EU law. The principles for this are also being developed from this point of view. There were more people asking questions about it. There is increased commitment and a set-up for this to be done in such a way that we can look the outside world in the eye and say that we are doing the best we can. As Mr Schlyter points out, I also believe that it is a certain certainty that the UNHCR is involved in this process and has a watchful eye over it. But they cannot take responsibility for this. We and Greece must do so.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-91	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by very much agreeing with the Prime Minister's condemnation of the actions that have taken place in Brussels today. Like many others, I would like to give a thought to the victims and relatives who have been affected by the terrible things that have happened there. Mr President, I would like to That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to go back to reporting. In the EU, the options are often not between a good solution and a bad one. There is often a difference between having a common policy and having no policy at all. I think it would be particularly unfortunate not to have a common policy in this area. Someone may wonder why I think so. I am afraid that Europe is in a situation where there is a real danger that we will have even more barbed wire, even more border guards and even more police officers between our Member States and at our external borders. It is also obvious that Schengen and perhaps even the European Union are facing a breakdown if we do not have a common policy in this area. That is why it is important, I say, that the Prime Minister has managed to find a common solution with his colleagues. But the proposal that was on the table was not a wish proposal on my part, on the part of the Center Party or – I think – on the part of Sweden. I said repeatedly during our consultations that we expect the Prime Minister to do his utmost to improve what was on our tables as far as possible. Having said that, I made three submissions to the Prime Minister during our consultations. Among other things, I wondered whether it is possible to specify further legal paths. I wonder what happened with these contributions and how the Prime Minister could influence and improve the agreement that was on our table.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-96	Mr President, I would like to As far as the initial reasoning is concerned, I think that is exactly the way it is. There are more people who need to see that you do not go from Sweden down to the EU and decide. It is a matter of finding a common solution, and if we do not find one, we do not have a common policy. Sweden does not decide for itself. I firmly believe that this is an issue that we must resolve together. It is not possible for individual countries to take responsibility for this, but we must find a solution for 28 Member States. We'll have to do the best we can from there. It is not a wish proposal, but I would say that with the wording we received – not least on international law – it is as far as we could go. We also reinforced the wording of, for example, the individual right of this statement compared to what we had before. The practical handling of this remains, and I want to be very open and clear about the fact that this poses huge challenges. It is a hugely difficult task and a hugely difficult exercise to get it in place that must be in place. I must apologise, Mr President, for the three contributions made by Mr Erlandsson, I must ask him to repeat in his next speech. I don't have them in my head. I'm sorry, Eskil Erlandsson, but I don't have them in my head. I'd like to hear them now.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-99	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, what I sent was about the possibility of having more legal ways into the EU specified and how they could be strengthened. Secondly, it was a wish to have a distribution mechanism based, for example, on percentages between Member States, so that we do not just have a number calculation. Thirdly, it was a question of Turkish membership of our Union being conditional on it meeting the Copenhagen criteria. I wanted that included in the agreement that has now been concluded.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-100	Mr President, I would like to As far as Turkish membership is concerned, it follows exactly the same criteria that apply to all other discussions, and that is, in my view, what Mr Erlandsson is expressing. With regard to the allocation mechanism and how this is to be done – if it is what we should have in the longer term – the Commission will come back later on with how to achieve a system that is sustainable for the whole of Europe. As far as the allocation mechanism in this particular agreement with Turkey is concerned, it is only based on the 18 000 resettlement programmes agreed by the EU. It follows its logic. The 54 000 are still based on a voluntary approach, which shows that we still have some work to do to achieve it. As far as the specification of legal routes is concerned, this is a first part. We did not have a discussion about how it will develop later, but now the EU – Turkey – was dealt with. Later this spring the discussion of more legal ways will come back.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-103	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you, Stefan Löfven, for your words of compassion for the victims of the terrorist attacks in Brussels and for your clarity and determination in combating terrorism. We disagree very much in this House, but we stand together and agree on this. The agreement with Turkey is based on the EU returning refugees to a country that is not safe for people on the run. There is also a great gap between the words of the documents adopted and the actual reality. Yes, it says in the documents that it should be an individual examination-- that's right. At the same time, Greece sees Turkey as a safe third country for people on the run, which means that, despite this individual trial, refugees can be sent back to Turkey on a routine basis. There are clear wordings about democracy and human rights in Turkey, but on the same weekend that the agreement entered into force, people were beaten in the streets of Turkey for celebrating the Kurdish New Year. Unison from EU leaders is being said about tackling the smuggling of refugees, and it is absolutely crucial to do so. At the same time, we know that people are sitting in Turkey today and are thinking about whether to go to Libya and take an even more difficult and dangerous road to Europe. There is the problem of this agreement: the difference between words and reality. Amnesty has condemned the deal. So have Doctors Without Borders. The UNHCR has requested clarification and expressed doubts about certain elements. The work of the refugee camp where those to be deported are withdrawn. M an does not work with people who are incarcerated. If the UNHCR were to criticise the agreement, which we do not know yet, will the Prime Minister act in order to change circumstances in order to respect the recommendations of the UN agencies in the area of refugees?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-107	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that there are conditions in Turkey that we have clearly criticised. That's it. However, the fact remains that there are currently almost 3 million refugees in Turkey. What is happening now is that we are going to put an end to people fleeing in the most dangerous and inhumane ways where smugglers charge – and make money from people dying. We are going to get over to a system where people in more orderly forms can leave Turkey and come to Europe without having to risk their lives. That is the focus of this. Of course, no one can guarantee that new routes will not occur. We know that today there are plenty of people in Libya who may also be waiting to make a trip. It's a deadly journey, but they might take that risk. We can never ignore the fact that there is such a risk. What we are focusing on here and now, however, is precisely this. We can't help but do something here just because something can happen somewhere else. I believe that it is our job to stop this disgusting trafficking in human beings and come into a different order. Of course, the UN HCR cannot itself stamp this, but they are involved in the discussion. They want in, because they want this to work. I think that is very important, and this applies not only to what is happening on the Greek side but also – not least – to what is happening on the Turkish side. They have long been engaged in a dialogue with the Turkish authorities on how to have an orderly migration. As provided for in the Agreement, it shall also be monitored every month. Then let us take the problems that may arise one by one, and if so, see what may need to be done.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-110	Mr President, I would like to If it had been the case that this was the manslaughter of the smuggling of human beings, I would have been very happy today, but I think the smuggling will be more dangerous and more expensive. People will be more desperate. There is an obvious risk of this happening. Let's see. I hope I'm wrong. The situation in Turkey is deteriorating quite dramatically. This has been the case for several months now. The main Turkish opposition party, the Left party HDP, is systematically persecuted by Turkish state power. It is now threatening to waive immunity in order to prevent the party's parliamentarians from carrying out their work. That would be a direct starting point against what remains of democracy in Turkey. What's your message to Erdo中an, Prime Minister? What do you want to say to him about HDP and respecting the elected representatives in the Turkish Parliament and not hindering them in their democratic political work?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-112	Mr President, I would like to It is not only the message of the State but of the European Union as a whole to Turkey that we have written in our conclusions, that Turkey should respect democracy, human rights and freedoms, and not least freedom of opinion. That is the EU's firm view, and that is why it is expressed in the conclusions. That's where we're all set. No, it is not, of course, the manslaughter of human trafficking. We realise that this is not the only solution, but it is an important piece of the puzzle in order to get away from the smuggling of human beings. In my opinion, it is not possible to wait for the perfect solution and therefore do nothing. We owe it to us to do what we can. Now we have an opportunity to try this, and then we will do it in agreement with Turkey. But then it is a great job to bring peace and reasonable conditions to Syria, Lebanon and Jordan so that people can live decent lives. I think it's a very important task.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-115	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for reporting back! I don't think I was the only one today who started the day by first being shocked and then being sad. Now I have to say that I am truly cursed and even more motivated than ever to work for more people, all people, to have the opportunity to live in a free and democratic country. What we have seen, most recently in Belgium – unfortunately, it may be more – is also linked to the refugee crisis, because many of these people are fleeing terror and war. Sweden does not need to be ashamed of what we have done so far. But most people in the EU-28 should actually be ashamed of themselves. Nevertheless, it is a bit like Bishop Brask that I am standing here today, because, of course, the agreement signed should never have had to see the light of day if the EU-28 had divided the refugee flows that are now coming. It should have been a common, humane and generous asylum policy. We should have had legal ways in. But we couldn't get that – I'm fully aware of it – and the alternative of giving up is not on the map. The agreement with Turkey is problematic for two reasons, as has been the case several times with my colleagues: firstly, because there is a legitimate concern that it does not meet the commitments it has now taken on and, secondly, because we are constantly seeing a backward trend in the area of human rights and freedom of expression in Turkey. That is why the Liberals called for Turkey to act in practice as a safe country of asylum, that is, to comply with all the commitments, and for there to be no fast track to the EU or visa liberalisation as a thank-you for being where they do geographically. But if Turkey does not live up to the commitments, Prime Minister, what happens then? We know there will be no visa liberalisation, and that is okay. But is the Prime Minister prepared to terminate the agreement in the event of human rights violations?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-120	Mr President, I would like to The agreement will be reviewed at regular intervals, once a month, so that we can keep an eye on the progress that is being made and that it works in a reasonable manner. We will have to acknowledge that during the course of the journey there will be mistakes and things that are not perfect. Let us follow this month by month and draw conclusions month by month on what may need to be done. The whole starting point, not least from the Swedish side, has been that international and EU law should be respected. We're the ones who got that writing in. It was we who pushed that this is how the implementation must be done, and we have received increasingly broad support for that. Several people are talking about this now, and I am convinced that many people see it as a necessity that this must be done under international law. There may be suspicion as to whether Turkey will live up to this. But I assume, once again, that both parties live up to the just signed agreement. Otherwise, it will be very visible in the review of the agreement. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, It is incredibly clear that this applies to the criteria that apply to everyone else. If visa-free travel is to take place, 72 criteria are to be met. And it is far from 72 criteria that are met, so now it is very urgent for Turkey to do so so that the Commission can come forward with a proposal later this year. However, it is up to Turkey to prove that it is ripe for such a visa-free regime. With these words, I think I have answered Tina Acketoft's questions.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-125	Mr President, I would like to I hope, of course, like the Prime Minister, that Turkey will take this opportunity to really show that it wants to be part of the European Union. Then we must also meet the Copenhagen criteria that we have set ourselves. If the whole of Europe 28 is not able to find a solution to this, I think my favourite project, the European Union, is about to collapse, not just for me as an ideal image, but for the whole world. The EU statement says that this is a temporary and extraordinary measure, and I very much hope that it is. The Secretary of State said in a timely speech: 18 000 now to be resettled, we may be able to resolve, but reaching 54 000 will be a problem. Then the question immediately opens up: what is the way to a long-term solution to this? What does the Prime Minister intend to do from now on to bring about a common, comprehensive and long-term asylum programme in the EU?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-128	Mr President, I would like to As far as a long-term programme is concerned, the Commission should come back to this. And we, if any, have pushed precisely that all 28 Member States have to shoulder their responsibilities. Of course, I share the view that we should not go too far, but if we fail to do so, the European Union has very big problems. That is why I think it would be good if all of us in this House, in our contacts out there in Europe, were to point this out in our European organisations, at least those of us who want the European Union to work and become stronger. We need to find a solution. So far, my assessment is that the strongest argument against those countries that do not want to do anything is that they never really get away with it. They may feel comfortable doing nothing right now, but they are also affected when the EU is not working and Schengen would collapse. We have to keep that flag high. As far as the 54 000 are concerned, it is based on the previous voluntary commitment. So it is important to lie on and not think that it is easy.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-131	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Of course, I agree with the Prime Minister's sympathy with the victims of today's attacks in Brussels. Back to the summit report. We Christian Democrats are cautiously in favour of the EU summit agreement with Turkey in dealing with the refugee crisis. Above all, opening up legal ways into the EU, so that refugees do not have to risk their lives on the Mediterranean, is something that we have been pushing for a long time. The government has wavered a little in this discussion and has said one moment that it is good if you can apply for a visa outside and the other moment is not. But the main thing is that we can now put away the feet of the traffickers and try to make sure that the people who come here, also through UNHCR, are the most vulnerable, as it says in the agreement. I think it is very good that it is not only those who can afford to pay traffickers, but that it is those who are most vulnerable who can come here. We have also incorporated EU and international law into the agreement, and that is a good thing. One reason why refugees want to leave Turkey for Europe is that they have not received a work permit and have not received schooling and health care. Turkey is now receiving EUR 3 billion from the EU, of which Sweden has contributed EUR 600 million, to help refugees. Does the Prime Minister think that it is possible to guarantee that the funds will come to health care and schooling for children? What are the Prime Minister's demands to pay out the additional EUR 3 billion that Turkey wants? Is the Prime Minister's assessment that the allocation of refugee quotas can be implemented within a reasonable time?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-136	Mr President, I would like to First of all, with regard to work permits, Turkey is changing its rules and has already introduced some changes to make it easier for refugees to work in Turkey. As far as the funds are concerned, it is not the case, as I said earlier, that they are paid into a cash register and then you see what it is going to be. If it has to do with work, school, education, food or what it can be to do, concrete projects should be identified, costed, started and followed up. It has been my belief that here it is not only to pour money into the treasury, but to benefit the refugees. That is also what Prime Minister Davuto 中 lu says. This is not money for Turkey. This is money for refugees who are in a very difficult situation. If we can make it easier for them in this very difficult situation, we shall do so. I'll be proud of that help. But it must not be done on any basis. It's supposed to be order and order. If the first 3 billion has been well spent and we see that they are useful, we have said that we are prepared to provide an additional 3 billion by the end of 2018. But if we see that these 3 billion have not been used or have been used incorrectly at any time, that is another matter. So there's a feedback in that we're not just sending out money– they're supposed to have done real good, so the first 3 billion will be evaluated. But again: There is so much need there that it would be very strange if we could not make use of this money.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-141	Mr President, I would like to So what is the Prime Minister's red line? Is it 10, 20, 50 or 100 percent who will get a work permit? I would like to know a little bit about the extent to which Sweden is prepared to pay out the new funds. In fact, it is very unfortunate that we are confusing Turkey's process of accession to the EU with the refugee crisis and that Sweden and the EU are getting into a vise with Turkey's demands. Turkey is tying the EU in the refugee crisis to move forward with its EU application. I am strongly opposed to this mixture. Another question is how Sweden can continue to press for human rights. We see almost a war that is spreading regionally. What can the Prime Minister do in the EU? Has the Prime Minister perhaps already done something to push for the need to descalate the crisis and the war in Turkey?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-144	Mr President, I would like to As far as the latter is concerned, the Swedish Government has called on the Turkish Government and all the other parties involved to stop fighting and violence and return to political dialogue. There is no other solution to this. There is no red line in 10%, 50% or anything else. Turkey has begun to amend its regulatory framework to enable refugees to work in the country. The funds are set aside to make this easier. These could be concrete projects for jobs to come. We will then follow up on how that money is spent. Are they used in such a good way that we see, for example, that you have the opportunity for work and self-support, for schooling or for food? These projects must be identified, specified and then followed up when they are completed. As for whether or not Turkey is going to tie the EU behind its back, we are allowed to choose: either we believe that we can make a difference here, and then we enter into an agreement, or we do not believe in it.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-147	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I also thank the Prime Minister for the very clear condemnation of the terrible attacks that took place in the morning in Brussels, a condemnation that I naturally agree with. Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on an answer given by the Prime Minister to Mr Erlandsson. The Prime Minister said that it is not only for Sweden to go down to the EU. I think that this wording bears witness to a worrying attitude towards cooperation within the European Union. We are not going down to the EU. Sweden is part of the EU and will have a strong voice in this cooperation. We have also historically had a very strong voice because we have taken the cooperation very seriously. Return to the European Council and its conclusions: Sweden has taken a major responsibility in the refugee crisis. Last year we received about 160 000 asylum seekers in Sweden. It was a big challenge. To ease some of the pressure in Sweden, the government applied for the possibility of redistributing some of these asylum seekers. Now it is clear that there will be no redistribution from Sweden to other Member States. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: How will Sweden deal with the fact that any redistribution from Sweden will not take place? Mr President, I would like to I want to continue a little bit on the issues of Sweden's support for Greece. I was very concerned when I heard in the morning about the reports from Lesbos, where refugees are now reportedly locked into prison-like camps. It is quite obvious that Greece is not able to meet the situation and is in great need of help. I would really like to underline what Ulrika Karlsson, among others, mentioned earlier that Sweden must urgently provide information on how we can support Greece in this work in order for the agreement to work in a legally secure and humane manner in accordance with international rules and conventions.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-151	Mr President, I would like to Then it is good that we have already given the message. We are prepared to provide human resources and vehicles – these may be boats – but we also want Greece and those who act down there to say what they want help with. We will not just send things down and hope for the best, but we want things to be orderly. When we get the concrete information, the authorities are ready. We have given them information on what we are prepared to provide, so it has already been done. Johan Hultberg had a point of view about our attitude. What I'm saying is that Sweden can't just go down and say how everything will be. We don't decide alone. However, we are a clear voice, and I think that manifests quite well in the international think tank, so to speak. Sweden will probably have to count as number two in the EU after Germany in terms of influence. I think it's pretty good. In terms of redeployment, too, one can choose from the prevailing situation. It is correct that Sweden had requested a redistribution within the framework of the 54 000 which Hungary did not want. Now that redistribution has not worked so brilliantly, to put it cautiously, you have to choose your battle here too. Either we stand by and say that we absolutely should have that redistribution, or we make sure that, in this case, it is tested whether this can be used to stop the smuggling of human beings between Turkey and the EU and instead bring about legal pathways and orderly migration. In this case and at this moment, the assessment is that it is better to make sure to use it right now. We do not know if all 54 000 need to be used for this, and then of course there remains Sweden's demand for redistribution from Sweden.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-154	Mr President, I would like to The background to my question on redistribution is that I feel that the government is talking a little bit with a split tongue on these issues. Only last Friday, as I said, it became clear that there will be no redistribution from Sweden, and only last Monday, i.e. yesterday, the government presented political priorities in the EU area. One of the priorities highlighted by the government yesterday is that joint decisions to strengthen the existing system are urgently implemented and that Sweden is being redistributed. I find it a little strange, Mr President, that on Friday the Prime Minister thought it was no wonder that we renounce the possibility of redistribution, but yesterday said that redistribution is one of the Swedish priorities in the EU area. Mr President, I would like to The European Council also discussed the environment and climate and the ratification of the Paris Agreement. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the timetable for EU ratification is.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-157	Mr President, I would like to Excuse me, but can I hear the question of ratification again?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-158	Mr President, I would like to I asked the Prime Minister about the timetable for EU ratification of the Paris Agreement.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-159	Mr President, I would like to Excuse me, but as this is not affected by this reporting, I have not prepared it. I can't in my head exactly when it's to be ratified. It's just as well to say it right away. As far as redeployment is concerned, it is not clear. The current situation is that the 54 000 which Hungary did not want to be part of are at its disposal. If the 18 000 available in cooperation with the UNHCR are not enough for this purpose, there are 54 000 more. We don't yet know if they're being used at all, and that's why our request remains with the European Commission-- if it's not being used, we'll be able to have some of them. That is why we are not going to let go of that requirement. The Commission has promised us this. No proposal has yet been made to put this difficult situation in order. We have said: Okay, if they can do any good here, we will try that way.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-161	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister has now received two or three questions about what Sweden can do to assist the Greeks in ensuring that this agreement really works in practice. The Prime Minister has tried to slip away from an answer to the question by saying that the Greeks must first clarify what they want help with. The problem is that the Greeks need help with everything. There's nothing wrong with that. There's too little police, too little asylum officials and too little of everything. A number of countries in Europe have made clear what they are prepared to contribute. Germany has said that they are prepared to send 200 police officers. France as well. Both Germany and France have said that they are prepared to send 100 asylum officials each. Even Romania has declared what kind of resources they are prepared to send down there. If the agreement with Turkey is to work properly, all countries must assume their responsibilities. Now the Swedish government escapes its responsibility. Stefan Löfven escapes responsibility in this Chamber and does not answer the question of what the Swedish Government can provide.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-165	Mr President, I would like to I'll read again what I said in the introduction. The Police Authority and the Coast Guard have already offered personnel and material resources to Frontex. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency is preparing for action. The Finnish Immigration Service is looking at how to contribute. The prerequisites for contributing are continuously analysed. Now it is primarily the individual test that Greece has asked for help with, and beyond, order power and other support. It may also apply to prefabricated houses. But it is not wise for all countries to send theirs down and say that now we are doing so and that without it being coordinated. I suppose it makes sense for us to look into it. We can say what we are prepared to contribute. That's exactly what I read out. Then you have to say down there: if you do, you can do it, and you do it. It is important that not everyone comes with the same effort, because then it is not very helpful. Here we need to be clear about what we can contribute and to ensure that it is coordinated so that it is useful down there. If the Moderates want to make some domestic political point of this, they can do it. We have been clear on the part of the government and the authorities about what we can contribute. In fact, it needs to be coordinated.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-169	Mr President, I would like to What Stefan Löfven just read out here and what he said at the beginning is what the deal is about. That is what all other European countries have committed themselves to contributing. But Sweden is one of the countries that does not specify what it is about. It's unfortunate. You get the feeling very much that it is a question of the government trying to slip away from the responsibility to really do its part. We know how strained the Swedish police force is here in Sweden. We know how hard the Migration Agency is. This puts the picture of trying to avoid, in every way possible, specifying what we want to contribute. If all countries do, the deal will fall for the same reason we had to make the deal. It was because the countries of Europe were not clear about their responsibility in receiving asylum seekers.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-172	Mr President, I would like to It's a little strange argumentation from Fredrik Schulte. He says that we know how hard it is now with the police and with others. Is it not reasonable, then, for the police to decide for themselves what it can contribute? We have said that we are happy to contribute what Greece needs help with in the individual trial. It may include both experts who conduct the examination itself and, at a later stage, police action. However, the authority must decide for itself what it can provide. There's not much more to answer. We have been very clear about Greece. I myself told the head of government that we will assist. We're analysing it. We've told you what it might be. But it is also important that Greece itself and those who work down there should coordinate it so that not everyone sends the same stuff. I think that is a wise solution.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-177	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me what the government has done to ensure that other treatment of people in phase 3 will take place since the turn of the government a year and a half ago and whether all those who are now in phase 3 will be in other employment on 31 January 2018. As late as 22 January this year, I presented in an interpellation debate with Katarina Brännström several of the government's efforts for people in the employment phase. Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to present the government's policy in this area. The previous government's policy for participants in the Job and Development Guarantee with deadlines and detailed management meant that few went on to work or studies and that the number of participants in the so-called Phase 3 increased. For participants in the previous phase 3, the Government has introduced a special study initiative with the possibility to study for up to one year, with retained activity support at Komvux including vocational studies, universities and colleges of applied sciences. The Regulation on external services came into force on 1 November 2015, and work on additional services has now begun. On 1 February this year, a number of amendments to the Regulation entered into force which will stop the influx of new participants into current employment places and phase 3 will be phased out until 31 January 2018. Furthermore, the government has increased the opportunities for those who have been unemployed for the longest time to take part in work training. People who are far removed from the labour market often need a number of complementary actions. The Government believes that work training is an important building block which, unlike employment places, requires organisers to adapt the effort to the needs of the participant in order to get closer to the labour market. The additional services have been extended to the activities of public authorities. Further changes from 1 February this year are the elimination of the phase breakdown of the job and development guarantee and the requirement at a specific level of activities and the possibility for all participants in the job and development guarantee to study part-time for six months alongside participation in the guarantee. The government has also extended the possibility of studying Swedish for immigrants within the guarantee from six to twelve months. In addition, a new investment in vocational courses in the shortage professions at folk high schools for up to 24 months has been introduced. In addition, the Government has taken a step to take advantage of the important work done by the labour-integrated social enterprises by deciding on 25 February this year to implement a three-year initiative in which a total of SEK 60 million will be contributed to employment-promoting efforts via labour-integrated social enterprises. As part of this work, the Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked with developing and implementing, in collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen, a national programme of measures that stimulate the creation and growth of more work integration social enterprises in order to increase the number of employees. Work has also been initiated within the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry to review how to strengthen social enterprise and social innovation. Overall, government policy means several new initiatives but also that the retention of people in jobs that do not lead further ends. It is a big change that Arbetsförmedlingen can now offer initiatives based on each individual's needs and that conditions are provided for more people to get a job or start studying. In addition, the Public Employment Service has been given increased funding to provide personalised support.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-183	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is a long and detailed answer about everything that the government hopes will work for this group of long-term unemployed. It has grown since the new government took office, from 35 000 to about 39 000 people. The reason for my interpellation that is being answered today was a report in the LO paper Work on 26 February on the phase-out phase 3. There it is written about snail speed and participants who are critical. It is critical of Arbetsförmedlingen's handling and more and also that there are only about 100 of the extra services to replace phase 3. The Minister for Labour is also quoted elsewhere. What I'm reacting to is what's almost last. The Minister for Labour says: Many have been mistreated by the old government. I think that is a strange statement from a minister. Yesterday I heard about a person who has now been suspended from phase 3 – a 62-year-old man with a mental disability. He has now been referred to a preparatory education at folk high school. After 20 years of unemployment, he is thrown out of a safe place in phase 3 where he has worked very well – this is about being mistreated. Since the government took office, many long-term unemployed have been added despite Ylva Johansson's promises last election of a rapid phase-out. In less than two years, the whole thing will be closed down, just as the minister writes. But it's going very slowly. It should have been 1 000 people a month getting another form of employment. But that is not the case; there are 114 people until February. That is a really bad result given the high tone and all the great promises before the elections. It also shows that the government probably also underestimates the whole challenge and task. When we launched phase 3 in the Alliance, we did so that all those who stood farthest away – many people with perhaps ten years of unemployment – would return to normal routines, get a context and feel meaningful after a long period of idleness. This is exactly what phase 3 has done well, which has not always been the case in the debate. The majority have been satisfied. What has not come to light either is that many have got jobs. Last year 23 000 people went to work or employment. Many were hidden and forgotten during Göran Persson's time. These are the people we are talking about now. It's a big challenge. What is happening now is that Arbetsförmedlingen will close phase 3. People are being sent home waiting to hear about something else. I've heard of two people in their 60s who have only been allowed to go straight home and sit down at the kitchen table. What kind of good employment is that? Good businesses are now closing down in non-profit organisations and in social enterprises. There are many who have been good and have witnessed high participation and good results. One business contacted me yesterday and said: Now the participants cry when they get news from Arbetsförmedlingen. One might wonder how Arbetsförmedlingen manages the decommissioning. No one knows. What happens to the people who will no longer be allowed to remain? Is the Minister satisfied with the work on decommissioning and the outcome of his reforms? What about the additional services, which have now been extended to include public authorities? I read somewhere that there hasn't been a single one in the county council. Where the Social Democrats have the majority in the country and run the county councils has not managed to squeeze out a single job as an extra service. It's a lot of words but a little results. That is why I have set the interpellation and will continue to follow developments.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-194	Mr President, I would like to There are two basic approaches to each other. Katarina Brännström, the Moderates, stands for one. When the Moderates ruled, they reduced unemployment benefits, they put the unemployed at the impasse phase 3 and they explained that it was the individual's fault that they were unemployed. We Social Democrats have a completely different view. We look at every human being's ability and resources. It's about making people grow. It is about giving people the ability to use their own resources to get back to work. It's about equipping people back to work. Therefore, we invest heavily in education – many different forms of education. When Katarina Brännström of the Moderates ruled long-term unemployment still. Nothing happened. Nothing positive happened with long-term unemployment while phase 3 was growing. Long-term unemployment is now falling. That is very pleasing. But it is from a high level – not in international comparison but in Swedish comparison. More efforts will be needed to ensure that the work capacity of all people is effectively exploited in the labour market. This will require several different actions. Mr President, I would like to In my reply, I have explained the diversity of efforts that the government has decided on.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-198	Mr President, I would like to There is a smudge of how evil the alliance government has always been, how we have thrown people here and there and how we have done nothing right. Let me remind you once again that during the time we were in charge of the deepest economic crisis. Nevertheless, 350 000 new jobs were created during this time. That is an exceptional result. We were chosen as the best in the world for a while. So it could not have been that bad, but the smear is always the same. I am convinced that Ylva Johansson and the government have a good purpose: to do something good for these people. I have not intended to overrule it, but I believe that it underestimates the enormous challenge it is about. There is no quick fix, especially when the government has no new ideas. It is old rhetoric from the 1970s: work training, labour market training, internships and other things. The extra services, which were such a big deal for the elections, have not been a success yet. In six months' time, half of the term of office has passed. We'll see what the result is then, but it's pretty weak. The fact that Sweden is doing well now and that long-term unemployment and other unemployment are falling has nothing to do with the government, but it is a good thing. Your budget and policy have been in place for a few months. With the slightest recession, it would burst. Unfortunately, the gap between those who have jobs and those who come further and further from jobs is growing. With the new arrivals to Sweden in the last two years, we will be facing a major challenge in 2017 – 2018 when they enter the labour market. Ylva Johansson writes in her answer about all the reforms – or hopes – you should call them – that you believe in. But it is as usual with this government: a lot of words and little results. It is a loud tone and very little humility. You're supposed to spend 60 million in three years on social enterprises. It's almost ridiculous. Social enterprises have taken care of many people and received good compensation for it. They've got people on the track. It is not for nothing that 23 000 came to work or training from phase 3 last year. But many of these companies have already started to close down because they know that they will not make it. Many of them will not receive any money either. 20 million a year is nothing in this context. Don't call it a bet! It relies on the local government sector. The municipalities in Sweden will manage everything, and now they will also make sure to get people into jobs. They're going to get extra services, and they're going to get accommodations for new arrivals. It's an incredible challenge. Don't belittle it! I think it's a little awkward. The government has also removed the control of Arbetsförmedlingen. You are giving more money even though unemployment is falling, but you are saying that you do not need to tell us what you are doing with the money. You don't have to send us any reports. Individual assessments have been in place all along. We have taken into account each individual. We saw them that Göran Persson hid and forgot. That's why the job reform came about. We can stand here in a year or two and discuss the results. However, you cannot black out just what one government has done and pay homage to what the new government is doing, of which we have not yet seen a single result!
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-207	Mr President, I would like to Sweden had a good economic development for a long time during the late 1990s and early 2000s. We had high growth and falling unemployment. But we had a situation where more and more people were hidden in the statistics. They were removed from retirement early, and they got stuck in subsistence support. It was a conscious policy from the then Social Democratic Government under Göran Persson's leadership, where Ylva Johansson was also present. It was about Göran Persson and the Social Democrats being able to go out and say to the Swedish people: Look what low unemployment we have got! It's almost down to 4 percent. It was because people had been swept under the carpet and they were trixing with numbers and statistics to make it look good. The truth was that Sweden was doing well, but far from all Swedes. There were many people who didn't fit in the economy, found it difficult to keep up with the pace and had difficulty finding jobs that matched their skill levels. There are many indications that we are on our way back to the same development. Instead, what the Alliance did was try to clarify the problems. We tried to get these people who had been swept under the carpet by Göran Persson's government and Ylva Johansson to enter the labour market and start looking for a job. For many it was hard to come back. They had been on early retirement for ten years and would then return to a labour market that was increasingly intense and placed increasing demands on people. For many of these people, it meant that they needed a lot of support and help in the form of special work training. It was against this background that the Alliance Government established the so-called Phase 3. This was something that Ylva Johansson of all people was absolutely most critical of. The tone of the election campaign just a few years ago was very high. The result of one and a half years of government with Ylva Johansson as Minister for Labour is that the number of people in phase 3 has increased from 35 000 to 39 000. If I had been a social democrat who supported Ylva Johansson in the criticism of the Alliance, I would write interpellations and be very critical. I would ask: what has Ylva Johansson done in the last one and a half years that she has been Minister of Labour? So we have seen an increase in the number of people in the critical phase 3. The measure that Ylva Johansson has taken to try to reduce it is what Katarina Brännström was into, i.e. that they try to lock people over to so-called extra services. For a year and a half, 114 extra posts have been created, and then there are a lot of people, about 1 400, who have left phase 3 and have been unable to offer anything. Then we're back at the same line as we used to. You're just supposed to hide people. You just forget about them. You just have to sweep them under the carpet. Now we have received a number of messages from this government. The reduction in the time limit in health insurance has been removed. The other day they went out and said that they would start early retirement young people from the age of 19, and now they start hiding people in the so-called phase 3. We're back on the same line as before. You're supposed to hide and forget about people.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-216	Mr President, I would like to It is a little strange to listen to the Mode rats in this debate. It is claimed that the number of people in phase 3 would have grown from 35 000 to 39 000. The big problem is how phase 3 grew during the old government, from 0 to 35 000. That's where the problem arose. Now we have a government that intends to deal with this and with an active and effective labour market policy ensure that people are put into studies and work or studies that lead to work. It is therefore a policy which, according to the Minister, invests in people rather than, as the Alliance Government did, park people in a meaningless measure such as phase 3. If you are to understand this discussion, Mr President, you have to think about what phase 3 was once created to do. The Alliance's labour market policy, i.e. the policy that both Katarina Brännström and Fredrik Schulte stand and stood behind, had a number of legs. One of the legs was that unemployment insurance was reduced to make unemployed not only unemployed but also poor. Another leg was the use of labour market policy as a measure not for the unemployed but against them. That is why, Mr President, it can be seen as a smear when you talk about moderate labour market policy even in neutral terms, because it was a dirty policy. Labour market policy was used against the unemployed. The whole idea of phase 3 was to construct it in such a way that people would be careful not to become unemployed. You were supposed to scare people from becoming unemployed, because if you became unemployed you got the compensation in the insurance reduced so that you had trouble supporting yourself. There was also a policy that was clear that no action would be taken. Instead, one would be parked in an action in much the same way as people who did not behave as society wanted were placed in the shame stakes of old on the church hill, themselves to punishment and and androm to warn. That politics sounds dirty, and if you talk about it, it might seem like a dirty throw. But it depends on how the policy was designed. That is why we Social Democrats are in favour of diametrically opposed policies now. It is important to remember that phase 3 was added and grew under the previous government. It is said that the Alliance tried to make something visible, but it was really nothing more than what would happen to the one who became unemployed that they tried to make visible with phase 3. Sweden has been hit three times in modern times by bourgeois governments. All three times this has meant that budget deficits and high unemployment have been left behind. That is the facts; that is what it looks like. All three times Social Democratic governments have had to clean up and correct. Our current Minister for Labour has done so before. Our current Minister for Labour is doing so now. With this experience, we can do it better and more effectively than before, and it is clear that we will succeed in this.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-223	Mr President, I would like to One is amazed at the things that can be said from this speaker's seat and that are not true. No one is hidden away. On the contrary, the employment rate is increasing. The share of the working population is increasing. It increased by 0.5 percentage points in February, and that figure is very high. We have the highest employment rate, with the exception of Iceland, throughout the Western world. And it's increasing. There are therefore more, a larger proportion of the population, who are working. The employment rate is the most robust measure of the success of labour market and employment policies. It's increasing. Fredrik Schulte claims that work training was the purpose of phase 3. The truth, Fredrik Schulte, is that it was forbidden to work training for people who were referred to phase 3. Let's change that now. We allow work practice. We will encourage work training. I think it is a good effort for many people who are far removed from the labour market. You forbade the operation work training for phase 3 people. You would only be in storage, and you would not be trained or trained. Katarina Brännström claims that we have no control over what the money goes to at Arbetsförmedlingen. It's just the opposite. Unlike the old government, which governed what the money would be used for through very detailed rules, we have turned the matter around. We follow up on the results of what the money is used for. That is the result – that it actually leads to a better functioning labour market, that job vacancies can be filled and that the unemployed get to work – which is the important thing. At least I do. I'm less interested in detailed rules and more interested in robust results. This is how we follow up on Arbetsförmedlingen's work, and it is a very clear follow-up. Katarina Brännström claimed that there were individual assessments under the old government. It's not true, on the contrary. External reviewers have shown that that was exactly the problem. There was no room for individual assessment under the old policy as detailed rules were to be followed rather than individual assessments based on the professional skills of the Public Employment Service. I think it would facilitate the debate if one stayed a little closer to the truth. Katarina Brännström says that it is lucky that Sweden is doing well, that the reason is pure luck. Perhaps that is the essence of moderate politics. When things are going badly for Sweden and we have a moderate-led government, it is bad luck. When things are going well for Sweden and we have a Social Democratic government, we are lucky. It's possible. I should like to acknowledge that economic growth is complex. There is no simple connection. It cannot be said that if we turn there, we are sure that there will be economic growth. It's not that simple. It is complex, and it is also long cycles. Not everything can be attributed to what the present government is doing. It is also due to external factors and previous governments. To argue that the important issue of economic growth – which is one of the pillars of a government's responsibility, of creating the conditions for economic growth – has nothing to do with politics, but is just lucky to abdicate as a politician. Katarina Brännström also asked: Were there not things that the old government did right? Yes, Mr President, there was, but phase 3 does not belong.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-233	Mr President, I would like to It is fascinating with the high tone that always prevails when the Minister for Labour speaks. I think we need a little more humility in the face of the enormous challenge we face. This is about weak people who, for various reasons, have been outside the regular labour market for a very long time. But it is certainly not an easy task to make sure that these people get to work where the employer wants to hire them or that they manage an education with a quick fix. I am talking about it and about all the reforms that are listed and implemented by the government instead. We can talk about failures back in time. This also applies to the Persson government and the Reinfeldt government. That's not what this is about now. The question is what will happen when you phase out phase 3. More than 37 000 people are going to come in another form of employment. The people I've heard of have been sent home to the kitchen table. They are in their 60's and are no longer considered interesting for the labour market. What happens to everyone else? We are talking about 1 700 people per month until 31 January 2018. What will all these people do, and how successful will it be? It is not possible to say that it is just about matching problems and that each individual should seek a job. It's a really tough task for these people. The Arbetsförmedlingen has provided very little information and support to those with whom I have had contact. That's where it breaks. I want to know what the Minister for Labour is doing to cope with phase 3 decommissioning. I do not want to hear any bark at the alliance government; it does not solve any problems. Thank you for the debate. M a we will continue it, because I care about these people and what they will do in the future. I'm not gonna raise my voice like Ylva Johansson does.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-239	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that Ylva Johansson now says that it is employment that applies and that it is the most robust measure. I also think it is positive that we have increased employment in Sweden. We also had this during the time of the alliance government, despite the fact that the world economy was in the worst recession since the Second World War. The fact that we are now having such a positive development is a statement of strength for nine years of alliance budgets. I say nine years because during the first year of this government's rule, the government's budget did not go through. It is only now after a few months that Ylva Johansson's policy has really started to apply. The Economic Institute, the Fiscal Council and all independent economic assessors agree that this policy leads to fewer jobs. Over the last 30 years, about half a million new jobs have been created. Of these, 350 000 were created by the Alliance during the worst global economic recession, and that says something. It says that the policies that the Social Democrats are constantly pursuing – with increased subsidies and increased taxes so as not to encourage work and entrepreneurship – are hitting the economy. Mr President, I would like to Moreover, this government is wasting in good times, in times when one should save so as to avoid a future hangover to grab for future governments. Patrik Björck said that this government is trying to deal with phase 3. Yeah, that's going really well. There's 4,000 more in phase 3. Of them, 114 people had something else to do. Thousands of people are being sent home to nothing. Finally, I think that Ylva Johansson should be a little more humble. During her time as Minister of Education, she sabotaged Swedish school. Now she is doing the same with the Swedish labour market.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-245	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation is headed by the Government's management of Phase 3. If the discussion is to be about it, one must first consider: What is phase 3 and why was it introduced? It was introduced as part of moderate labour market policies. The Moderates have the view that if only the unemployed are treated badly enough, no one wants to be unemployed. It is the basic position, if one washes this clean from rhetoric, so to speak. We Social Democrats have a completely different view of people. People who are affected by unemployment and want to return to work need, of course, to be given the opportunity to do so. These conditions can of course vary depending on where you are in age, education, work experience and so on. That is why every person affected by unemployment has the right to receive the support they need to get out of unemployment. That is why the government is taking the measures that the Minister for Labour has now gone through here. It is important to bear in mind that Phase 3 was once instituted by the moderate-led government with a very special purpose, and it was not for the people who were parked in Phase 3 to come back to the labour market but for them to serve themselves and others to be punished and warned. It's an old classic, cruel moderate policy. We take it away, and it's simple.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-248	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström asked again what the government intends to do to replace phase 3. I have responded to that in my comprehensive first answer. I refer to that. I have given that answer, and I gave that answer two months ago in this House on almost exactly the same question. The old government handed over a large surplus that had been converted into a large deficit. We have halved that deficit. An employment rate was handed over at about the same level as at the time of taking office and a long-term unemployment rate was handed over which was significantly higher than at the time of taking office. Fredrik Schulte has a little problem with deciding whether it is my fault or the old government's fault that phase 3 has grown in the year that the current government did not get through its budget. I am prepared to take responsibility for all policies since I took office, even though we did not get our first budget through. But one must decide: should one accuse the old budget of the bourgeois government which has been in force and for which I am therefore not responsible, because our proposal to close phase 3 was voted down in this House in December 2014, or am I responsible from the outset and reasonably also responsible for the whole of politics. I am prepared to take responsibility for labour market policy from the day I took office; that is the case. I think Katarina Brännström has a genuine commitment to the people she describes as weak and who have been outside the labour market for a long time. If one now has such a genuine commitment, why is the government's extensive efforts on work training, education, new ways to work and labour integration social enterprises rejected? Why is it sticking to the phase 3 that has proved not to have worked?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-252	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to make it easier for more women born abroad to get into work. A sustained reduction in unemployment and an increase in employment is one of the government's most important tasks. To achieve this goal, investments are made in jobs through the government's three-part job agenda: investment in housing, climate change and infrastructure; an active business and innovation policy for more and growing companies; investment in skills and matching. The Government believes that labour market policy must contribute more to gender equality and counter a gender-disaggregated labour market, including by increasing women's employment and participation rates. The Public Employment Service has therefore been tasked with developing a plan for how the Agency intends to develop the work on gender mainstreaming in order for the activities to contribute to achieving the gender equality policy objectives. The Authority shall report on its mandate in 2018. In addition, the tasks of Arbetsförmedlingen concerning gender equality were clarified in 2015. The Authority shall design its activities to promote gender equality and to combat gender segregation in the labour market. As Erik Andersson writes, it is a great challenge to bring more foreign-born women into the labour market. I would like to emphasise that although there are still large differences between the employment rates of women born abroad and those born abroad, there is a positive trend for women born abroad aged 20-64, as their employment rates have increased by 4 percentage points between January 2014 and January 2016, while the employment rates of women born in the country have increased by 1.5 percentage points. It is important that both women and men benefit from effective measures to establish themselves in the labour market. In 2014, the Public Employment Service started work to develop the way of working within the establishment assignment, and the new approach has proven to lead to greater job focus in newly arrived women's establishment plans. The Government believes that development work should contribute to increased equivalence and effectiveness in the efforts in which both women and men participate. In order to shorten the time from the arrival of new arrivals to work, the work for the establishment of new arrivals is reformed. In the budget bill, endorsed by the Riksdag, the Government proposed a number of investments that will lead to faster entry into the labour market, including strengthened labour market-oriented efforts, validation and a substantial increase in the compensation to municipalities for the reception of new arrivals. The Government has also made investments in the Knowledgelift, which involves both a substantial increase in the number of training places and measures aimed at higher quality education for adults. The government is determined that further efforts will be needed to create faster entry into the labour market. The government's discussions with the social partners, the Employment Service and other relevant authorities to create so-called "fast track" into the labour market for newcomers in the start-up assignment have led to several quick tracks already being presented. In February, fast track was started for chefs, butchers/carriers, health professionals and teachers and preschool teachers. The government welcomes the fact that these efforts will benefit both women and men. As Erik Andersson knows, the government and the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats have agreed on the necessary efforts – both to ensure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers and to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. The agreement states that the possibility of introducing an education obligation for people who come to Sweden later in life and who have not achieved primary school competence should be reviewed.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Employment. That's a lot of words. But I am looking at a debate in which we can stick to the facts. It can be passion and ideology but no pie throwing, because it gets so tiring to listen to. I wrote this interpellation because there is a problem in society, a problem that needs to be solved. All of us in here, I hope, work for the equal value and equality of the sexes. As I see it, it is a failure that the employment gap between foreign-born women and domestic-born women amounts to 20 percentage points. I cannot imagine that most of these people do not want to work, but are about failure. They have not been able to get a foot in the labour market and have not been able to get a foot in Swedish society. Although foreign-born women who come to Sweden have a lower level of education than men, only 63 per cent of foreign-born women aged 20 to 64 worked in 2015. Among natives born of the same age, 83 per cent of women worked. As I said before, there is a difference of 20 percentage points. You can compare with foreign-born men. The corresponding figures for men are 72 per cent compared to 85 per cent. The gap is much bigger for women. It is a problem that we cannot ignore. The above figures include all foreign-born labour immigrants who come, for example, from the EU. Those who are new arrivals today will be in a much worse position if we do nothing about this. It has to be done now and not then. The Moderates have several long-term suggestions for how we can break this trend. A moderate government will always work to ensure that work pays off and not benefits. That is why, for example, we have proposed the first-job deduction. There is a need for an early assessment of the skills of people who come here. As soon as the first day comes, the question is: What can you do in a country where everyone is doing well? It is based on everyone doing the right thing, for the common good of all. We want to strengthen the activity requirements in the supply aid. We propose an education obligation for people who come here from other countries and who lack primary school skills. More people need to learn Swedish at school. The way into Swedish society begins in school. Unfortunately, I have noted that the government's policy is deteriorating for jobs. We have a clear example: the halving of the RUT deduction. It strikes hard at groups that are already far from the labour market. It is a waste that these people do not get a foothold in the labour market. The Public Employment Service should be given a clearer mandate to reverse this negative trend. In the reply, the Minister for Labour refers to the Government's objective, to be achieved through investment in housing and such. It is another debate, but I can say, Mr President, that I have not seen a single home built on account of this government. It is also said that Arbetsförmedlingen has therefore been commissioned to develop a plan for how the agency will develop the work on gender mainstreaming in order to contribute to achieving the gender equality policy objectives. This will be reported in 2018. I would like clarification of that sentence, Mr President.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-270	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson began by saying that he hoped for a debate without pie throwing. Then he claims that the government is making jobs worse. That's not true. We have exceptionally high economic growth, and we have a very high growth of new jobs. The employment rate is increasing. Unemployment is falling. In particular, the employment rate of women born abroad is increasing. It's for that group it's increasing the strongest. It is very gratifying because it is from a low level. This does not mean that there are no challenges. There are significant challenges in the Swedish labour market. This certainly applies to women born abroad, especially newly arrived women. In that group there is a fairly large proportion of people with poor or no school background who have no professional experience or who have very limited professional experience. This makes the step into the Swedish labour market very big. There is definitely a need for more action. Even if the government has done things, we will have to do even more. But it is not correct that jobs are getting worse right now. On the contrary, jobs are doing well. But more needs to be done to ensure that there is also sufficient access to the many new arrivals we now have to take responsibility for. Mr President, I would like to The number of women born abroad who work is about the same as the number of men born abroad who work. Thus, there are about as many women born abroad as men born abroad who work in the Swedish labour market. But the employment rate is lower for women. This is explained by the fact that we have more women born abroad than men born abroad in the working-age population. That is no excuse for a low employment rate. It needs to increase. It is now also increasing steadily. But more needs to be done. An important issue that Erik Andersson raises is about early skills mapping. I fully share that assessment. This government has recognised this and has also allocated resources in the current budget for the early identification of skills. We have also allocated resources for Swedish from day one, already during the asylum period. It is absolutely essential that these efforts be started as soon as possible. This is particularly important now that there are many in the asylum system and the processing times are at risk of being delayed. Mr President, I would like to Significantly more needs to be done. Important efforts now being made are changes to the start-up assignment. It is also about greater opportunities for education, combinations of work and education and about considering an educational obligation for those who come to Sweden with a very low educational background.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-276	Mr President, I would like to For example, if we take the RUT reform and the halving that took place, it is clear that it has affected jobs. If we had not done the deterioration that the government has done, we might have had 16 000 more jobs in the RUT sector alone. Especially today, when you have chosen to extend RUT services to move, IT and garden services and you can get more hands into work, it is very stupid to halve the contributions. I think that the government made a very unfortunate decision, and I think that many of the Swedish people also think so. After all, it is not only about jobs but also about the future. Companies need to know what the long-term rules of the game look like, otherwise they do not invest and hire. At Arbetsförmedlingen, men accounted for 65 per cent of all decisions concerning labour market training and 60 per cent of decisions on wage subsidies, even though they accounted for half of all those enrolled in the agency. There is an unacceptable difference between the efforts of men and women. In order to achieve an equal labour market, women need to be given opportunities and equipped for jobs on the same terms as men. Many women born abroad who have been in Sweden for a long time are not in the labour force today. They have no contact with Arbetsförmedlingen at all, and there it has been shown that outreach activities produce results. Therefore, I think that the Employment Service and the municipalities need to cooperate so that these groups can be better reached. I can't imagine that they just don't want to work, but they want to contribute to society at large. I also believe that the Employment Service and, for that matter, the municipalities should contribute and be a link for the newly arrived groups that are far from the labour market. We shall put the resources where they are most needed – that is a good policy, Mr President.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-281	Mr President, I would like to The government proposes to expand the RUT sector. Erik Andersson says that the contributions are halved. That's not true. The budget will be increased for RUT subsidies. What is halved is the ceiling, and it has a very marginal impact on RUT services. It is not the case that the grant is halved. The budgetary impact will be greater tax subsidies going to the sector as the sector expands. It is not that an individual receives his or her contribution halved. Mr President, I would like to It's important to see that the Moderates a little bit are crying and the wolf is coming. It was said that if the expensive subsidy on the social security contribution for young people is removed, then youth unemployment will increase. That's what it sounded like in the election campaign. That was what it sounded like at the beginning of this term of office. That's how we did it. We removed the expensive subsidy. What happened? Youth unemployment is falling sharply. Of course, it's not because we removed that subsidy, but what the Moderates said would happen didn't happen. Instead, there was an opposite outcome. Then the Moderates said that if you restore unemployment benefit to a decent level, unemployment will increase. That's how we did it. What happened? Unemployment is falling. Of course, this is not because there is a higher level of compensation in the unemployment fund, but also what the Moderates said would not happen. Now Erik Andersson asks a little alarmingly who will want to hire, implicitly in a country where the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party rule. The truth is that we have never had as many people who have wanted to hire as we have right now. I'm not saying that it's only the government's credit, but actually that's what's happening: we've never ever had as many vacancies as we have in Sweden right now. Against this background, one can well take it with a pinch of salt when the Moderates say that the result of government policy will be increased unemployment. So far it hasn't sued any of the times you've painted it that way. Mr President, I would like to I will take note of what Erik Andersson concludes with, because I share the view that closer cooperation between the municipalities and the Public Employment Service is needed. I think it is a constructive proposal, and I think it would be good if we could work together on outreach. I think it's good if you can reach not least those people who are farthest from and may not even be enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. A lot of them are women, and they are very far removed from the labour market. I choose to take on board what I think is a constructive proposal, and I hope that we will be able to develop it and get support for it.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-290	Mr President, I would like to I can see that the RUT deduction has been halved, i.e. the deduction that people can make if they are going to use a RUT service. It has halved, and especially now, when you extend the grant, it is very strange that you choose to halve it. What I am saying is: restore it and we will have more jobs! Then more people who are far from the labour market can also get into a simpler job. When I have visited companies in the RUT sector, it has turned out that people who have started there work a few years, learn the language and come into Swedish society, and then they move on to something else. It is an excellent method for people to enter Swedish society, and it usually happens in school or through work. The Minister for Labour says we are alarmists, but I can say that growth in the industry has slowed down considerably. You can see this if you look at the services sector in relation to RUT. In the past it is almost 20% per year, and now it may end up at 1%, so it is clear that what the Minister for Labour and the Government decide affects our lives as well as it affects companies. I can also mention to the Minister for Employment so that she knows that we have very high taxes for people on low incomes. A single person in Sweden has a tax wedge three times as large as a single person in Denmark. Clearly, it affects how people choose to live. We believe in work, and we believe that people want to contribute to Swedish society. We don't think people want to go on grants.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-295	Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely sure that it has been a very important step into Swedish society to support themselves and also to language development for those people who have got their first job through a RUT job. After all, the government is also proposing an extension of RUT services. But I would also like to say, Mr President, that those who get a job in another sector also have the same positive effect. It is work in itself that is important – to get into a context, to be needed, to earn your own money and to support yourself. This is by far the single most important step in establishing oneself and starting to contribute in Swedish society.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-297	Mr President, I would like to Karin Rågsjö has asked me what measures I think it is necessary to ensure elderly people's need for retirement homes, how I intend to ensure that the municipalities' assessment of the Social Services Act becomes more equal across the country and what measures I want to take to reduce the impact on gender equality, as a result of family members' efforts in the event of a lack of housing. I have recently responded to similar interpellations, which also concerned the availability of elderly people in special housing, and I will therefore repeat to some extent what I replied at the time. Older people's policies should create the conditions for equality, participation and security and encourage older women and men to live an active and good life after the end of their working lives. In order to do so, access to suitable housing for the elderly is an important issue. In order to increase the number of homes for the elderly, the Government has announced in the 2016 Budget Bill, supported by the Left Party, the introduction of a new investment aid. The support will stimulate the reconstruction and new construction of special housing and rental housing in the ordinary housing market aimed at people over 65 years of age. Support shall also be provided to promote the retention of elderly persons through minor adaptations of common spaces in the existing housing stock. The investment support amounts to SEK 150 million in 2016. The support is then expected to be gradually extended to SEK 300 million in 2017 and then to be permanentized at SEK 400 million from 2018. The proposal for a new investment aid is currently being prepared at the Ministry of Social Affairs. In addition, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to develop proposals for a national quality plan for elderly care. The investigator will analyse, among other things, whether there is a need for a new form of housing where older people who do not need comprehensive care around the clock can still have access to security and social community. In this context, the investigator will consider whether municipalities should be given increased opportunities to provide support to older people who are not deemed to need special accommodation with 24-hour care or whether the concept of housing in the Social Services Act should be developed. The investigator shall also report in the sub-area of higher quality and efficiency. Both the elderly and their relatives should feel confident that care is good. The elderly should, as far as possible, choose when and how support and service are provided. The investigator shall present his proposals by 31 March 2017. Karin Rågsjö asks how I want to reduce the impact on gender equality, or inequality, as a result of family members' efforts in the event of a lack of housing. The Government expects to allocate SEK 2 billion per year in 2016 – 2018 to increase staffing in elderly care – also in collaboration with the Left Party. The right staffing is an important factor both in increasing the security of those who need the interventions and their relatives and in promoting a good working environment for those who work in the care of the elderly. It is an important gender equality issue because the majority of those in need of care for the elderly and those in care for the elderly are women. The elderly often receive significant help from their children or other close relatives. There are no major differences between women's and men's caregiving in terms of time, according to a report from the National Board of Health and Welfare 2012. It is equally common for women and men to reduce their working hours or to stop working because of parental concern, according to a recent thesis on family care from Petra Ulmanen. The thesis shows that it is more common for care to have negative consequences for the well-being and work situation of the daughters than for the sons. The care and care of older women and men is a central part of welfare policy and affects many people. That is why I will continue to keep a great deal of focus on this issue.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Regnér, for your answer. The issue of older people's opportunities to leave home has been discussed for a long time, not just this year but for a decade. Older people's chances of moving have really been minimized. It costs for the worried elderly, who now get to like the situation when the anxiety comes crawling, and it costs on for relatives. Insecure elderly people also mean insecure relatives. In its reply, the Government referred to the new investment aid which has been negotiated with the Left Party. It is aimed at promoting the retention of people over 75 years of age. It is great that we have managed to obtain this support. That is more than the bourgeois government succeeded in its eight years. It is not just about apartments, it is about the fact that the aid assessment is different around the country. It is becoming increasingly difficult to get a place in health care. Let us look at the period from 2002 to 2011. It's lost 20,000 places. That's an astronomical number. The share of persons aged 65 and over in special housing has fallen from 7.5 per cent to 5.2 per cent. That responsibility lies very much with the previous government and also with the government before that, but now we are going to look forward. At the same time, we see that more elderly people receive extensive home care services. It can also be hard for the elderly to have ten people running in the apartment back and forth. That's what it looks like in large parts of the country, unfortunately. The National Board of Health and Welfare has looked at these issues and written a report, Care and care for the elderly( 2015), which shows that the opportunities for older people to live in special housing have been limited over the past five years. The responsibility is not really Åsa Regnérs, but we need to talk about the elderly care of the future. Different types of accommodation must be created. It is good that an investigation has been set up to look at and analyse what types of housing exist and should exist in the future. The 80 - year - olds look different. Some people get along with a little bit of security, if I may put it that way, while others have a lot of care needs. About eighty municipalities report a lack of housing relative to the number of older people. That's a lot of municipalities. We face major problems, or challenges, as we say in political languages. I need more answers from Åsa Regnér.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-313	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your commitment to the issue. This is undoubtedly an important issue now and for the future. SVT recently carried out an interesting review. During the review, the question was raised that the really fine principle of residence has sometimes become a prison for some individuals who prefer to move somewhere but that the offers do not exist. Just as Karin Rågsjö says, over the past ten years much of the sites have disappeared rather than new ones have been created. Another interesting thing that stayed with me – we know about it since before, but it came to light in the review – was that resourceful individuals or older women and men with resourceful speaking relatives who are well-read or have status jobs seemed to have easier access to rights for themselves or for the relatives they talk to. It's not supposed to be like that. The very thing about the welfare society is that there should be a solidarity model where rights should be fulfilled and needs met whoever you are. That is what we are, to a large extent, trying to build up together with the Left Party, which I am pleased about. Investment aid has just been introduced, and we need to see how it actually works. I am prepared to really engage in active conversations because it is undoubtedly a question of quality. I myself make an elderly trip through Sweden, i.e. I visit ten places in a systematic way. These are places that represent different challenges and often provide fine examples of how to work with care for the elderly. It often raises the question that assessments are different in different municipalities. This can also be the case within a county or region. The study on quality in care for the elderly has the task of looking at these issues. I have visited Linköping myself, where there is an example of simplification of the aid model. It is unclear whether this model works in relation to the Social Services Act. The report on quality in care for the elderly looks at the examples, but the government also intends to review the Social Services Act later. The directives are not ready yet, but the fact that there are injustices is alarming. I very much agree with that. Karin Rågsjö's question is about how to live your life and get the best support at all. A big question that has emerged when I have travelled around and talked to staff and the elderly is loneliness. These are existential issues. The body may not work as before, but you still need friendship, closeness, humor, fun conversations, to take part in news and so on. Of course, it has to do with where you live, if you can get out and so on. It's a question the investigation is looking at. It is not entirely clear how we politicians can support, but we can at least create the best possible conditions around us. It's about being human. We also know that we are living longer and longer.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-320	Mr President, I would like to It is just as the Government says – today it is almost necessary that you, as an elderly person, have a torpedo by your side. Then I don't mean literally, but a relative who fixes your life for you. It is quite unjust to the elderly who do not, because they definitely end up in the back water. The Social Services Act, which was written in the 1970s, is clear that older people should live a dignified life and have a well-being and that municipalities should establish specific forms of housing for this. As I said, things are different in the country and in the different regions. For example, when there are no retirement homes without people, women and men, who are very ill living at home, this means that they are burdening health care in a completely different way. You just have to go into an emergency department here in Stockholm to understand that there is some kind of system failure. There are a lot of older people with deep anxiety who may not be super ill but need help and care in different ways. There is a need for some kind of national re-evaluation of the needs of older people, I think, and of other types of housing than that they should be forced to stay at home. Now some things are sitting in the lake, so to speak, and we are happy about that because this is an issue that is ticking on. For example, anxiety and insecurity could be considered as a basis for leaving home. At present, it is instead a dementia diagnosis or that you are very ill that is required to get a place. There are various studies that show that you may only live for a few months in a retirement home before you die because you are so crude once you are allowed to move. Instead, it has become some kind of terminal accommodation. As I said, good care for the elderly is not just a matter of welfare. It is also an issue of equality, of which I am absolutely convinced. Women are over-represented in terms of both staff and relatives, and in older couples it is usually women who survive their husbands and who are sometimes also carers of their husbands. It's not unusual. When women have a relatively low income compared to men, it is also the case that if they go down in time to help, for example, their parents will immediately be noticed in pension requirements. As I said, this is a huge social problem. Today, if you are older and have good finances, you can buy completely different services. You can even buy yourself an accommodation. That's what it looks like. Then it becomes a class issue – it will be those who have the worst economy who have to stay at home while the others can live something better with their good economy as security. This should not be the case in a society where everyone pays taxes. We in the Left Party believe that there must be some kind of change of law. Now the Social Services Act will also be reviewed. It also looks very different in the regions. Even in Stockholm with its 14 districts it looks different. It is about what aid assessor you meet, what economy you have and so on. Even if it looks better in Stockholm now than in eight years it is still a bit casino-like, and so it should not be.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-328	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President. As I said: Both when we look at open comparisons, which is a way to measure self-experience of quality in elderly care, and when I and others travel through Sweden to look at examples of elderly care, we see many good examples also of elderly care. I think it's important to say that, because it's often the result of great commitment – it can be professional engagement, but still – from good women and men, mostly women, who work in this sector and try to do their best, and in many cases from far-sighted politicians after all. I think it's important to make a point. I agree that there is too much arbitrariness and difficulty for older people to assert their rights. I'm a relative myself, and I know very well what it's like. When you are affected by a dementia, for example, you must have someone representing you. Then you are very extradited, and then the society I want – and Karin Rågsjö, I think – stands for really being there and standing by that person's side. We have a situation we want to change. We want better access to housing, which is why we have investment support. But I am also pleased with the staffing effort that we have worked together. When I travel and when I have contact with parties, SKL and so on, I see examples that it is a long-awaited bet. These funds have been paid out quite immediately. It should be followed up, but what I hear is that you really use the funds as it was intended – you fill out involuntary part-times for full-times, you can set schedules that are better for both staff and the elderly and you can be more with the elderly who remain. The best thing is if you as an elderly person get a good home care service or support at retirement homes because you want to be there, but even if you wait to get into retirement homes, it is important that there is good home care and good staff around you. The issue of gender equality is indeed a major one. I usually think it's lucky that I'm a feminist for so many years, because if you don't already have to be when you become a pensioner because the injustices are so great. I am therefore pleased that the Pensions Group has taken the initiative for a gender equality project to look at what can be done here and now, but as we know, this is about systematic gender equality auditors throughout life. Unfortunately, it is still the case for women in elderly care, which is an example of a women-dominated sector in the labour market, that working hours and other conditions often make their income very low. When you retire yourself, you cannot always choose which retirement home you want, even though you are assessed for aid. I'm sure you can choose something, but maybe not what you want. This is also an issue on which we really must keep an eye. It's about me, and it's about my colleagues in the government. We need to work together in the government. I would say that we are doing this, we who are most responsible for this – it is the Minister for Labour, the Minister for Social Security, the Minister for Housing and I – and that we are trying to improve this together.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-335	Mr President and the Government. This is indeed a welfare issue, and it is clear that it makes a difference if you invest in welfare as we and the government have done with our proposals. We hope for more for the welfare. It is also a matter for dementia, for example. This is an increasing number of people in Sweden – in 15 years' time, 250 000 people are expected to have a dementia. There is great concern among them that they too should not fit in different types of accommodation. It really is a matter of dignity to have access to different accommodations instead of being at home with lots of people coming and going. For example, you can have 5 to 6 hours of home help per day. It's gonna be very hard with people running in and out. It is as I said before: we cannot have a system where there is a great deal of money in the bank or in the family that speaks for you, but we must have some sort of equal care for the elderly. It's extremely important. Many are alone today, or you have quite frozen contact with your relatives. That may also be the case in life. This is really a question of the future. I think it's about both building different types of apartments and scanning what it takes for types of accommodation. It is not just service homes or shelters that are needed. You have to be a little more creative. We must also invest in welfare. It is clear that there is a huge difference between spending money on welfare and investing in tax cuts of 140 billion, as the previous government did. It is time for a more equal care of the elderly, simply, and then more money is needed for welfare.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-341	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for the debate. This is indeed an important issue. What we have not mentioned but which is obvious is that the municipalities themselves have the main responsibility for elderly care and its implementation. At national level, however, we need to support where necessary, and here there are several areas where all actors need to work together. I look forward to seeing the follow-up to the staffing effort. It is a historic effort, and it is important to see how it has worked. What I hear is positive, but we need to learn more. The report on quality in care for the elderly has a clear mission to engage in dialogue with political parties and, of course, other representatives. But as the investigation progresses, I see that we have an arena to talk about these issues – in addition to the fact that we need to get building started, including through investment support.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-345	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected even if they are married. Boriana Åberg has also asked me what I intend to do to ensure that social services are given the necessary directives to prevent underage girls from being treated as adult women. Children are supposed to be children. Girls shouldn't live like grown women. Every girl and boy has the right to their childhood and youth. Children should develop, go to school and live in freedom from the responsibility of adult life. Childhood has both value in itself and is a preparation for adulthood, and it is therefore a prerequisite for becoming a free and independent young woman with dreams and desires for her own future. Initially, I would like to point out that unaccompanied minors have the same rights as other children in Sweden under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child sees unaccompanied minors as a particularly vulnerable group who do not always have their rights met. Equally important is that you know your own rights. It is a challenge for Sweden and other countries in Europe to ensure these children's human rights in the exceptional situation now prevailing. Child marriage is a way of controlling girls and women. When a girl is married away, she is deprived of her independence and becomes a man's property. Sweden cannot ban child marriage in other countries, but we can work to ensure that other countries prohibit child marriage. For those girls who are in Sweden, we will ensure that they receive the protection and support they need and are entitled to. Asylum-seeking girls and boys who come to Sweden without their parents and are married should be considered as unaccompanied children in our reception system. This means that married girls should be cared for in the same way as all other unaccompanied children. It is the task of social services to investigate and assess the needs of the girl in accordance with the Social Services Act. The fact that a girl is married is often a reason for social services to pay special attention to the girl's situation and need for support. When social services decide where it is most appropriate for the girl to be placed, an individual assessment must always be made. It is important to bear in mind that circumstances may vary, and it is therefore not possible to make a general statement as to what is an appropriate location. An assessment must be made on a case-by-case basis, and in the assessment of social services the best interests of the child must always be taken into account. Of course, asylum-seeking children's rights should be respected regardless of family relationships. The best interests of the child under the Convention on the Rights of the Child shall be a guiding principle and shall determine the form of placement appropriate for each girl. That assessment includes listening to the child. The responsibility of social services for children is not affected by whether or not a marriage is recognised in Sweden – it remains the same. I and the rest of the government assume that Swedish law is complied with and have full confidence in the bodies that will supervise the application of our legislation. On the issue of the need for directives to prevent underage girls from being treated as adult women, I am very concerned that all social security secretaries have the right conditions for carrying out their important work. In mid-February, the National Board of Health and Welfare published a clarification of the support for social services for unaccompanied minors who are married, in the form of questions and answers on the Agency's website. Together with other questions and answers about unaccompanied minors, they complement the guidance Social Services' work with unaccompanied children and young people. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has also established a response function for questions related to the refugee situation to support social services at work. The Government has taken a number of important measures to support municipalities in view of the refugee situation. Examples of these measures are that the compensation to municipalities for the reception of new arrivals was increased on 1 January 2016, an additional supplement of SEK 9.8 billion this autumn to municipalities and county councils to deal with the refugee situation and the investment in staffing and skills in social care of SEK 250 million annually during 2016 – 2019. The Government further commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare in January 2016 to revise the aforementioned guidance to social services in the work with unaccompanied children and young people. For me as Minister for Children and Gender Equality in a feminist government, it is absolutely essential to stand consistently on the side of girls and women. Social services need to have a clear gender perspective in their work with unaccompanied children. We have a chance to give the girls who have now come to our country a new life, and we will not let them down. The government takes the work against child marriage very seriously. The legislative changes made in 2014 to strengthen protection against child and forced marriages will be evaluated. I and the rest of the government will follow developments closely and, as I mentioned earlier in the debate on child marriage, we are prepared to consider further measures if necessary.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-353	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Unfortunately, the fact that underage girls are married off against their will is common in many countries. Ancient traditions turn girls into a commodity that can change hands. The girls are deprived of everything – security, childhood, education, development, independence: Everything! Unfortunately, Sweden has not been spared forced marriages where minors have been married to someone the family has chosen without the authorities having acted. Not so long ago, a derogation was granted for the marriage of children aged 15 or over, for cultural reasons. Only in July 2014 did the Act on Strengthened Protection Against Forced Marriages and Child Marriage enter into force. Whether it serves its purpose is another matter to which I intend to return. When I wrote my initial question, which prompted this interpellation, it had been discovered that in five of the six municipalities that received the most unaccompanied children, married, underage girls were placed together with their so-called spouses – despite Sweden's attitude towards child marriage, despite the legislation and despite the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, these children's right to be children was violated. The Minister writes in his reply that, for the girls who are in Sweden, we will ensure that they receive the protection and support they need and are entitled to. However, the Minister also writes that when social services take a stand on where it is most appropriate for the girl to be placed, an individual assessment must always be made. A so-called individual assessment means that we ignore the principle of equality of all before the law. It opens up the possibility for a pressured social services to assess that the underage girl should be placed with her adult husband, which has also taken place extensively, including in Malmö. Can the Minister imagine a scenario where a minor orphan Swedish girl is placed with an older adult boyfriend? Why should we accept this when it comes to a refugee girl? We have a law that prohibits child marriage, and that law applies to all children, whether they are Stina or Zainab, whether they were born in Sweden or seeking protection here. To allow children aged 15 or over to live with adult spouses is to legitimise child marriage, albeit indirectly. I think it's wrong.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-359	Mr President, I would like to This is a major and very urgent issue. I made it very clear that I think children should be children. Girls should be girls, no matter the circumstances when they arrived. That social services should make individual assessments is the whole starting point in the Social Services Act. This is precisely why the municipalities take care of the unaccompanied children, so that they can have an individual assessment of social services based on their needs, according to the Social Services Act. Of course, Swedish law must be taken into account and followed in this work. That these girls should be able to get a new chance in Sweden to a life based on their needs, I think is incredibly important. There is also work going on at Östergötland County Administrative Board on honor related violence, and they have reported special assignments around it. They have received quite a lot of questions from social services about how to deal with this. Now they don't get quite as many questions anymore. As far as I understand it, it seems that they have found procedures for simply being able to support the girls in the best way, i.e. to view them as other unaccompanied minors. I came quite recently from the United Nations' big meeting in New York on women's and girls' rights with the Commission on the Status of Women, the Women's Commission. The issue of migration and gender equality was naturally very large there. Sweden arranged a seminar on the subject, where the issue of child marriage came up. The special reporter for violence against women, Zainab Bangura, calls child marriage negative coping strategy. Other adults, maybe parents and so on, think they're protecting a girl by marrying her away, at least she's just that man's property. Zainab Bangura fears that children's marriages are thus increasing. We in Sweden must be very careful and good at supporting the girls and not betraying them, as I said in my answer. But we must also, together with the networks we have and with the contacts we have, such as the parties that Boriana Åberg talks to in the European Parliament, support efforts to promote gender equality, girls' rights and sexual and reproductive rights and health. The problem with child marriage is that you not only want to control girls and women, but also their sexuality. You think you have a right to it on the part of parents and men. We must help to break this in Sweden and in the world through the efforts we make. Had we done more since the Cairo Conference in 1994 and the Beijing Conference in 1995 to support and implement what the world agreed on regarding sexual and reproductive rights and health, I would argue that fewer girls had to be married away. They had been able to defend themselves more, have more space and have been to school more. Fewer parents had seen this as the only solution or even a good solution, and fewer men had agreed to marry girls. However, it is not too late, but we must see the whole context. I on my part intend to work with the authorities and actors that I have relations with and responsibility for in Sweden, but also look at the entire global chain. This is a huge issue, and many girls are used in ongoing conflicts because child marriage is so common.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-365	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the Minister is so clear about child marriages, and I welcome the work the Minister is doing internationally to prevent this terrible phenomenon, which robs many people of their children and also takes many lives. I still want to transfer focus to Sweden again. It's about the individual assessments. I would like to inform the Minister that the individual assessments involve the indirect recognition of child marriage in certain cases. I'm sure she's heard this from the children's ombudsman and Juno Blom. Apart from that, these assessments are linked to some practical difficulties, which I would like to highlight. I dare to say that the ability of social services to make fair judgments in cases of child marriage is limited. First of all, there is a lack of experience. For a long time, the problem of child marriage in Sweden has been kept secret, including for fear of being accused of xenophobia. Every year, hundreds of children, boys and girls, call the help phones of voluntary organizations and tell them that they are at risk of being married. Nevertheless, only 19 cases have been brought before the prosecutor, and no prosecution has been brought since the law on protection against forced marriages and child marriages was introduced two years ago. If the social services lack the knowledge to help children born in Sweden, speak Swedish and know how society works, how can they help the refugee girls? These girls flee from war, are traumatized and have no good experience with the authorities in their countries. Can we really expect them to open up to a social secretary and answer the question of whether they feel safe with their grown men? These girls know what they have but not what they can get. They come from cultures where women are much less equal, where a father, brother or husband is needed for them to be able to survive in life and where it is not even allowed to reflect on that they are individuals. Can we really expect these girls to dare tell the social secretary about their wishes and dreams? In addition, these calls are usually made via interpreters, and it is also perceived as a security risk on the girls' part. We must take this into account. The confidentiality of the interpreter is distrusted. Honour standards are also very strong in these cases. The autumn refugee crisis has been a very severe test for local government social services. Social Secretary got on his knees, trained staff were missing and still missing, unaccompanied children disappeared from the homes and so on. There are major shortcomings in family homes. Children have been placed with criminals and abused and abused. The refugee crisis is far from over. We must therefore be prepared to meet those who are most protective, namely the children, and especially the children who have been given responsibility.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-371	Mr President, I would like to I thank Boriana Åberg for her commitment to this issue, which is really important. As I said, these girls do not just show up, but there is a long history of oppression and long chains of downgrading of women. We must work together on that too. The descriptions sometimes become completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible. As a public authority, the Social Services have the same mission as everyone else to work with gender equality issues – against inequality, prejudices and stereotypes and for gender equality. Social services should be able to help those they meet with their individual needs. Social services are under great pressure. That's exactly right. Therefore, the government has taken a number of measures. Among other things, we have allocated EUR 8 billion to the municipalities for the reception of refugees through agreements with the opposition. We have allocated 1 billion from the government to social welfare services for children and young people. We have also taken a series of strengthening measures to address the shortcomings seen during the refugee crisis, with which people working in social services are working very hard. Unfortunately, your government, Boriana Åberg, handed over a social service in a very strong crisis, which is well documented. Hence, these problems too became even greater. As far as girls' rights are concerned, I am absolutely convinced that coming to Sweden must mean a fresh start and an opportunity for them just like for everyone else. They will be seen on the basis of their needs. They will be offered the same training opportunities and support as everyone else. The Government has recently received a proposal that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should become law in Sweden. We will work on that. We ordered such a basis instead of what your government had ordered; it was about whether the Convention on the Rights of the Child should become law in Sweden. We want it to be, and I look forward to the views of the consultation bodies on this. One area that the investigator has looked at is precisely children in migration, what their rights look like and how they can be strengthened. Legislation on child marriage in Sweden is to be reviewed. I agree that this is worrying. Another area we need to work with is issues relating to gender equality and the prevention of violence against women throughout society. Measures specifically targeted at men and boys throughout society are needed. We also strengthen the work we have begun to build a prevention programme with a module that is about reaching newly arrived men and boys and also unaccompanied children with messages about gender equality and knowledge of respect and how to prevent violence against women. All this together you need to do in order to be able to meet the girls in a good way. Social services undoubtedly have a very important role to play here. It is also responsible for asking questions about violence. Their profession should be to be able to see the individual girl or boy standing there. I hope that the resources we have jointly set aside and the money that the government has allocated to the social services for children and young people will now provide more opportunities to make the investigations more calmly, even if the situation continues to be very vulnerable in the social services.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-381	Mr President, I would like to It was the Alliance government that really tackled the issue of honor. We have nothing to be ashamed of, on the contrary. The law came in 2014 when the alliance government had government power. The EUR 8 billion set aside by the current government to cover the costs of the resulting refugee situation is not enough. The Scanian municipalities alone have claims of SEK 1 billion from last year. It is money that they have not received from the Migration Agency to cover the costs of unaccompanied minors. It is not enough 8 billion for the whole country to also cover a lot of other needs. I'm going back to the subject of the interpellation. It is important that we do not legitimise child marriage either directly or indirectly. It is positive that the Minister wants to review the law so that possible loopholes can be closed. But it is even more important that the law is complied with in practice. Laws, conventions and regulations can guarantee any rights. But they are useless unless the authorities can guarantee these rights. It's a lot of child marriage. I thank the Minister for the interpellation debate.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-385	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, honourable Member. I mentioned the 8 billion as a good example of cooperation that we have had on these issues. These 8 billion are fairly divided among many municipalities. One example I usually take is the municipality of Lessebo, where they often talk about the very big challenges they have. Just Lessebo, which is a small municipality, has received 44 million. That's probably quite a lot of money. At least I really make it a task to say that you now have a chance to work with and support the children. I hope that we will at least agree on that. I see Boriana Åberg's commitment to this issue. I hope that we can work on it together. It's a shame you left social services in such a bad condition. It pays these children for now to a large extent. I want to look forward. Child marriage is something that should not occur in Sweden. I want to review the legislation. We'll be on the girls' side.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-389	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah has asked me what I and the government are doing to respond to the violence that LGBT people are exposed to in close relationships. Robert Hannah has also asked me how it is that I and the government in our efforts in relation violence and honour violence have chosen to give priority to removing LGBTQ people's vulnerability. I would like to start with a clarification. Preventing and counteracting violence in close relationships, including the violence that affects LGBTQ people, is a high priority of the government. Responsibility is shared by several ministers. Men's violence against women and violence against LGBT people is a serious social problem that causes great physical and mental suffering. Violence in close relationships occurs in all ages and social classes regardless of religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. The Government has, among other things, set a clear goal of reducing the proportion of people in the population exposed to violence in close relationships. In order to achieve this goal, the Government attaches great importance to developing preventive work and has decided on a number of violence prevention measures to this end. Since the government took office, for example, we have decided on no less than eight measures which directly embrace the proposals of the national coordinator against violence in close relations. The non-profit crime victims' and women's shelters have been greatly strengthened. The National Board of Health and Welfare has continued its mission to allocate development funds to municipalities, county councils and non-profit associations to develop the quality of work against violence in close relationships. The county administrative boards have continued to actively promote and provide support for efforts to combat honour-related violence and repression. Many of the measures adopted by the government benefit all victims, regardless of their group membership. However, I share Robert Hannahs's concern about the vulnerability of LGBT people. In addition to the government's general efforts in this area, the National Board of Health and Welfare is therefore tasked with allocating SEK 2 million annually to organisations working to develop victim activities aimed at LGBT persons. I also share Robert Hannahs's assessment that it is important that the social services provide an equal and professional treatment of LGBTQ people. The National Board of Health and Welfare is one of five strategic authorities for these issues in accordance with the Government's strategy for equal rights and opportunities regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. The Authority is therefore an important player in the implementation of the Strategy. Among other things, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been commissioned by the Government to develop knowledge support and implement efforts aimed at raising awareness of LGBTQ people's conditions and living conditions and how discrimination can be expressed in the field of social services. The National Board of Health and Welfare also has the Government's mission to map issues in social services and health care about the exposure to violence and the practice of violence. In conclusion, I would also like to mention that proposals from the U conference on a national strategy against violence against women and honour-related violence and repression (SOU 2015:55) and the Gender Equality Report (SOU 2015:86) are currently being prepared in the Government Office. In this context, the issue of the vulnerability of LGBTQ people will also be taken into account.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-398	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister for your answer. In his reply, the Minister claims that violence affecting LGBTQ people is a high priority for the government. I think that's good, and that's a good sign. At the end of the day, however, it is also about what efforts the government makes and how it chooses to make problems visible. I do not think it is possible to claim that something is a high priority and then withdraw several advances that have been made in the past. This applies, for example, to the integration of LGBTQ perspectives into missions, which the Alliance had, as well as to the language and violence of men against women, which the Minister uses exclusively in practice. This simply means making the LGBTQ group's challenges in Swedish society invisible. We have come quite a long way in the work of LGBT people's equal rights and opportunities. But we can agree that there is still much to be done. For example, research shows that LGBT people more often than the rest of the population suffer from mental disorders or dependence on, for example, alcohol and drugs. The suicide statistics for young LGBT people are frightening. Some research suggests that violence is more common in close relationships for LGBT people than for heterosexual women, for example. In his reply, the Minister mentions eight initiatives that are based on the investigation into violence in close relationships. But to be honest: several of these are in no way new since the government came into existence. For example, the 2 million to LGBTQ people's vulnerability, which the Minister points to is not a new venture. It's a sum that's been fixed and on the same level for many years long before this government came into being and long before the minister took office. Do you intend to review this amount? Is this what you're saying is a bet on your part? The proposals from the U Department of Violence in Close Relations and the Gender Equality Investigation, on which the Minister based his answers, burst into his LGBTQ perspective and in his LGBTQ integration. Yet these are the proposals on which the Minister uses and relies. It can be argued that these particular investigations may be the reason for the invisibility of LGBTQ people's challenges in the government's general policy. My question is: how does the government plan to compensate for the lack of the two investigations? If it is these two investigations that are to be based on the policy and if they are flawed and have no LGBTQ perspective – how do you intend to ensure that it is included? I find it worrying that the Minister is so strongly referring to the coordinator. If you read RFSL's and other parts of the LGBTQ movement's responses in referrals for the investigations, you can see that they are very critical of the lack of LGBTQ integration. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: what are the eight measures in the proposals from the national coordinator? Where's the LGBT perspective there? With regard to the greatly strengthened resources referred to by the Minister, I wonder whether the money has been allocated with a LGBTQ perspective at all. One thing is certain: victims do not automatically benefit from spending money to strengthen them. It is about how resources are allocated. If you do not allocate resources to others than women who are victims of relationship violence by men, there is no money for LGBTQ people for violence to which they are subjected. Overall, I want a clear message from the Minister: Will the LGBTQ perspective be integrated into all work, investigations and assignments to Swedish authorities regarding violence in close relationships and honour violence? This is really what I want answers to. Will there be integrated bets? Will the LGBTQ perspective be included?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-406	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I am responsible for issues relating to violence against women and violence in close relationships. I find it unfortunate to claim that the concept of violence against women is problematic. The women's movement has been working and struggling for an enormous number of years to get away from an invisible place where one could almost believe that it was the kitchen hatches, and not men, that attacked women in the home. I therefore believe that both concepts need to be used, and I have nothing against it. I am responsible for issues relating to violence against women and to some extent violence in close relationships. I share responsibility for the issues with Alice Bah Kuhnke, who is responsible for coordinating the situation, rights and opportunities of LGBT people and the strategy that exists. Morgan Johansson is another minister who has a great deal of responsibility because he is responsible for the justice system in general and for victim issues in general, for example. As far as the questions put to me by Robert Hannah are concerned, there is no such thing as the previous government ordered and which fell under the auspices of the Minister for Equal Opportunities. There the previous government, for reasons that are not entirely clear to me, chose to divide the work into quite a few different investigations. Carin Götblad was assigned to the Ministry of Justice in the field of violence against women and violence in close relations. A strategy was commissioned to come up with proposals on violence against women. There was another great job almost at the same time as dealing with gender equality policy, which includes the objective of violence against women. It was ordered by the former government. Why all these were launched in parallel and almost at the same time about the same thing I cannot explain. At least now I have received a number of documents. There's nothing wrong with them, each one separately. They are many times genuine, and they try to grasp the issues. Now that we are going to put forward proposals on the basis of these documents, we will also have a LGBTQ perspective. We have started by supporting, for example, on-call staff when it comes to meeting LGBTQ people's vulnerability. In addition, the government has increased the support by 2 million to organisations representing LGBTQ people. We will continue to work on this in the efforts that we make and which are relevant. There is always work going on to really make sure that you work on the issue. The social services, for which I am responsible, should always include this perspective and ask questions about vulnerability when it comes to, for example, violence also among LGBTQ people. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare will also develop knowledge support and implement efforts to increase knowledge about LGBTQ people's conditions and living conditions. These are some examples. Incidentally, I am well aware of the situation. In my opinion, the European study that came a few years ago from the Fundamental Rights Agency made a strong impression. It clearly described how LGBTQ people are exposed at home, at work and at school – in environments where many others face a great deal of support, protection and solidarity. There are many LGBTQ people who are most vulnerable. We must work together to counter this.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-412	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister! Still all the questions I had remain. What are the eight measures that you claim come from the proposals of the national coordinator, and where is the LGBTQ perspective there? There is no such thing as in the National Coordinator's investigation into violence in close relations. How do you intend to ensure that this will still be LGBTQ integrated? I have never encountered a minister who speaks so often and so well about gender mainstreaming. I welcome that, but when it comes to LGBT integration, one might think that violence exists only among men who beat women. But there are also other types of relationships, and some studies show the opposite: LGBTQ people are more often exposed to violence. Then the answer is not that the government is withdrawing the reforms made by the alliance government. There was an LGBTI integration in all investigations of this type and in all missions to the authorities. Now you have removed the mission to the Migration Agency, for example. The HBtq perspective in that mission has been removed. The two studies in the field of gender equality do not have this perspective. Then it is up to the government to say: We intend to ensure that there is an LGBTQ integration and an LGBTQ perspective in the tasks we give to our authorities. We shall also ensure that the tasks we give clearly have this perspective. The government actually gave the investigation Violence in close relationships in order to look at the LGBT perspective, but they didn't. That is the criticism that RFSL has. It invests money to combat violence in close relationships but does not say that LGBTQ people are a group that you must especially look at or to social services to look specifically at the LGBTQ people's situation. It is one thing to say that it is a high priority, and it is another thing how to act. Here you have done something that I find inexplicable: In all missions and all investigations you choose to remove the LGBTQ perspective. That is why I want a clear message. Will the government include an LGBTQ perspective and integration of it in all the work they do in the area of violence in close relationships and honour violence? Will there be clear directives for all those working on these issues throughout society to include it or not? It is clear signal policy if you say that you should do something but do not prioritise it.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-417	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say again that it is not I who have the coordinating responsibility for LGBT issues in the government. Several ministers are responsible for bringing such a perspective in. For example, the Migration Agency is not an authority that I have in my area of responsibility. I certainly agree that this is an important piece of work, but how it is formulated and how you think about it, you have to ask questions about it to another minister. These investigations that you're pointing to were set up by your government. I wasn't there then. On the other hand, it is my task to take care of the evidence that is now emerging. We have the opportunity to do this in the strategy on violence against women – it has the same title as the investigation. It should take account of these issues and also discuss how they relate to each other. Gender equality policy in general is an area for which I am responsible. In the texts that emerged during the time that your government was responsible for and in the gender equality policy objectives that were formulated at the end of the previous Social Democratic period, we have definitely had a much more tangible and better qualitative discussion and debate on LGBTQ people's living conditions. I think that traditional equality policy must relate to this. We have an opportunity to do this when we present equality policy. It includes violence against women and violence in close relationships. We'll have to get back to you on that. The broad perspective, what all ministers should do and what it should look like, is a matter for everyone, but it is not my responsibility to coordinate it. I'd be happy to do what I can in my field. In fact, I have also done so by allocating funds to emergency workers who meet vulnerable LGBTQ people.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-421	Mr President, I would like to That's one thing you say, and it's another thing how you act. I have asked a lot of questions about your area of responsibility, and I do not really get any answers here. If I'm to be specific, the investigation into violence in close relationships suggests eight measures that you mention in your answer to me. Which of them have an LGBT perspective? Will it be in the mission that it should be an LGBTQ perspective integrated when it comes to the money that should go to combat violence in close relationships? Will there be an LGBTQ strategy in the assignments to social services? Will it be in your area of responsibility? Will you make up for the shortcomings of the investigations that have come? For me, it is irrelevant under which government an investigation was set up or what one's objectives are. For me, it is relevant what you do to help vulnerable LGBTQ people. I would like you to respond to things that are in your own field instead of referring to others' areas. I do not have very strong confidence in a minister who talked about so-called honour-related violence, when she visited the Labour Committee. It's not so-called honor-related violence. It is real violence that these young people are subjected to because of honor. I would like answers on the areas to which the Minister can answer, namely these two studies on gender equality and violence in close relations. Will you make sure that the LGBTQ perspective is included or not?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-426	Mr President, I would like to I'll definitely do what I can in my field. You were the one who brought these investigations up and criticized both the classification and the areas to be studied. That's why I mentioned them. I am responsible for what happens in the future, and I am happy to take that responsibility. The fact that I've said so-called honor-related violence is because I don't think you should take over the perpetrators' definition of what they're doing. But I can say honor-related violence, too. For me, it is important that girls, women, men and LGBT people who are victims of this violence get their freedom and their rights back. That's what I'm looking for. There are several bodies, such as Östergötland County Administrative Board, who work with this and who also have the task of looking at LGBTQ people's vulnerability to honour-related violence. So we agree on that. It's sad if you don't trust me for this, but it's actually the first time I've heard it. I think people think I'm working rather intensively on these issues, and I'm happy to deal with them in my field. As I said, I have the opportunity to come back to this because I am going to present a letter on gender equality policy, including a strategy.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-431	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren has asked me a number of questions about improving the quality and supervision of vulnerable children and young people. She's asked me. What concrete measures I intend to take to put in place a level playing field, regardless of the provider, from the outset for all accommodations working with vulnerable children and young people, such as homes for care or housing (HVB) and assisted housing What concrete measures I intend to take to ensure that a general permit requirement is now introduced for all children's and young people's residents, such as HVB, assisted housing and family homes. What concrete measures I intend to take in order to impose the same requirements and tests on all HVB and aided housing providers, for example with regard to owners and management and their sustainable long-term economic conditions for performing high-quality activities? What concrete measures I intend to take to ensure that housing that does not meet basic requirements and legislation is eligible for clearer sanctions, such as several-step periodic penalty payments? - the analysis which has led me to believe that it is reasonable to reduce substantially the resources of the Supervisory Authority (IVO) and, finally, to: . what analysis is behind the fact that I think it is reasonable to halve the frequency monitoring for IVO. One background to Cecilia Widegren's questions is the large influx of refugees and, above all, unaccompanied minors and the sharp increase in housing for these children and young people. I would therefore like to start by saying that the quality of social care for children and young people and the security and safety of housing are high on my agenda and the government's agenda, and we have taken a lot of measures to support the development of this area of activity. The situation that developed during the autumn was unforeseen, and both the state and the municipalities had to resort to urgent solutions in order to give the unaccompanied children housing and support in the best way possible. The forms of placement HVB and assisted housing are regulated by law and by regulations issued by the National Board of Health and Welfare, regardless of the type of operation. It is a municipal responsibility according to the Social Services Act that there is access to family homes, HVB and assisted housing. The ownership review investigation has proposed to remove the exemption for authorisation when the municipality has contractually handed over the activities to individuals to perform, so-called construction contracts. The proposal is currently being prepared in the Government Office. With regard to the issue of general authorisation requirements, as well as the requirements and review of all operators, the Welfare Investigation shall examine whether the use of public funds should be required for authorised activities and, if so, consider whether authorisation should be imposed for those activities for which authorisation is not currently required. The overall aim is for tax revenue to be used for precisely the activities for which it is intended. The welfare investigation is also tasked with further developing the Ownership Review investigation's proposal regarding requirements for financial sustainability, insight, experience and suitability for permission to operate in accordance with the Social Services Act. Furthermore, it is part of the task of the Welfare Investigation to assess whether the corresponding review in any form should be carried out by employees who are in a leading position in public activities. The questions are therefore being investigated, and I do not want to precede the conclusions of the investigation. As regards the question of sanctions, IVO already has the possibility of sanctions today, which has been used, for example, in deciding that HVB will shut down its activities when serious maladministration has been noted. But quality responsibility is also a contractual and follow-up issue that lands on the buyer of the service, that is, the municipality, which is responsible for the quality of the efforts they provide to children and young people. If accommodation does not meet the requirements of agreements and agreements, it is necessary to terminate contracts and request repayment of funds paid. There has been no need for further sanctions in the dialogue with IVO. IVO, which was founded in 2013, has until 2016 increased funding to cover start-up costs. The aim of changing frequency supervision is to increase the possibility for IVO to use resources efficiently and thus allow for a more risk-based supervision aimed at those activities that are most keen to review.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-445	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the discussion here tonight! Reality can change at a very rapid pace. Not least on a day like today, we also realise that the most unforeseen can happen. Sometimes it is necessary to reconsider and show political leadership. The extensive refugee flows in the autumn to both Europe and Sweden have shown that we are being subjected to and faced with re-evaluations. It is for this reason that I am putting this interpellation. In recent months, nearly 70 municipalities out of the country's 290 municipalities have themselves signed up for lex Sarah because they believe that they do not comply with the legislation in force. Then reality has changed. Sweden and Swedish social services will need a temporary refugee break. Last year, 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden. 80 000 of them applied for asylum for a short period of time, of which more than 35 000 were unaccompanied minors and young people. Inflows at the beginning of this year show that 2016 will also be a year with a comprehensive refugee reception. Already today, social services in Sweden have a very heavy burden. According to the Health and Welfare Inspection, in February of this year there were 1,277 homes for care and accommodation, so-called HVB homes. Eight of them run out of ten municipally. The current regulatory framework does not require a permit requirement. However, if homes are run in a different direction, authorisation is required. Since the turn of the year, nearly 50 new accommodations have been started per week. Other forms of housing are also started, such as support housing and family homes. The challenges are and are clear. Initially, my question to the Government is: why does the government not choose at this point to reconsider the importance of doing right from the start? Equal conditions should be set for the care of vulnerable children and young people, regardless of how they operate, as a support and a plate to offer children and young people on the run who come here an equivalent quality from the beginning. Unfortunately, we can now read about many fortune - seekers who make money from vulnerable children. Now is the time to reconsider and think about how to achieve equal quality requirements from the start. The government and the Social Democrats have so far rejected these proposals here in Parliament, but it would be appropriate for the government to consider doing a review so that there will be a level playing field for everyone. My second question related to this is about the alarms that come from the Swedish lonecomers' association. It shows that people deal with vulnerable children and young people without having knowledge, without experience and, as you put it, unfortunately to make money. Can one then think of a general permit requirement that allows it to become more right from the start with basic quality requirements? Can one imagine a test of ownership situations, management and the long-term sustainable economy to find out who is working on these accommodations? At Skara support housing, for example, an exposed woman says: Here you don't even want to end up. You don't even want to be here. It's very, very bad. It's a disaster. Treatment does not exist, medication is mismanaged and there are neo-Nazi symbols on the accommodation. Can we do more right from the start? Can we make tougher quality demands and can the government contribute to this?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-460	Mr President, I would like to I agree that this is a very sad day. My thoughts go to the victims and relatives in Brussels. I think that the government has indeed shown political leadership in the field of social services and its great task of receiving unaccompanied refugee children. Social child care and youth services also have the task of providing support and receiving reports of concern, for example from other children, it is important to remember. That's supposed to work, too. First of all, the previous government abandoned a social service – especially in child and youth care – which was very unstable and fragile. The fact that there were very many unaccompanied refugee children who needed protection at the same time made the situation even more difficult. We have tried to do a lot to stagnate this. Among other things, the opposition and the government have allocated EUR 8 billion to the municipalities, and I assume that part of these funds will be used to strengthen social services. The government has also allocated 1 billion to staffing in social care for children and young people, in particular in order to be able to investigate children better and find out which child needs what. You should also be able to keep track, follow up investments and simply be able to do your work in a more stable way. In addition, we have taken a number of other measures to address this situation. When we last had a debate in this House, even someone complained that there were too many measures. I really think that we have tried as much as possible to support the operation, but much remains to be done. After all, the situation you describe exists, and we have no doubt to deal with it. When it comes to state, as you're talking about, there are many different layers in this, but I'll try to divide it. The fact that municipalities operate themselves, such as HVB homes, is part of the basic tasks of municipalities. This assumes that municipalities comply with laws and regulations and have the competence to run HVB homes, just as they run schools or other basic activities. It may be considered that this is the municipality's basic mission. They can and will also be inspected as other activities. There are proposals for the construction part of the ownership review investigation that are currently being prepared. Then I'd be happy to wait for the results of that preparation. We have also commissioned Care Analysis to compare different forms of investment from different perspectives, especially with the children's best interests in mind, in order to see in what forms of placement children are placed and what they get for the resources invested. With regard to family homes, which you also mentioned, I would like to have background checks and permits. I think that is obvious – all of it so that we do not come back to the neglect situation that we have unfortunately had in Sweden. After all, the government you represent had to deal with neglect that has taken place over decades before. We're not gonna get in that position again.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-471	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a good conclusion from the government and the government, that we should not have such an investigation. However, in view of the discussions we have had and the developments that we are seeing, I believe that it is now time for the government to reconsider previous positions. Several of these issues chose the government and the Social Democrats last December to reject here in the Riksdag. It may be that the proposals then came from the wrong parties, but now is the time to reconsider the reality that is changing here and now. Now the association of unaccompanied minors is alerting. Almost 70 municipalities have signed up for the lex Sarah. It is now that the government must reconsider, and I think that this would be the time for such a discussion in view of what is happening at the moment. I know very well what measures the government has taken and the budget that was put in place and that was decided by the Parliament. But reality has changed. What is the government willing to do here and now? Social services have been having problems for a long time. The Alliance government therefore appointed the National Coordinator and Investigator Cecilia Grefve. We looked at this with absolute greatest concern and wanted to do more and more. But since then, developments have changed. That's what I think we should look at right now. I have also asked a number of questions about the supervision that is now taking place to meet this, not least because of the example I mentioned, which we have discussed – there are several such examples. There are support homes, family homes and HVB homes that do not work as they should. The inspection of health and long-term care, which is the responsible authority, has asked for increased resources both publicly and on the basis of the budget negotiations. A government decision has been made to save SEK 60 million. Isn't this the time to reconsider? It's an authority that's having a tough time. You go closer on your knees to make as good efforts as possible to keep a reasonably good quality around the country. Shouldn't they get the resources they're asking for to do this? I would like the Council of State here today to discuss this a little bit. Will the Social Democrats bring in these discussions for the negotiations on the spring bill and then also for the autumn budget? Here in Parliament, you have previously rejected the moderate proposals to provide those resources. In the second part, I would like the Government to highlight a little more why it is reasonable to halve the supervision of the Inspection for Health and Care. It may have been a right and reasonable decision in view of the development we had. However, in view of the reality we have today, I wonder: Is it right and reasonable to do a half-surveillance when the change is so clear right now? Perhaps it is just the regular visits that can bring improvements. It's about the fact that they don't have a full permit. The basic quality requirements are not fully set. And today we do not really know who starts, who is responsible for and who owns different forms of housing where young and vulnerable people are. I would like to see further additions to this. Does this form part of the budget discussions held by the Social Democrats and between the government parties? Will we see that such changes are being presented shortly? Or in what way does the government intend to tighten supervision? I also understand the commitment of the Government to ensuring that vulnerable children really receive the support and assistance they want.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-481	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren! It's about social services again. I think we should talk about the future. But it is a well established fact that the starting point was very fragile. It was very good that you appointed the national coordinator Cecilia Grefve, whose mission I have tightened up and put into practice. She reports to me every three months-- it's about observations she's made-- so we can make decisions. In the meantime, we have done the same. Nevertheless, this is well documented. She has great capacity and can do a lot. But social services were in very poor condition, and you did not provide enough funds. You dismantled the unemployment fund and health insurance, which gave social services a disproportionately large field of work for which no resources were available. Anyway, now we're where we are. Now we must not just accept the children who come to Sweden. We also need to take care of them. This is a very big mission, and Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility. The situation is still strained – it pains me how the refugee situation looks in Europe and in the world. It was, among other things, against this background that the changed migration policy was needed, as I see it. We now need to help each other to support social secretaries and others who are working very hard to deal with this situation. Then it is Ivo and the means. It is a relatively new authority. They're doing a good job. But they got a pot of money to just start as a new authority. They knew that this would stop. Now the situation is as it is. This is a discussion that we will have to have, quite simply. But they knew what these funds would be used for. Nevertheless, like everyone else, I see this as an urgent area. Then there is supervision and how often it should be done. This is a proposal from the authority itself that we think is reasonable. You go to a supervisory model which means that you have the resources so that you can do supervision more often where you really need it. You make an assessment and see: Here we really need to be involved in checking the situation. This place seems to be working fine. This place isn't working well. The resources can be used to make supervision more frequent where children are really at risk of harm.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-487	Mr President, I would like to I would be happy to have a general political debate with the Government and the Government about the time that has been. But that's not why we're here today. I can only say one thing. If the government believes that the recipe is that it is less than SEK 1 million per municipality, that it is the answer in social services, I think we have many major challenges left to deal with. I believe that the challenges are much greater than the fact that they can be solved by a purely budgetary adjustment in the area of municipalities. It's a lot about skills. It's about long-termism. It is above all a question of setting the basic quality requirements from the outset. I am a little concerned that the Government does not fully demonstrate that she is willing to reconsider the previous positions and that it is quality that is the basis for the long-term. It is a question of making equal demands from the outset and of being clear that it was not right to make savings on the supervisory authority, which has this responsibility in the coming years. At a time when we had not had a flow of refugees, this saving might have been well justified. But now the reality is different. The question then is whether the government chooses to reconsider this because the reality has changed. We are in a serious situation. It is important to do the right thing from the start. Then Sweden should not be heading in the wrong direction, as we feel it is. Instead, we should strengthen supervision, strengthen testing and strengthen quality in order to do more right from the start. We should not risk vulnerable children and young people, even if they are on the run, getting caught. We should not risk unaccompanied minors going to the media to talk about: We feel that they are buying us instead of taking care of us. Then we have to change something. Then we must reconsider. I wish the government would do that review on account of the fact that reality has changed.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-495	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren! I have to admit, there are few questions I've worked so hard on like these. We've made a lot of decisions. When we had a debate on these issues, someone said that nine pages of the report are lists of decisions that we have taken to give a statute in this situation. We have shown and shown leadership. We are following this situation. We are constantly taking the measures that we can. Ivo has had access to grant credits in order to be able to work with permits. We haven't made any savings. On the other hand, I am extremely aware of the situation. There is now a discussion about the budget. We'll have to get back to you about what it looks like. I am aware of the issue. I also see that we need to work. We need to be aware of: what is needed here and now, and what are long-term efforts? It's something I do every day. It is about seeing that we are really strengthening this in the long term. It is also about what we must do now. I think, possibly unlike you, that it is actually also about pure investment. This is a very important part of the welfare society. The most vulnerable, children who may not always be able to speak for themselves, are left in adults who, at worst, do not care about their best. We can't have that. It is a question of pure investment. These are regulatory changes. It is about strengthening children's rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child shall become a law. It's a work we've started. I hope that will also be a tool for these children too. In the meantime, it is important to inform them of their rights. We have to do all this at the same time.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-500	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg has asked me if it is my position that Swedish entrepreneurs need to be taxed more heavily. The question is raised in the light of a referral committee proposing to increase the VAT deduction for representation while reducing the deduction for income taxation. What it is about is representation where there are meals or other consumption. At present, VAT deductions are subject to different thresholds than those laid down in the legislation, as they are contrary to EU law. Moreover, the thresholds for deduction of VAT applied in practice are different depending on the situation. This is not a satisfactory system and complicates companies. The proposal aims at simplifying the rules, reducing the administrative burden on businesses and making the rules compatible with EU law. While the proposal means that companies pay a little more corporate tax, it also increases their VAT deductions. In addition, companies receive less administration by dividing receipts relating to representation into a deductible part and a non-deductible part in connection with meal representation. The government is pursuing an active business policy for more and growing companies. It is essential to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness in the long term and create the conditions for new jobs. In order to improve the business environment, the government has broadened and strengthened its efforts towards active business policy through increased funding for new industrialisation, export promotion, the Innovation Council and strengthening Almi.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-505	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is, of course, an important issue, although I believe that I and the Minister for Finance agree that there are other important things to consider on a day like this. Nevertheless, democracy must contain interpellations and opposition scrutiny of the government. Even the everyday work goes on on a day like this. I take it that the government claims that the proposal is justified by the need to adapt to new EU rules. However, as far as I can understand when I read, these are older rules that we do not need to change, but they have to live on because we had them with us into Europe. That's why I'm wondering if there's no other reason. I think this is a very unfortunate proposal. This is what the proposal says: "Something more"-- it means almost 1 billion. At the same time, companies' VAT deductions are increasing, it says. Then you can imagine that it is in about the same heat, but it is about 50 million crowns. The costs for entrepreneurs in Sweden therefore increase by almost SEK 1 billion, and I think there is every reason to point this out. It is then that some of these companies really get a slightly lower VAT because they can lift VAT, but then I also think that we should remind ourselves that there are a number of companies that do not have the option of VAT-free transactions, for example in the areas of health care, school, care, insurance, finance, renting of homes, certain culture and so on. They do not get any upside at all, but there is only one bottom and an increased cost. If we remember the alliance government, we started by trying to reduce the administration and costs of companies by 25%. I'm the first to admit it's an incredibly complicated and tough job. Many rules are in place to avoid increased costs, but it was in any case a number of billions in reduced costs that entrepreneurs received thanks to the alliance government. Doc k readily admits that a few 25 percent and 25 billion were not. You may not be able to turn it into 1% – 1 billion, but that should be equal to reduced costs. Another job post is the tourism industry and the restaurant industry which is likely to suffer as a result. Then let us remind ourselves that the Social Democrats are opposed to this particular industry. They were opposed to the food VAT being lowered so that it became the same rate of VAT to go to Ica or Coop and shop as to go to a restaurant for food. It has been against the reduction of employers' contributions for young people, something that we know has been incredibly valuable for young people and also new arrivals in terms of getting a first job and a CV and showing that they have an employer. Now this continues. Now we must ensure that entrepreneurs are not allowed to have a right of deduction. Will the changes in regulations continue to make it even more expensive for Swedish companies?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-512	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Ulf Berg's view that it is a special day to stand and debate these issues, but I also share the view that it is perhaps particularly important on a day like this that we continue the important work that is being done in the Swedish parliament and that the Swedish parliament reviews the government. It is so amazing in Sweden that we are broadly united for an open and democratic society, and I really appreciate the good cooperation between the government and the opposition following the increased terrorist threat level that exists also against Sweden. As far as EU rules are concerned, the change that needs to be made to VAT is because the Swedish previous VAT rules were not in line with EU legislation. This means that Sweden loses tax revenue of about SEK 500 million, and to finance this we make a change in the deductions for meals. It is quite correct that Ulf Berg says that we are getting something more money on this than the cost of having had to change the VAT rules. For individual companies it means about SEK 20 per meal if you make a meal allowance for representation. It is therefore not a dramatic change for the individual company, and it does not affect other representation such as theatre tickets. At the same time, the government is also planning other changes in the tax system. Among other things, we have presented a change that means a tax reduction for sole entrepreneurs who employ. I might think it's better to spend our tax money on companies that hire rather than on representation. It is quite correct that the alliance government reduced a great many taxes. As a result, we also had large deficits in public finances and not enough resources to finance the necessary investments in schools, for example, which have an impact on young people's access to work. The Alliance government used lower social security contributions for young people, but I can still note that youth unemployment has fallen after that reduction was abolished.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-518	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the government sometimes believes in reduced costs for entrepreneurs, for example with regard to the new proposal that came the other day that it should be a lower employer's contribution for the first employee. I think you'd only pay the pension part, if I remember this right. Then there is reason to recall that when the Alliance made this reduction, we had to endure a lot of criticism. Now we are taking a small, small step, and I think it is quite symptomatic for the government to point out a small reduction in costs. Then you pay 50 kroner somewhere else, and then you get a crown there. It is the same here, and you can see that in the answer: Okay, you get 50 million in that you can raise VAT to an increased extent, but it will be a corporation tax that will cost you almost 1 billion extra. Why is it so important to reduce costs precisely in order to combat exclusion? I visited a department store in southern Sweden; I even think you have a TV show about it. I asked them: how much will you get in increased costs if you remove the reduced employers' contributions for young people? The answer was 12 million. I asked what would happen then. Then, of course, we will ensure that all the time we employ those who have professional experience, was the answer, because this has been very good. If you constantly add costs for entrepreneurs, it becomes more difficult to hire. People talk about the importance of people getting into work and that we should do everything we can to combat exclusion, but it is still entrepreneurs who will ensure that these jobs are carried out. We know that there are mainly many small businesses. If each one of you hires another, it'll have an amazing effect. Some of the government's reforms are addressed to the big companies that say they will receive 100. Yeah, only big companies can do that. But at home in Dalarna there are many small companies. Everyone can make sure that a person gets into work. I usually ask many job seekers how many times they have presented their school certificate. Maybe it was the first time. Then there is the question of creating a CV. Once you've got an employer, it's easier to get a job and stay in a job. That is why this proposal is incredibly unfortunate. It costs mainly small businesses 1 billion. It is totally okay to deduct for an ad on Facebook or Google, but to have lunch with a business relationship in a restaurant should not be allowed to deduct for. The government justifies this by the fact that the deduction is so complicated that it must be uniform amounts. But if entrepreneurs think it's too complicated, they don't make deductions. That is another argument that does not hold true. Let us hope that the memo concludes that the proposal is not good. There is an interesting proposal from the IRS. But that proposal would cost money. In other words, the costs of entrepreneurs would be reduced. Would it not have been a better proposal to promote entrepreneurship in Sweden?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-527	Mr President, I would like to There is a big difference between the reduction in the youth unemployment contribution implemented by the previous alliance government and the proposal we have put forward to reduce the employer's contribution for self-employed workers for the first time they employ someone. The first was a reduction for all young people regardless of whether they had a job or not and no matter how long they worked. A united team of experts has condemned the reduction as an ineffective way of using taxpayers' money. Reality shows that it is not the case that young people have a worse chance of getting a job after the change. On the contrary, we see youth unemployment falling. For the self-employed, this is a precise measure. It seeks to reach the self-employed who are thinking about hiring and who are not really there to take the step. It's a big decision to hire someone for the first time. It's a big decision and a lot new to learn. It costs some in the form of learning new administrative procedures, and accounting becomes different when there is an employee. A proposal for a temporary reduction is about getting more self-employed people to take the step. Precisely as regards youth unemployment contributions for young people, this government is holding the money tight and taking responsibility for public finances. This means that new, large tax cuts are not in the cards. Here it is a matter of taking responsibility, being careful and ensuring that there is long-term sustainability in public finances and breaking the trend of the bourgeois government in constantly deteriorating public finances every year. They went from large surpluses to large deficits. It is not a development that can continue. This is about taking responsibility.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-531	Mr President, I would like to The previous government took that responsibility. If you are in the midst of a fiery recession, you must, of course, ensure that you do not add to unemployment. Then we can agree to allow deficits. We will also look at how Sweden has stood with the public debt, which looks good. The Alliance government cleaned up a lot in various debts. We can have that discussion another time. Now it is important that we stick to the small business community. I am concerned about what the Government said in its reply that there is a simplification of the rules. We should be politically in agreement on this. Mr President, I would like to I wonder whether it would not be good if the government did not put forward any further simplification proposals. I do not know whether small businesses can afford every small change in the rule costs 1 billion. I would like the Government to be able to say straight away that more money is going to be paid to the Treasury, that it is empty, that it is rattled in the cash box, the barns are empty and the government has made a mess of all the expenses. Then one should admit that it is an increase in taxes, and it affects entrepreneurs. Instead, the Government formulates itself as that the deduction is hardly noticeable. Of course, I think that 1 billion is a lot of money. I think we fully agree that the deduction will not affect the great dragons. Those who will be affected are the hardworking self-employed who have a couple of employees and want to eat a lunch and agree on a deal that can give them a chance to hire or retain their employees. The government should withdraw the proposal.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-537	Mr President, I would like to I tried to be clear in my first speech, namely that it is over-financing. The public is losing some money on VAT. However, as the rules apply today and with the funding that removes the possibility of deducting the income tax on meals, VAT changes are compensated. At the same time, it is important to have proportions in this. These are both large and small companies which use the deduction for representation. It is therefore an increased cost of SEK 20 per meal. Given how important we know that many companies think that representation is, you will continue to represent, but you may choose a cheaper meal, a cheaper lunch or a cheaper main course if you eat dinner, or skip the coffee or light beer– what do I know? It is important to recall that, while the government is making this change, we are also doing other things to strengthen companies that are about to hire. Maybe I'd rather give a tax discount for the employee than for the one who goes to a restaurant.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-540	Mr President, I would like to Lars Hjälmered has asked me when I calculate that the preparation in the Government Office of the Backa exception is ready, when I calculate that the Backa exception will be introduced, which of the proposed solutions for the Backa district I believe should be introduced and if I believe that a year and a half is a reasonable time for a speedy preparation in the Government Office. The Government has previously stated that it is urgent to find a solution to the problems in the Backa area that are highlighted in the request from the City of Gothenburg and the Swedish Transport Administration. The request was submitted in autumn 2014, and two central consultation bodies, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency, rejected the implementation of the proposal. In the light of what emerged from the previous referral and in order to create a better basis for decision, a memorandum from the Ministry of Finance was referred in 2015 containing a proposal for an alternative solution for exemption from congestion tax in respect of Backa area in Gothenburg and the proposal of the request. Preparation of the issue is still ongoing within the Government Office, and the Government is working to be able to present a solution as soon as possible. To do this, additional information is now collected from the Swedish Transport Administration and the City of Gothenburg. Before the preparation is completed, I cannot decide when a legislative referral can be submitted or changes can enter into force.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-543	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. On April 4, 2014, the magazine GT, Göteborgs-Tidningen, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is what Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson said in connection with a visit to Gothenburg. I think that the election promise was clear, and I will come back to it in a moment, Mr President. West Sweden is a growing region in Sweden and much of a logistical hub with the important harbour. Proper infrastructure efforts are needed to cope with both a regular daily commuting for those of us who work and the important goods. Part of this is the so-called Western Swedish package. It contains many parts, including, for example, an important connection under the Göta River and an important connection across the Göta River that will replace the Göta River Bridge. But this has also – I believe that a broad political approach can be self-critical – been lined by a great deal of ambiguities and lack of trust linked to the referendum that was held, to the fact that it took a little too long for foreign vehicles to start paying congestion tax, but also to a lot of other things about the government's recent budgetary tangle in terms of the financing of the package – and above all to the so-called Backa exception. After all, Mr President, when the congestion tax was introduced, it turned out that for the Backa district of Hisingen it was not optimal. Accommodation there was almost locked up in the congestion tax area. It happened that a political discussion and an official discussion produced various proposals for solutions to this, and before the last elections promises were made that a solution would be found. It was in connection with what the Minister of Finance said: Let Backa get away from the congestion tax! Just over six months after the election, we were able to conclude that nothing had happened. Then I asked the Minister for Finance a question: when is the preparation of the Backa derogation expected to be completed, and when will the derogation be introduced? At the beginning of May 2015, I received the answer that preparation is ongoing. It took another six months. Nothing happened. Then I asked the same question again and in practice got almost the same answer. The Minister of Finance said this is urgent. We'll prepare the question, but we'll have to get back to you. Now, Mr President, another six months have passed when nothing has happened. I think it is important to raise the issue again with the Minister for Finance. That is why I have asked a number of questions: when does the Minister of Finance estimate that the preparation is complete? When does the Minister of Finance expect the Backa derogation to be introduced? Which of the proposed solutions does she want to see to solve the situation of residents in the Backa district of Gothenburg? And does the Minister of Finance think that a year and a half as it has now taken is a reasonable time, given the clear promises she and the government made? We note, Mr President, that the Minister for Finance says that preparation is under way and that it is hoped that this will be introduced soon. She does not really want to answer the remaining questions. At the same time, we have the clear electoral promise she exhibited in April 2014. This is where the problem begins, I think. The fact that you, as a politician, clearly make an election promise and then do not deliver, that sort of does not hold. I can understand that many Gothenburgers react to this with both surprise and sometimes anger. That brings us, Mr President, to what I think is a bit of a crack in the debate. The Minister of Finance said, "Let Backa get out of the congestion tax!" I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: how do you want to solve this, Magdalena Andersson? Which of the options now on the table do you recommend to live up to the electoral promise you so clearly made? In the answer you give me, you say that you are now collecting additional information from the Swedish Transport Administration and the City of Gothenburg. What kind of information are you collecting?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-557	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Lars Hjälmered's description of the Gothenburg region, how important it is for Sweden and the Swedish economy and how important a well-functioning transport infrastructure is in that part. It is not an insignificant proportion of Sweden's export revenue and tax revenue that is created in the Gothenburg region, and it is a pride for the whole of Sweden. The solution with the Western Swedish package and congestion tax is one way of trying to strengthen the region through a better transport infrastructure. It is important that we continue this effort. In the election campaign, I made it clear that I want a Backa exception. I want a Backa derogation, and I think it is crucial that it is introduced. It's something I work for at the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the preparation processes in the Government Office sometimes drag on. This is one of those cases. We have had to reconsider the proposal that came out. It was produced under the bourgeois government and received very serious criticism. We had to look at whether an alternative solution could be found and then refer it again. But it is not that nothing has happened since then, but now we are asking for further information from both the City of Gothenburg and the Swedish Transport Administration on how these exceptions would work in practice. But I fully share Lars Helmered's view that the construction of the congestion tax was not good for Backa and that we therefore need to find a solution for Backa so that you do not have to pay congestion tax in the way you do today. There are two options. It is now a question of preparing the questions so that we can find a solution as soon as possible.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-563	Mr President, I would like to This is a little bit the problem: I and the Minister for Finance meet in the view that Gothenburg is very important. The logistics centre in Gothenburg with harbour and more is incredibly important. We have the Western Swedish package of important infrastructure investments. We have a clear electoral promise from Magdalena Andersson, which was given in the magazine GT, where she said: Let Backa avoid the congestion tax! It was crystal clear, what was brought forward. Anyone who wants to can read the article in the newspaper Göteborgsposten from Saturday, 19 March – Among other things, you can read that Magdalena Andersson's local party colleagues say that they do not understand why it takes so long, why this could not be introduced. It is true, as the Minister for Finance says, that there have been various proposals. The people that have been discussed are called G and H and have different pros and cons. The information I have received locally is that on the questions you have sought additional information about, the City of Gothenburg says: It is about procurement issues, but it does not prevent the government from making a sharp decision and introducing the exemption now. This is the message locally from Gothenburg. This brings us back to this, Mr President, that we have a Minister of Finance who made a clear promise to the people of Hisings, to the people of Backa, when she said that you should not pay congestion tax. Since then, a year and a half have passed, and I have asked questions to the Minister of Finance every six months. What's going on? She says that this is a huge situation and that you are working on the question. When is it introduced? I ask. We can't answer that, she says. So it was the first six months, and so it was the second six months. Now it has been a year and a half, and I really do not understand what is taking so terribly long. We've come back, I think, to the main issue. The Minister of Finance makes a clear promise that Backa residents will not pay but will not deliver on it. Then the question is: How do you, Magdalena Andersson, want to solve this practically? There are two solutions, G and H, which are concrete proposals. Which one of them are you advocating? Well, that's a pretty simple question, isn't it? One proposal says the Minister for Finance that it is judged on the basis of what consultation bodies have received. Should we interpret it as landing in the second solution? If so, when will the concrete proposal for Backa residents and other Gothenburgers come?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-570	Mr President, I would like to Election promises are usually evaluated the next time there are elections. I am convinced that there is a wide range of electoral promises that have been issued by previously moderate-led governments and moderate councillors who have not been delivered after a year and a half. We shall have delivered our election promises on the election day, but my ambition is that the Backa exception should be decided in the Swedish parliament long before the next election day. I think it is urgent to make such an exception. The preparation of the two exceptions is still ongoing in the Government Office. The government has not yet taken a position on any of them – whether it is more enlarged, where anyone who visits people in Backa can also be eligible to avoid paying congestion tax, or the narrower one that only affects people living in Backa. We have not taken a stand but prepare the question in the Government Office, and we need additional information from both the Swedish Transport Administration and the City of Gothenburg to be able to take a stand. We come to Parliament with a proposal as soon as that preparation is completed.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-573	Mr President, I would like to As a local election representative for Gothenburg, I actually think it is important to raise this issue. Overall, it is about the important infrastructure efforts that need to be made in Gothenburg, both with regard to the Western Swedish package and other efforts, to develop the city and the region. This question may sound like a detail, but for people living in the Backa district, it is one of the most important issues. You think you're locked up. You can see that various politicians have made clear electoral promises. The commemorator notes that in the first discussion prior to the previous elections, representatives of the Social Democrats said that this would have been introduced on 1 January 2015. I respect the fact that a proposal that was tabled was not perfect, that there are points of view on it. Then you take out another one and discuss it. But now it has been a year and a half. I think it's an incredibly long time. This view is obviously shared in the Gothenburg post by Magdalena Andersson's local party colleagues, who do not really understand why it takes so long to introduce this. Finally, I wonder, Mr President: should I have to wait another six months, or can we expect a Backa derogation to be in place before then?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-577	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer the last question. I really hope you don't have to wait another six months, Lars Helmered. I wish you wouldn't have had to wait the past six months either. But congestion tax legislation is obviously not that simple, as it went wrong from the start. My view is that it was wrongly designed in the first place. It shows that it is important to think through and prepare properly, so that the decisions you make are also well thought out, so that it does not go wrong again. That is why preparations sometimes take some time. Again, I would like to say that it does not constitute a breach of electoral promises that this is not introduced after a year and a half. However, it should be evaluated on election day. Then I look forward to this being decided here in Parliament, and I look forward to receiving the support of the Moderates for it.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-580	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Gjörtler has asked me, on the one hand, what reasoning and motives were behind my and the Government's implementation of the sharp increase in taxes on ethanol in 2015, and, on the other hand, whether I was considering any measures other than tax increases and, on the other hand, whether I am prepared to take the initiative now to reduce the tax to a more appropriate level and, on the other hand, how I intend to work in the future to ensure that we have long-term rules for biofuels in order to promote the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. Sustainable biofuels are currently subject to certain exemptions from energy tax and full exemption from CO2 tax. The exemption is State aid under EU law. In December 2015, the Commission approved Sweden's biofuels tax exemption until 31 December 2018 for liquid biofuels and until 31 December 2020 for biogas. State aid approvals are subject to certain conditions that must be met in order to reduce taxes. One of the conditions is that the biofuel must not be overcompensated in relation to the fossil fuel it replaces. The methodology for calculating overcompensation is set out in the State aid decisions. The same conditions applied to the previous State aid approvals valid until 31 December 2015. The Swedish Energy Agency has been tasked with regularly reporting to the Government on the tax-exempt biofuels overcompensated. The 2014 monitoring report showed that overcompensation existed for both high and low ethanol and Fame. According to the State aid decision in force until 31 December 2015, the Government was obliged to remedy any overcompensation by the second half of 2015. If the overcompensation incurred in 2014 had not been remedied, the Commission would not have extended our State aid approval. Since the overcompensation was remedied, Sweden received in December 2015 an extension of State aid approval until the end of 2018. If overcompensation is not remedied, companies may be obliged to repay the part of the tax exemption corresponding to the overcompensation plus interest. Therefore, the government increased the tax on overcompensated biofuels in the same way as the previous government did in 2013. On 26 February 2016, the Swedish Energy Agency submitted the monitoring report for 2015 to the Government. The report shows that there is a good margin for overcompensation for several biofuels. Against this background, the Ministry of Finance has referred a proposal for a lower tax rate for these biofuels as of 1 August 2016. It is important that tax rules and measures are sustainable and defensible in an EU legal perspective. Stable conditions are also important for the operators who produce and trade in biofuels as well as for the companies that manufacture vehicles that run on these fuels. The Government's objective is to have rules in place as soon as possible during its term of office that provide long-term sustainable and stable conditions for biofuels. Work is currently under way within the Government Office to develop such proposals. I do not want to precede this work by giving an opinion on the long-term rules of the game to promote the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-582	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The background to my question is that last year the government pushed through a sharp increase in taxes on ethanol, which came into force on 1 December last year. This increase, which gives a price increase of more than a cent for the consumer, justified the government's view that the current level of taxation was in breach of EU state aid rules. However, according to the latest monitoring report from the Energy Agency, this is not true. In the section with conclusions, the Authority writes: In the case of low-interference ethanol, the Authority clearly states that it would not have been overcompensated even if a tax increase had not been implemented at all. Regarding ethanol to E85, the Authority states that the increase in the tax burden on petrol could indeed entail some risk of overcompensation but that a lower tax increase is likely to have been sufficient to compensate for it. The question then asked is why the government chose to carry out such a sharp tax increase, far beyond what can be considered reasonable. Another aspect of this is the twitchiness and lack of long-termness of management. After all, the Energy Agency points out that the problem of overcompensation can adjust itself over a longer period of time, especially at a time like the one we have now, when commodity prices are very variable. Therefore, according to the Swedish Energy Agency, there is a great risk that tax adjustments are made in the wrong way and to the wrong extent and that the effect takes place at the wrong time. That is exactly what we have seen now. The government raises the tax too much and at the wrong time and is then forced to back down and flag for a reduction. The tax instrument as it is used here apparently works quite poorly for this purpose. In addition, it contradicts the need for long-term rules for biofuels in Sweden. Other players have also criticised the twitching of these rules. There are many different types of actors who find it problematic. Uncertainty and lack of long-term rules mean that people opt out of ethanol as fuel. Last year, ethanol use was clearly reduced for both the low-mixed variant E85 and ED95. Overall, the decrease was over 40 per cent. It is certainly positive that the government has flagged up because it is prepared to reduce this tax, which has just been substantially increased, but the direct follow-up questions on that will be why the government chooses to do so only in August and not before, and how much the tax reduction will be. Will the reduction correspond to the very sharp increase made in December, or will it be a minor reduction, so that the net effect on the consumer is still a tax increase? For example, in order to reduce the twitchiness and short-termity of these rules and at the same time to make the assessments of possible overcompensation more reliable, it could be envisaged to make more measurements and assessments on an annual basis, thereby reducing the risk of excessive market penetration of temporary peaks or valleys. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether she and the government are prepared to promote such a more stable order.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-591	Mr President, I would like to I am the first to share Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's view that this is twitchy and short-term and does not create stable conditions for the industry. It is not a good system we have as the state aid rules are designed. It is, however, a system which existed when we entered the Government Office and which we inherited from the bourgeois alliance government. During the time we have worked in the Government Office, we have looked at how to change the rules in order to create longer-term and more stable conditions. I have discussed some proposals with the European Commission for which we have not received approval, and we will now continue to work on other proposals, which unfortunately need to be approved by the European Union. But I am the first to agree that the system we have today, which we inherited from the bourgeois government, is not a good system. The information we had when we presented the budget proposal last autumn was that there was overcompensation on certain fuels, for which we then had to increase the tax, in the same way as the previous government did, for example, in 2013. The problem was that we needed a new state aid approval by the European Commission in the autumn. Had we not implemented this increase in the autumn, all the figures indicated that we would otherwise have been overcompensated. At that time, the government's assessment was that we had never obtained a new state aid approval. This was therefore absolutely necessary in order to obtain a new state aid approval. Otherwise, we would have been able to stand with both full CO2 tax and full energy tax on biofuels, and this is a situation that I am sure none of us would have liked to have ended up in. Now that the new report has come, when we have the opportunity to reduce the tax, we will do so as far as is possible, given that we still need to have a certain safety margin with us in order not to risk overcompensation.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-595	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Finance. I share the view of the Minister for Finance that something had to be done and that it would not have been reasonable to risk jeopardising the whole system by not acting at all. But that is not really what the question is about. In the first place, the question is about the level, which is why a tax increase of this magnitude was chosen. Secondly, when you see that this did not prove necessary and should go back to a lower level, why do you choose to do it only in August? I was curious to hear something about the level, and there I was told half a time that the government is prepared to do as much as it deems possible. I guess I can't get a more precise answer than that. Then I had hoped that the government would be able to give a statement as to when and in what way it intends to bring about a long-term approach to the rules of the game of biofuels, but that sounds, unfortunately, like having to wait for a response on this issue. I would like to say that I believe that, in general, long-term rules of the game are important in order to achieve a fossil-free fleet by 2030. We believe it is important to encourage environmentally smart action. In addition to the tax issues we are discussing now, I can cite the environmental car pools as an example. We believe that it is urgent that the government gets out and gets a definition of what a car pool is. A definition is needed, for example, when municipalities want to reserve parking spaces for car pools. We also believe that the conditions need to be reviewed to make it cheaper to participate in car pools. They are currently taxed as a 25 % VAT service. If EU rules allow for this, efforts should be made to reduce this level in the long term. This is, of course, a form of collective travel or a collective way of solving a transport need. VAT on public transport is 6%, and we believe that this should also be done with car pools. But while we from the Moderates want to make it easier and cheaper to act environmentally smart, I regret to say that the Red-Green Government is currently making it more expensive. On the one hand, it makes it more expensive to refuel by means of the greatly increased tax on ethanol, which we have touched on here, and on the other hand it makes it more expensive to have an environmental car as a company car by reducing the preferential value of certain environmentally friendly cars. In addition, the government makes it more expensive to buy a charging hybrid by halving the super-environmental car premium for charging hybrids. I wonder how the Minister for Finance and the Government think this benefits the environment. Everyone knows in itself that the government needs to raise money for its unfunded reforms, various increases in subsidies and other things. We also know that the government sees tax increases as the main means of doing so. However, I have to say that it nevertheless seems counterproductive that the government, which at the same time states its desire to promote environmentally sound behaviour and which is behind the ambition of a fossil-free vehicle fleet by 2030, is now clearly disadvantaging environmentally friendly fuels with unnecessarily high penalties. When and in what way does the government intend to come back with proposals that create long-term rules for biofuels in order to promote the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet? Can we count on a reply this year?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-603	Mr President, I would like to Why the fall on August 1st? This is where we really worked for high pressure. From the time we received the report from the Swedish Energy Agency, we have worked on high pressure at the Ministry of Finance to produce a department letter that can be submitted for consultation. But then this must also be processed through the Riksdag, and therefore the assessment is that it is absolutely impossible to do so before 1 August. That's how long it takes to get the legislation through. But even with this time-frame, this is a record-fast tax change. The ambition has also been to get this through as soon as possible. Then I'll say something about car pools. There are a number of problems. Car pools are a great way for people to own cars together and a way to use our resources more efficiently than you could otherwise do. But it is not easy to distinguish between what is a car pool and what is a car rental company in the tax legislation. It is not a simple legislative boundary. I would like to make that point. When, then, can a new and more long-term system be in place? We work at the Ministry of Finance to develop such a system. At the same time, it has to be okay via the EU, which means that such processes can always take some time. The previous government discussed a proposal on quotas, which received a great deal of criticism. It shows that it takes some thought to find alternative proposals that are good. It is important that we develop a system that both creates long-term sustainability and clearly benefits bio-based fuels. I appreciate that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler shares this ambition with the government.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-606	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Finance. We have a small turn in the debate, even though we have already taken each other in hand. But I won't do this much longer. As I mentioned earlier, the government makes it expensive to refuel renewables through the increased tax on ethanol and more expensive to have an environmental car as a company car through the reduction of the benefit value of environmentally friendly cars. In addition, the government makes it more expensive to buy a charging hybrid by halving the super-environmental car premium for charging hybrids. It is difficult to interpret this as a few steps in the right direction on the road to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030, a goal that I think we should actually agree that we want to try to achieve. For the rest, however, I think that the Minister for Finance gives some hope, for which I thank him: that the reduction should be as great as possible and that it should be implemented as soon as possible, which unfortunately will only be in August. Nevertheless, I take this as a positive message. I also thank you for the reasoning on car pools, which I see as a signal from the government that it wants to come up with a definition. I hope that it will be possible to achieve this, so that we can achieve a long-term system for car pools. As far as the long-term schemes are concerned, the obligation to make commitments is a possibility mentioned by the Minister of Finance. There may also be other possible options, but the important thing is to get something in place as soon as possible. We cannot have the twitching that we see now, where the tax rises sharply in December and then hopefully falls equally sharply in August. We need to have much longer-term rules if we are to achieve a fossil-free fleet by 2030.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-610	Mr President, I would like to I have already made my final contribution, because I thought my last speech was the last one, so I would just like to conclude by thanking you for the debate.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-611	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me two questions in two interpellations. First of all, Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I am prepared to come forward with a proposal to abolish the requirement for overnight transport so that the social mission only involves delivering mail within two or three days. Secondly, Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I think it would be desirable to release the price of postage freely in order to improve the functioning of the market and thus to stimulate the digitisation of postal services which are currently in service. I reply to the two interpellations in one context. To answer the questions, I would like to refer to comitology directives, a review of postal legislation in a digitised society, which the government decided on 13 August 2015. The study will review the need for overnight delivery of letters as part of the universal postal service in the light of the rapid development of electronic communication options in recent years. This includes describing the consequences of a possible phasing out of overnight mail as part of the universal postal service and proposing alternative solutions. The investigation shall also review the need for price cap regulation under the Postal Regulation. This includes describing the consequences of a possible phasing out of the price cap and examining whether there are still groups in society that need to be protected by a price cap and, if so, proposing the appropriate construction of such a price cap. These elements shall be presented in a partial report by 31 March of this year at the latest. I look forward to hearing the proposals of the investigation on these important issues.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-619	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. The question of how the mail service works, looks and is connected is an issue that affects large parts of the population daily. This affects our companies and the business community as a whole. Especially when we get out in the countryside a little bit, it becomes a very important function of society. At the same time, society is undergoing digitalisation, where it is increasingly developing to be able to communicate via digital media. The State has quite large incentives for the expansion of fibre. That is something on which there is political agreement. This reduces the volume of letters in the Swedish postal system, while increasing the volume of packages. We are creating a completely different postal market compared to what it looked like earlier. Here, the Government and I have had some initial discussions. Perhaps we can find another perspective in the discussion here today. I asked the questions about overnight transport and the price of postage because there are two parts of the equation that will need to be reviewed one way or the other. I, too, look forward to the conclusions of the investigation that is now under way. Mr President, I would like to In its reply, the Government leaves no trace of political ambition in this area. It is, in fact, correct that you as a minister do not go in and anticipate the conclusions of an investigation. Instead, let me put the question to the Government: what political ambitions does the Government have for the postal market in relation to the digital communications market for which he is also responsible for broadband expansion, telecommunications and so on? Does the Government mean that it is the government's position that the postal service should have the same basic requirements and the same starting point for what is a public service in the 2000s, when we have an increasingly well-developed IT infrastructure in Sweden, as it had in the 80s before the Internet's intrusion into living rooms and in the business world? It is an issue that is at such a level that the Government should be able to develop what the government's policy is in this area. I have been looking with light and lantern for some kind of indication of what ambition one is with the government. Budget proposals and other things do not describe this as detailed as might have been hoped. In the first budget bill, it was only briefly mentioned that an investigation would eventually be set up. At that stage, what it would achieve was somewhat unclear. It feels like you have been hit by this issue after you entered the government rather than having a vision of how the policy would be conducted when you went into the Government Office. I look forward very much to hearing the Government develop how he views the role of postal services in the digitised society and whether we can continue to expect the same basic range of postal services despite the very extensive digitalisation that we see.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-626	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for the question and the follow-up questions. Digitalisation is something that permeates the entire society both here at home in Sweden and in many other countries. It also affects the traditional way of sending letters and complements it with many opportunities to share information in e-mails but also in social media. Digitalisation is also ongoing in all EU countries and affects postal operators to varying degrees. I was in Brussels yesterday, and I saw with a broken heart what happened there this morning. When I was in Brussels, I met people who worked on the issues from different perspectives. It is possible to look at how the national requirements on the duration of universal postal service are also different across the EU. It is an entrance to what we need to be able to take a stand on. We can only do that when the report is submitted to us. Among other things, Finland and France have legislated for services with dividends within two working days. The scope of the universal postal service differs widely from one country to another. For example, mail is completely excluded from the universal postal service in some countries. That is also something we need to know. As Erik Ottoson points out in the interpellation, the postal market is greatly affected by this digitalisation. Digitalization is fast. I am in charge of broadband deployment at national level. There, the government has made a great deal of effort. Among other things, we have ensured that we have broadband support in the rural programme, which unfortunately seems to be at a disadvantage. It is a way of expanding where the market will otherwise not be able to cope with the expansion. One can look at just overnight transport, which is an important part here. There I look forward to seeing the analysis of the investigation. The political entrance is really about creating good conditions for everyone in Sweden to have access to universal service. It is also important that these services can be adapted to new solutions such as digitalisation. That is also why an investigation is very important. The government's entry into the area is to be able to make a broad consensus on what will apply in Sweden in the future. As it is a minority government, just like the government in the last parliamentary term, it is important that we have a good basis for taking decisions in this House. There I hope for an understanding and a sense of what such a solution might look like. However, it is again extremely important that we wait and take note of the analysis and proposals of the investigation in the interim report that is submitted within just a few weeks.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-634	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the developed thoughts, Minister! For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that the overnight transport of many of my generation living in cities is something that one does not consider at all that it exists. If, on the other hand, you are in the countryside, the perspective may be different. Everything has to be set in relation to what it costs. In this case, there is a great deal of air transport with aircraft from every possible corner of the kingdom that must go every night to meet the demand. They are not always motivated by volumes so that the aircraft carrying the consignments are full. There is an internet service that you can have on your phone or computer where you can see which aircraft are moving across Sweden. Somewhere at 23 or 24 in the evening you can see how a series of airplanes are taking off at the same time. It can be quite interesting for those who find such things exciting. However, this says something about the environmental perspective on the issue and about what improvements could be made in this context. So we are not talking about the need to extend delivery times very much. It is about that instead of putting the letter on the mailbox at 16th in Ystad and it is there in the mailbox at someone in Kiruna at 10 a.m. The next 10 days may take another 24 hours. Most people today who use the postal service to send letters are probably counting on it to be able to go for a few more days because you don't trust that overnight transport works fully. I have full sympathy for the group of companies that need this requirement for their business. However, I can draw the parallel to some traders in the Stockholm area with whom I myself have contact and who have the same needs. They do not use the post office that is in the community mission, but they use couriers. In this way, they know that the consignments arrive. I understand that the situation is different in rural areas, but it still says something about the challenges we face. I, like the Government, look forward to the interim report that will come in just a few weeks' time. I may be inattentive, but I did not quite understand whether the Government actually believes that we will need to review the scope of the social mission in order to face digitalisation. Large amounts of tax money are being invested in expanding the IT infrastructure. One way of looking at it would be to count some of those investments in the form of other adjustments at the end of what we call ordinary mail. Is that a vision shared by the Government? Or is he also of the opinion that the social mission should be based on the fact that this is necessary for rural areas, particularly in order to ensure competitiveness? So you should not have to move into the city to carry out a business that benefits from that kind of mail.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-642	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Erik Ottoson, for the follow-up question! Erik Ottoson is on an important issue when it comes to the differences in our elongated country. Cities have certain conditions that rural areas do not have. If you look at how a shift to digitalisation takes place, you see that it is important that digital solutions are complemented with other, in some cases, traditional communication opportunities for everyone in Sweden to have access to universal service in the future. We work hard – we took on a work that the old government had carried out in large parts – with a digitization of the whole country. We will get fast and stable broadband for everyone. Today, the population is covered by a speed equal to 4G. Over 99% of households have access to this speed, which can be achieved in some cases. We know that fibre is a smart way to distribute broadband. At the same time, there are some other countries in our neighbourhood that have opted out of fibre or invested in more copper, and today they feel that they are at a dead end. However, I do not want to anticipate the investigator's conclusions, but it is important to wait for the link in between. When it comes to overnight transport, it is important to understand that Sweden as a country must be within the limits of the requirements of the Postal Directive. We do not have a wide-ranging framework, but Sweden must meet the time requirements set out in the Postal Directive for the carriage of cross-border mail within the EU. It is also linked to how we manage overnight transport in our own country. There are minimum levels within the EU for cross-border promotion of three and five days respectively. If you want to see some kind of ceiling for how long it can take, you can broaden the view and think about what this means in a European perspective. In the final report, the investigator will propose changes to the existing Postal Directive as well. So there is a holistic approach here. What groups, then, will find themselves in a precarious situation? The investigator shall identify the groups in society that need the overnight delivery of letters to be included in the universal postal service. It is important both for me as the IT minister responsible for postal matters and for Erik Ottoson who thinks that the issue is important that it is properly highlighted. Otherwise, we're in uncertainty. It is good to wait for this. I also thought I heard Erik Ottoson say that it is.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-648	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the ideas developed! I would like to conclude with a few words on the second question in the second interpellation on the price of postage. Today we have a market in this area that is living a wasteful life. We have discussed VAT at the postage office in the past. Let me put it this way: if the investigation concludes that the stamp price is to be adjusted or in any way dropped freely in order to create market prices in this area – is it something that the Government is in such a case prepared to proceed with in order to create a more dynamic postal market? Or does the Government consider it important that we have a postage cap to make sure that it is not too expensive to send ordinary letters? That is the question to which I believe the Government, although the inquiry has not yet come up with its interim report, should be able to provide an answer. My personal view is that we have a future that you can possibly see when you look at Denmark, where the volume of letters is very much smaller than they are in Sweden. The Danish State has as its starting point that all communications should be made digitally among itself, but also towards citizens. That is not a bad starting point in the 21st century. I am convinced – and I have also received signals about this – that it is successful to meet the needs of those who do not feel they want to communicate digitally but who want to do so manually. I have put my question to the Government and look forward to the final answer.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-652	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Erik Ottoson, for the interpellation debate! It concerns an issue that is usually more important for rural areas, but Erik Ottoson raises the issue in a big city perspective, which is also important. With regard to Swedish postage, it is important to know that the current price cap is regulated in the Postal Regulation. This means that Postnord is not allowed to raise postage for domestic carriage of single overnight mail up to 500 grams by more than the increases in consumer price indices. The price cap was introduced in 1998 to protect the consumer against excessive price increases. It is important to know that we in Sweden do not have many areas with price regulations. We have a strong tradition of free pricing that both our parties strive for. Price regulation is usually only considered in markets that lack effective competition and where there is a high level of protection for groups that may be in danger as a result of price increases. An example of state price regulation is the retail margin of pharmacies on prescription medicines. I know that the Swedish postage for overnight-paid letters is lower than in our neighbouring countries, Norway, Finland and, as Erik Ottoson mentioned, Denmark. But it is difficult to tell how much this depends on the price cap. Looking at what has been investigated in the past, it can be seen that in the final report of the postal and cash services inquiry, the postal market in change was proposed to remove the price cap, which the government at the time did not consider. Therefore, the government has asked the current investigation to review whether the price cap is still needed and how it could be designed. I look forward to seeing the investigator's analysis. I wish Erik Ottoson and everyone else here a happy Easter!
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-657	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what I intend to do to make it easier for chronic cancer patients so that they can work full time but at the same time get the treatment they deserve. Furthermore, she asks me whether I intend to revise the directives to the Social Insurance Agency for all those with chronic diseases who on certain specific occasions need treatment. I think these are important issues that Lotta Finstorp raises. The design of health insurance shall be general. At the same time, it must be flexible enough to take account of the individual needs of women and men. An individual may receive preventive sickness benefit for the time it takes to receive medical treatment. Such sickness benefit is provided as full, three quarters, half or a quarter sickness benefit. The rules on the withdrawal date do not apply in the case of preventive sickness benefit. Preventive sickness benefit can be combined with regular sickness benefit. This is important as the treatment itself can be very stressful. The patient may need to recover and not work after this. Sickness benefit and preventive sickness benefit are so-called daily benefits and can be provided on the basis of the situation on a given day. For some time now, the western region of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, together with the oncology, has been carrying out a project aimed at developing cooperation and facilitating cooperation for patients. The project will run until the autumn. A preliminary assessment is that the current regulatory framework provides for flexible solutions. On the other hand, there are a lot of administrative difficulties for the Agency. I have visited the project myself and think it seems very interesting. Experience should be useful in other parts of the country. If it turns out that the regulatory framework needs to be changed, I am open to such proposals.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-663	Mr President, I would like to The rapid positive medical development places new demands on health insurance. Chronic cancer patients, as well as patients with other chronic conditions, must receive continuous treatment or treatment at regular intervals to keep their disease in check. On these occasions, the cancer sufferer often has to stay at home after treatment because it causes such side effects, and is then forced to take a vacation a few days a month, or go down in working hours, after which the Social Insurance Agency refuses a flexible sickness benefit. A few weeks ago, I met the Blood Cancer Association. They informed me about the problems that arise in an inflexible sickness benefit system. Today, research has progressed so that many of the people who have these diagnoses live as chronologists for many years. In the past, forecasts were often poor, but fortunately today there are good treatment methods that allow you to live a good life with your illness. The Minister mentions preventive sickness benefit in his reply. The fact that it is a good alternative to sick leave is entirely in line with my view, but it is not relevant to many patient groups, for example if you live with a chronic cancer disease. The reason is that preventive sickness benefit is intended for patients whose goal is to prevent illness or to shorten the duration of the illness. Those who are chronologists need treatment regularly, and their illness can neither be prevented nor shortened. Rather, it is about extending life expectancy or improving the quality of life for the individual. What this large group of chronicles needs is a much greater flexibility in the health insurance system than today. According to Försäkringskassan, preventive sickness benefit can only be used for absence in connection with treatment and when travelling to and from the health care system in connection with treatment. It cannot be used for post-treatment absences, for example, for side effects caused by the treatment. If you need to be absent for the side effects, you must take out regular sickness benefit immediately after the preventive sickness benefit. And for each new illness, a new Karen's Day applies. It does not feel like the system stimulates to be at work maximum in connection with cancer treatment, i.e. to be able to work 100 percent of their own ability. The system puts away the feet of anyone who wants to work as much as possible. Instead, it stimulates the patient to take out a longer absence to avoid all days of withdrawal during the cancer treatment period. This raises a lot of questions. Does the Minister think that health insurance should stimulate one to be able to work 100% of one's ability? Who is the winner of such an inflexible and out-of-time system as we now have? I see that there are really only losers, both socio-economically and on an individual level. Employers also lose because they have to be away in a different way than if they could get a flexible sick leave.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-670	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for this input! On this issue, I should like to make it clear that I am in no way in favour of any other opinion than that we need to make things easier in this part. In my in terpellation response, I mentioned the project currently under way in the Västra Götaland region between Försäkringskassan, Regional Cancer Centre West and the cancer clinics in the Västra Götaland region. It is an extremely exciting project where you have the perspective that it should be possible to switch between working and, if necessary, when you are under treatment, being able to have the absence that you consider necessary. In part, one leans on a previous project that was similar. This project focuses on cancer patients, just as Lotta Finstorp mentions. The previous project was about breast cancer patients, and you look at the results from it. The results show, among other things, that those who participated in that project had significantly fewer days of sickness benefit– the exchange between sickness benefit and work– than those who were registered for sick leave throughout the treatment period. In fact, over a six-month period, the average was 94 sick days for those who continued to work to some extent and were able to change, while the control group that was on sick leave throughout the treatment period had 140 sick days. But it was not the most important result of this project, but it was the benefit that these patients themselves described when the project ended, namely, the gain of the feeling of freedom that came with their being able to decide from day to day how much they were able to work. The fact that they remained in social contact with the work also made the patients feel healthier. As I mentioned to Lotta Finstorp, I met Försäkringskassan and those working on this project in Västra Götaland. They describe the corresponding results. What has been a bit troubling is that when you started this project that focused on cancer was quite extensive in its interpretation of the regulations, which meant that you got slapped on the fingers by the lawyers – now I'm very straight and honest. This has led to compliance with the acquis, which has become a little clearer, and attempts are being made to deal with the situation within the framework of it. The project will run until September 2016. At the end of this, it is tasked to return to the government and the Ministry of Social Affairs with proposals for such changes as you wish to see. It should also be said that the new project examines several different ways, within the framework of the regulatory framework, to make it easier to combine work with treatment. In particular, the application for preventive sickness benefit and sickness benefit must be made on the same form. Doctors should be able to issue certificates that apply to all three types of replacement that may be relevant, as Lotta Finstorp well knows – all to make it easier for patients.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-678	Mr President, I would like to The project in Västra Götaland is very interesting. My question was: how will the Minister make use of the good result? I got a certain answer to that question. This should apply in general throughout Sweden to the long-term or chronic conditions where you have to receive regular, entertaining treatment. Today's health insurance system where you have fixed sickness rates in the form of full, three-quarters, half or quarter sickness benefits is not very flexible. This is a major step, and we have debated it in the past, between working 25% and moving to work 50% with a disease in the body. I think the time is ripe now, given all the medical advances that are being made, because the system becomes much more flexible based on the individual's need to be on sick leave. Many chronicles with entertaining treatment describe that when you receive your treatment, it is difficult to know how you will react to the treatment. It is also very individual what side effects and consequential effects the treatment entails. It is now time to have a much more flexible level of sick leave, given the state of research and progress. The greater the choice available in the sick leave system, the more the sick leave can be adapted to a specific treatment and to a specific individual, who is unique in many different ways, based on side effects that reduce work capacity. There are only winners if you could do it that way. I think the experiment in Västra Götaland is extremely interesting. When it is implemented, I very much hope that this can be introduced in general throughout the country. There are many who are in touch and who know about the project and want them to take part of it also in other parts of the country. Many describe that Försäkringskassan's administration is very complicated for those who are not on full-time sick leave or on sick leave based on the fixed levels. Sometimes it can be at least as difficult to deal with it as having your diagnosis and disease. We must try to deal with this. It is not okay that when you have contacts with Försäkringskassan you should experience it as difficult. You copy paper and send it in, and it'll never be right. I will later describe such an experience that I have very close to. A week ago I read in the OT about a desperate parent who had a child with leukemia. In Försäkringskassan's rules it is very clear that when caring for sick children, Försäkringskassan's task is to decide to pay out many of the benefits. If you are a parent of a seriously ill child who is under the age of 18, you are entitled to temporary parental benefit for an unlimited number of days. This parent will now pay back the sickness allowance that she has received during the days that the child has been able to attend school. It's very strange, I think. I would like the Minister to comment on this.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-685	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the input, Lotta Finstorp! I agree that medical developments are taking place very quickly. The regulatory framework that I started with on preventive sickness benefit came into existence in 1992 and has not changed much since then, which means that there is every reason to develop the regulatory framework with regard to chronics and cancer patients. Previous projects dealing with breast cancer patients have been evaluated. In addition to describing the benefits of combining treatment and work and being in a social context, it describes what Lotta Finstorp also mentions, namely that the administration of sickness benefit was complicated. Even Försäkringskassan has already lifted this link to the project that is currently being carried out. It is cumbersome administrative for Försäkringskassan, now that you need to comply with the regulations by the book. What Försäkringskassan did in 2015 was a legal quality monitoring of preventive sickness benefit decisions. The quality follow-up showed that the regulations were handled in different ways across the country. As a result, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency clarified its guidance that preventive sickness benefit, as Lotta Finstorp says, should only be provided for the time the treatment prevents work including travel. It is perhaps a background to the frustration if Lotta Finstorp has experienced in the dialogue with blood cancer patients. As the timeframes look like, the idea is to make proposals in autumn 2016 that can make it easier for the insured, healthcare and Försäkringskassan. Hopefully, the proposals will land my table so that we can take the issues further. The sickness allowance that you can get in fixed parts is something that I and Lotta Finstorp have discussed before, so that question is also included in this. From the discussions we have had, I believe that there are no huge differences between us and the Moderates on this issue. If you have further concrete input, we are very happy to accept such proposals, so that we do not miss anything in the work that is now to be done.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-691	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the Minister's sensitivity. There's not a lot of right or wrong in this. We are living in a social security system that is not fully rigged for the new era that we are already in on new research, new medicines and so on. That is why the Social Insurance investigation was set up, to prepare proposals based on what Sweden looks like today and how people live and have it. Preventive sickness benefit is used relatively sparingly. It is very unfortunate that people deal with the different things across the country. Of course, something has to be done about that. It must not be a legally insecure system. The more flexible solutions in a system, the greater the risk that it may be applied differently across the country. But it is safe to find solutions here. Many testify to the inflexibility of the system. If you want to work, and if you in a health insurance system assume that all people really want to work, it can then be adapted to this. I would like to give another example, briefly. It is a loved one who has a cancer disease that thanks to research progress is kept in check with license preparations. She is one of three patients in Sweden. She has a medical certificate that allows 100% sick leave, but she wants to work. She goes to treatment two days a month. So she has had to go down in working hours to cope with the two days when she is in for treatment. It shouldn't have to be like that. You live with a terrible disease. In addition, you have to go down that much financially. We need to find more flexible solutions.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-696	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for sharing that example! We know this now. Above all, it was a clear eye opener for me when I visited the project in Västra Götaland and got to meet those who had actually had a great benefit from this. I have also taken note of previous results from projects that have tried this. If you think about it, it's pretty obvious. One suffers from a severe disease that takes over a lot in life. You can also find yourself in a situation where you no longer have contact with the social life of many people at work. Then, of course, we need to develop our social security systems so that they support an opportunity that is positive both for the individual and for society at large. This project explores several ways to simplify for the individual and simplify administration. You can see how you can do this. It has also worked very actively with employers. The project has developed a special information material for employers. It increases the knowledge among employers that there are actually good opportunities today to work even during cancer treatment. It is also about changing the mind of those of us who are around in society. This has been received very positively. There have also been local interaction meetings with employers, where they have really met and talked this through with good results. I would like to emphasise once again that it is our ambition, if we get concrete proposals on the table, to really change this situation. I look forward to further dialogue on this issue.
i-8cd81mJ1FKKs3vaURc3L7t	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the interpellation, Lotta Finstorp! Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce regional disparities in the number of sick leavers and what I intend to take for measures if unequal care is a reason for regional differences in the number of sick leave. Since 2010, absenteeism has increased sharply. It is mainly women's sick leave that is increasing, and mental illness is today the most common reason for sick leave for both women and men. At the same time, regional differences in the number of sick leave days are significant. Breaking development and stabilizing sick leave is one of the government's most important issues. The Government's objective is that the sickness benefit rate should not exceed nine days at the end of 2020. To achieve this objective, action needs to be taken in all regions and by all stakeholders. In the action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave, the government takes a concerted approach to the areas that need to be developed and where measures need to be taken to increase health, break negative development and stabilise sickness absence. A priority area is to adapt primary care activities for people with mental illness and long-term pain. An important measure is the agreement that the Government and SKL signed in December 2015 and which provides the county councils with SEK 1.5 billion in incentives for quality improvement in healthcare. Among other things, the individualised rehabilitation efforts for patients with mental illness and long-term pain are strengthened. In this context, I would also like to mention the Commission on Equal Health set up by the Government. The Commission's mission is based on the Government's objective of closing the avoidable health gaps within a generation. Another priority of the Government's action programme is to increase knowledge about sick leave practices and sick leave patterns. The Government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to update the policy support to ensure that the recommended sick leave periods follow the current knowledge development. The Government will instruct relevant authorities to analyse differences in sick leave patterns and practices between, for example, different regions and primary care units. It goes without saying that we should have fair and equal health insurance throughout the country, but regional differences will always exist, because the situation is different in different regions and municipalities. The local labour market and demographic disparities are examples of factors contributing to regional disparities. However, there should not be unjustified differences in sick leave due to differences in sickness leave practices or care and treatment. I am convinced that the measures taken by the government will help to address unjustified regional differences in sick leave.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-708	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an interesting question, I think, There is not right or wrong or anyone who can point out that it is because of this very thing. I've been trying to read myself into old investigations. In the period 1970 - 2001 it looked much the same as it is today. There are many analysts over the years who have tried to pinpoint what this may be due to. I looked at a report that the Swedish National Insurance Agency did in 2003– I did so based on what I have found that is in the present. The phenomenon was difficult to grasp even then. Norrlandslänen has been above the national average for the period 1970-2001 for the period 1970-2001. In Halland, Jönköping and Uppsala County, the health rate has been below the national average throughout this period. It looks basically the same today. The high levels of ill health in Norrlandslänen were explained in the 2003 report mainly by a large group of early retirement pensioners. Sick leave in these counties was in the mid-1990s at the level of the national average. The big gap between Norrlandslänen and the counties with the lowest unhealthy numbers arose some way into the 90s. I haven't seen anyone who's been able to explain it either. It is not consistent with recession and boom and such. Today, the incidence of illness is generally significantly higher in sparsely populated areas and in the north of the country than in other regions. Relatively densely populated Norrland municipalities had in 2000 more sickness cases per inhabitant for both men and women than sparsely populated municipalities further south, while sparsely populated municipalities had more early retirements. But I have chosen not to look at those who have sickness and activity benefits but more at regular sick leave, so to speak. ISF wrote a report in 2010 on regional disparities – many have tried to put their finger on it. It says: The current high level of unexplained regional disparities may signal some uncertainty in the application of the rules. ..................................................... Then I think like this: During all these years doctors and staff at Försäkringskassan have been changed. There must be something else that keeps it going the same way. There are reports and studies showing that sick leave rates are higher where there are few employers, for example where the municipality is a large and dominant employer and where women in particular do not have multiple employers to choose from. I think that is very interesting politically. The imposition of charges on alternative health and social care activities, for example, and the prevention of multiple employers in those sectors could make it even more difficult to achieve a more equal treatment across the country. I think it's connected very much. There are also counties, regions and municipalities where you can see that sick leave is used as a labour market regulator. My question to the Minister, then, is: does the Minister think that it can be a partial declaration even today, that is to say that sick leave works, in some parts of the country, as labour market solutions?
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-718	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! I share the picture that is painted that this is extremely complex. It was also very interesting. I, too, have been following this for a few decades, but not since 1970. But I'm not surprised either that it's been like this for a long time. I therefore share the view that it is complex, and there are many different explanations for this. One of them, as was also found earlier, is that there is no doubt that there is also a labour market factor in it. High unemployment, for example, means that there are fewer opportunities to find alternative sources of income, so sick leave can be higher. We can see that. That has been the case, and it has been proven several times. We know, for example, from previous studies that heart attack and breast cancer patients were generally sickly registered longer in Norrlandslänen than in other counties, and in sparsely populated areas compared to the rest of the country. There are also demographic factors which play a role to some extent, but these, as I understand it, have a more marginal effect than other factors. What we can also see is that when sick leave decreases, regional differences also decrease, and when sick leave rises, these differences are accentuated. I believe that if Sweden is to succeed in achieving a low and stable absence, we must also dare to look at this issue with open eyes. One thing that is of course extremely important, and that is also why it is included in the government package of measures from last autumn, is the parts about sick leave practices and about making comparative analyses of why it is different across the country. Then we may not come up with any other outcome than the previous investigations, but this is there. These are also a number of quite concrete measures, such as further strengthening decision-making support. I also believe that the work that the government is now doing within the framework of the Commission on Equal Health is very important, because it is, in essence, somewhere so that it is a very important political responsibility to ensure that the availability of care and treatment and the quality of care and treatment are, in fact, as much as possible equivalent across the country. This is something that is very much part of the government's ambitions, along with all the other measures that we are also proposing, in the task that we are now going to give to authorities that are concerned with analysing the differences in sick leave practices, between different regions and also between primary care units. We are also considering how to examine the possibility of actually following up on individual doctors'way of writing sick. The mission also includes developing the transparent comparisons, follow-ups and sick leave patterns, and it is a work that the government will try to do in consultation with the Swedish Medical Association, with the Swedish Medical Association and the health care authorities. A few weeks ago, I and Gabriel Wikström started a conversation with representatives of the health sector, which includes these parts.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-726	Mr President, I would like to I think that, above all, we would have to delve into and analyse this with different periods of sick leave for the same diagnoses. I hope that this will be done now, because cooperation between primary and health care is extremely important to look at. They're the ones on sick leave anyway. Then I think that the Eso report on the driving forces of the health insurance system, the anatomy of sickness insurance, is worth reading. There is, among other things, a suggestion, or what to say, that only certain doctors should be allowed to write out sick – doctors who have a special competence perhaps in occupational medicine or who may be able to work more than a general doctor in a health centre. They also write that the capitulation model can make you write sick more quickly because you get paid more numbers, per stick as well. Therefore, one would need to see what the relationship looks like between, for example, Norrland and Jönköping County. There is also a report from 2005 where the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise compared Gislaved in Jönköping County with Strömsund in Jämtland County. It is Frykman and Hansen who have done the report, and they have looked at the culture of sick leave. This was 2005, so it was eleven years ago, but somehow the statistics look the same now. The researchers note that in Strömsund, every sick leave is about getting a diagnosis that you can carry with a high head, i.e. that you have worn yourself out because you have worked so hard. In Gislaved, they describe, it is rather the case that sick leave is seen as an accident, that you have had bad luck. It is something you really don't want to talk about very much, and you really want to make sure that you don't get caught up in it any longer than you have to. Of course, if that is the case, a culture of sick leave is also characterized by this. Then I think that many of the regions and county councils have very many rent doctors who go around at different health centres throughout the country, and therefore it is even stranger if there are cultural differences that have stuck. I think this is a really interesting question that I sometimes feel I want to do research on! But I love being here, so I'm staying here. Regardless of where we look in the country, we see that it is among women in the public sector that we have high sickness rates, and we have made moderate proposals that conversion aid is extremely important. It is important to be able to change employers, to be able to retrain to another profession, to dare to do so without losing too much money, because that is often what it is all about. We are talking about women between the ages of 40 and 55, where we see that things go awry, and then you are a breadwinner. You have to know that you have a safe income. I therefore believe that conversion support in some form is extremely important in order for us to reduce sickness rates among civil servants, and there must be different employers to choose from if you want to remain as a nurse, for example.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-734	Mr President, I would like to These are, as I said, very complex issues, and I am thinking precisely of the situation in which we are now standing and which we have been standing for quite some time, namely that it is the mental diagnoses that dominate. It is easy to moderate psychological diagnoses that are the most common, and I think one of the incredibly important issues forward is that in fact much more start moving the picture of sick leave to that sick leave should be a treatment method among others. It is also the case that research and development have shown us that when it comes to these particular diagnoses, it is not obvious that the absolute best thing in any case is to get sick leave on a full-time basis, away from your workplace. I am thinking of this in relation to the interpellation debate that we had here earlier when we talked about breast cancer patients who describe how much better, healthier and freer you felt when you had the opportunity to also have a foot in working life and in the social context. I think that's very human, and it's about all of us. On the other hand, I do not want to avoid the question of de facto tackling regional disparities in so far as it is possible to do so. Of course, there are always certain demographic factors and other things, but I think that the development of decision support, which is also accompanied by the development that we see in terms of the knowledge situation in society in general, is very important. The improved decision support for the mental diagnoses that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has had the government's mission to work with should be completed this autumn and start to be implemented around the country. It is extremely important that we get started with the analyses around the country. Then the Social Insurance Agency – I understand they are on that ball – may also have to work in a slightly different way regionally to get to the problem. With the experience that I have with me, I see a picture where it would be good to be able to introduce some kind of system that makes it possible to identify the sick doctors. There have been thoughts about introducing some type of prescription code and following the pattern of sick leave down to individual doctors. I keep in mind that Lotta Finstorp mentioned the high frequency of relay doctors moving around in primary care. I think that would be good. I would like to stress that we are not only taking this action programme, but are also focusing significant efforts on primary care in order to better adapt the activities of primary care to those suffering from mental illness and long-term pain. This is an important area of development.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-740	Mr President, I would like to There are major differences in the regional and at all in the health insurance system. The concept of mental illness becomes for the general public and for many in politics. It's about everything from stress related fatigue syndrome to psychosis. Primary care psychiatry or primary care must deal with those who arrive with stress-related fatigue syndrome more separately than today. It needs to be national guidelines, and they need to be updated on the basis of what is happening and what is happening today. The minister said something interesting about following the medical doctors. I do not know if such an analysis has been carried out in recent years. That would be interesting to know. This also applies to what is described in the ESO report. It is about continuing education and training. Doctors on sick leave must have knowledge. It must be difficult to write someone off sick unless you have knowledge of what a workplace looks like today. I still live in my picture of how the industry works. I assume that also applies to many of the doctors. Medical doctors do not have it so easy today because reality is so complex. In terms of mental illness, one must look specifically at what is about fatigue syndrome and not look at the full range of psychiatric diagnoses.
i-2700ae9ad72b7abe-744	Mr President, I would like to We note that it is not the heavier psychiatric diagnosis that accounts for the majority of sick leave for women. They make up a small part. But sick leave due to mental diagnoses and problems with the organs together accounts for 65 percent of all sick leave for women. The average in the country is around 62%. It's huge. We know that the way in which occupational health care is used in such situations is currently different across the country. This means that many end up with a primary care that is currently not dimensioned or in other ways equipped to deal with what is actually an overwhelming proportion of those who are getting sick leave in Sweden today. We have to deal with this. Otherwise, we will never get rid of sick leave. I am absolutely convinced of that. We do not know much, and the question is whether we will find out more if we examine these issues. But of course we're gonna do it. In parallel, we have to make sure we do things. It is about the ability of primary care to deal with these patients, and it is about sick leave as a treatment method for some of these diagnoses. We need to take a step. I have said it before, and I say it again: this is one of the government's absolute priorities. I am pleased that we are debating these issues today and that we can hopefully help to move around on these issues.
