i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-8	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what initiatives I have taken to strengthen and adapt legislation to better protect individuals who have been victims of, for example, revenge porn offences. I would like to begin by emphasising that it is, of course, totally unacceptable to spread, for example, filmed sexual acts against someone's will. It is a serious violation of the integrity of those who are exposed. It is mainly girls and young women who are affected. It is important for the government to ensure that there is adequate criminal law protection against threats and violations regardless of whether they occur online or in other forums. The emergence of the Internet has brought about positive changes for freedom of expression and democratic debate. However, these developments have also led to new forms of threats and other forms of violations of privacy. The criminal law protection of personal integrity must therefore be adapted to the development of society and modern technology. Dissemination of films with sexual content against someone's will is, in most cases, already punishable as gross slander. Therefore, although many reprehensible acts are already punishable, there is reason to consider whether the level of criminal protection is strong enough. An investigation therefore has the task of, among other things, making proposals on how extended criminal law protection against the dissemination of images or other data with a sensitive content could be designed outside the constitutionally protected area. The investigation should also consider whether more qualified defamatory offences should be able to give rise to the right to compensation for damages. The investigation will report on its mission next week, and I would like to anticipate that report. Once the investigation has been submitted, I am prepared to come back with proposals for legislative changes and other measures that need to be taken.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-14	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Revenge porn is still an unfamiliar concept for many. Just as the minister describes, it's usually about a guy or you having a picture or film of a not rarely young girl in a sexual context. It can be secretly filmed or taken in concert at the moment. But at some point, maybe when the girl breaks up, revenge the guy or the man by putting it on the internet. Not infrequently, the film or image then finds itself to any porn site, where it will then never be able to be deleted. Today, this type of crime falls under what is called slanderous crime. It results in a few thousand fines if the guy or the man is convicted. Mr President, I would like to Today's legislation and the Minister are talking about this in terms of slanderous crimes. It is an old law that is supposed to deal with a completely different type of crime from the one we see on the Internet today. Today's slander laws, the one in the law book right now, were written 40 years before the Internet even existed. It goes without saying that this legislation is out of date and not adapted to current online crime. Revenge porn is supposed to be a sexual crime, not a slanderous crime. Putting up a sex movie with your ex-girlfriend to get revenge when she's broken up is nothing more than a virtual rape. A young woman has her life ruined and is forced to move and change school or work. She is forced to continue living her life knowing that she is forever on the Internet, where everyone can see her having sex. Ruining a young woman's life must cost more than a few thousand in fines. Whoever does this should be in jail and nothing else. Other countries such as Germany, Israel, the United Kingdom and parts of the United States have already understood how this type of crime harms the victim. There, men who commit this type of crime risk considerably higher fines and prison sentences of up to five years. Today's young people in Sweden are growing up in a constantly connected world. Smart phones and constant internet access mean that in many ways the digital world is no longer distinguishable from the real, as everything is connected. Today's legislation does not provide sufficient protection for our young people, who live a large part of their lives in social media. We need to do a lot in many areas so that young people do not get hurt with the new technology. Let us start by calling sex crimes on the Internet for sexual crimes and ensuring that they are punished accordingly! Mr President, I would like to I would like to interpret the Minister as thinking of toughing up legislation in this area. Ruining a young woman's life must cost more than a few thousand in fines. I will continue to work for it and, as I interpret the Minister, he will participate in it.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-23	Mr President, I would like to I am not just going to participate in this; I am going to try to do something about it. I think we have a common ambition to that extent. I share Edward Riedl's reasoning in most parts. In addition, the interpellation will therefore be very timely, as I will be receiving an investigation on Wednesday next week, which has been reviewing this particular legislation. This is as Edward Riedl says a big and growing problem. We have old-fashioned legislation to deal with, created in a completely different time. Just look at the rules about slander and defamation – those rules came about at a time when perhaps one wanted to prosecute gossip in the district and defamation. They wanted to punish pure insults face - to - face. That's what happened back then. But the new technology makes this kind of slander and gossip and to post pictures and films of the type that Edward Riedl is talking about much greater and do much more harm. For one thing, they remain forever, these pictures or films. People may forget slander normally, but the internet never forgets. It'll always be there. Second, it can reach you anywhere. You can move from the village where you may have been exposed to gossip and slander, but you can never move from the internet. It will reach you everywhere. Sometime in the future, for example when you are looking for a job and the employer Googles your name, there will suddenly be pictures, gossip, slander, untrue data or whatever it is we are talking about. The question is broader than this; it concerns revenge porn, which is one of the worst elements, but there are many other elements. This could ruin people's lives. That's it. We need to modernise, strengthen and tighten up legislation. We must ensure that this is better combated. As I said, it is so fortunate that I will receive an investigation with a number of suggestions as early as next week. I will not go ahead with the events, but I would like to say that I want clearer legislation in this way. The dissemination of such images or films shall be unequivocally criminal. We also need stronger legislation overall in terms of the sanctions that the perpetrator may face. We should also be able to obtain compensation for crime, I think, if we are exposed to these kinds of violations. As I said, we will have a proposal next week. It will be a customary period of referral, and then I will go to Parliament as soon as possible with new legislation so that we can correct this. I am sure that a broad majority in Parliament will be behind tighter rules in this area.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-31	Mr President, I would like to Revenge porn can be both moving images and still images, sneaky or volunteers. They may be stolen images, and they may be distributed online or otherwise. Usually it is a guy or man who wants revenge on a girl or young woman and therefore makes the material public on the internet. That kind of pictures and movies then end up on porn sites where they can never be removed. The problem is that the dissemination of such films and images in today's legislation is treated as slanderous crimes – I note that the Minister returns to it several times – and that is a pity. I think we should call sexual crime what it is, namely sexual crime and not slander. We need to redeploy the legislation, and that must happen as soon as possible. Ruining a young person's life and resulting in a few thousand fines is not reasonable. This crime can affect young girls and boys but also older people. The most common thing is that it affects young girls and women, but it can affect just any young person growing up in our society today. The Minister described it well. The legislation was developed at a time when it would deal with gossip in the countryside. That is not what it looks like today. The same guy who today puts the movies or pictures on the internet, where they end up on the porn sites and can never be deleted, spread before the internet maybe some reputation that for the girl was unfavorable. However, as the Minister was aware, it was possible to move away from it, even if it was not optimal. It was possible to get away from it. The Internet is there forever, and everything that has ended up there is also forever. This makes things so much worse and testifies to why we must do something about it as soon as possible. The young girl may not even know that she has been photographed or filmed. She doesn't have to have any other risk behavior than being with a young guy. It could be enough to get into this if she has the bad luck to meet the wrong guy. Mr President, I would like to I have submitted a proposal to the Riksdag to be discussed during the current Parliamentary Session. No one will be happier than me if the Minister is present and puts forward proposals for new legislation. The Minister said – which was good – that this is part of the legislation that needs to be put in place to deal with the new type of crime that occurs on the Internet. I want to make it clear that we need to have legislation that tells us what it is about. These are sexual crimes, not slanderous crimes. It is very important that it comes out, and I hope that the Minister, when he makes legislative proposals, will heed it.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-39	Mr President, I would like to I don't think we're very far apart. It is a task that we must take on together. It is a question of developing new legislation that is modern and tighter and that takes a stricter view of such acts than the previous one. It is, as Edward Riedl says, usually a man who is the perpetrator, and the victim is usually a woman, in many cases a younger woman. It is not only possible in the kind of actions that we are now talking about, that men post sex films or naked pictures of their former girlfriends. Unfortunately, it is also possible when we have the broad discussion about violations on the Internet in general. For example, many women journalists talk about what they are exposed to on the Internet daily in the form of threatening and offensive emails, as well as gossip, slander and other misery. There is reason to take this very seriously. That was the background to the establishment of the investigation, the one I will receive next week. Then you should also look at that kind of crime. There is not much more to say than that we are going to modernise the legislation. We are going to open up to get crime's compensation in these cases too, to the extent that the victim fails to get compensation from the offender. That's how crime's damage mechanism works. I believe that there is reason for us to clarify these issues. This work is already under way and is entering its crucial stage next week. I will return to Parliament as soon as possible with proposals for new legislation.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-45	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to say that we should be glad that there are political issues in which we are close. Here, of course, we have a common responsibility to manage a development that goes very quickly. There is much to do, and we could have had a debate on the whole spectrum on the Internet. The Internet has changed the conditions for much of the crime we are now debating. I do not want to reduce in any way the violations that occur on the Internet, but, as I said before, it is important that we realise that rape can actually be committed without being in the same room as the other. I am pleased that my moderate comrades in the Committee on Justice have pushed these issues hard and listened both to the young generation and to those who work with young people who are victims of this type of crime. It is about people being subjected to acts that are difficult to heal, just as rapes are. I interpret the Minister so that we are heading in the same direction, and I therefore hope that sex crimes will be called what they are, namely sexual crimes. There is a difference between abuse and sexual crime, and that must be clearly stated in the legislation. It is important for the sanctions and too much else. I would like to thank the Minister for a good discussion and hope that we will make even more progress on these issues.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-49	Mr President, I would like to These are issues where we have not been far apart. On the contrary, we have worked together with them. During the last parliamentary term, when we were in opposition and I was chairman of the Committee on Justice, we Social Democrats pushed these issues. It therefore feels good from my point of view to now be able to deliver something that we have worked with for a long time and that I know there is broad support for in Parliament. I would like to thank you for the debate. We will come back after the usual consultation time and the process before us. Then we work in the same direction and try to strengthen the legislation in this area.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-51	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to translate the proposals of the Veteran investigation into government decisions and legislative proposals. Let me begin by emphasising the need for all veterans and their relatives to be given appropriate and appropriate support. The starting point is that all personnel deployed on behalf of the State in dangerous international activities should receive such support before, during and after duty. The Veteran investigation has presented its final report Swedish veteran policy – A responsibility for the whole of society (SOU 2014:27). The report is closed, the referrals are compiled and it is further prepared in the Government Office. The Defence Committee has also stressed that responsibility for veteran issues should be clarified and therefore sees the need to establish a centre for veteran issues within the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces are working on behalf of the Government to develop the work on veteran and family matters within their area of responsibility. On 18 December 2015, the Government decided on a regulation letter regarding the Swedish Armed Forces for the financial year 2016 and has commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to present in the 2017 budget data how the Agency intends to continue to develop work on veteran and family matters within its area of responsibility. The Swedish Armed Forces will also report on the work carried out on veteran and family matters in the annual report for 2016. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to present a proposal for the establishment of a special veteran centre within the Swedish Agency in connection with the interim report. In this assignment, the Swedish Armed Forces will strive to work across the board. The Swedish Armed Forces' proposals will be discussed in the Government Office's further preparation of the Veteran investigation's proposals. The Government will then return to the Riksdag.
i-K7dwzYKJ6HVZWQnZSByzuM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defense, for the answer to the interpellation! In the answer given by the Minister for Defence, he stresses that the Committee on Defence has also been involved in the matter. He says that the committee has stated that veteran issues should be clarified, and therefore the committee sees the need to establish a centre for veteran issues within the Swedish Armed Forces. Mr President, I would like to I would argue that this is not in all respects correct. I am therefore obliged to quote the Defence Committee's report n° 7 of 2014/ 15. Under the heading "Committee's position", it says, among other things: a developed veteran administration can become a platform for rehabilitation, support talks, career change and research on the difficulties of foreign veterans. In addition, the committee would like to stress the need for veteran support also to cover civilians who have served in various operations and for a centre to serve both civilian and military veterans. This is an important role for a veteran center. What the committee has said should be made known to the government. ..................................................... Thus, the Defence Committee has not indicated in its announcement that a veteran centre would be within the Swedish Armed Forces as an authority. The reasons for this are, in fact, two. The first reason is that veteran policy has now been proposed to include civilian veterans. Then we are talking about civil protection personnel serving internationally, aid workers, health professionals, police officers, staff from the Tax Agency and so on. Although these categories of personnel are usually in civilian intervention, they are exposed in principle to the same risks and wear and tear as our veteran soldiers do in their military operational areas. Just a few months ago, I listened to a nurse who served in the Ebola epidemic in Liberia, who told me how risky and exposed her mission was and how traumatized she was. It was very easy for me to see that her experiences were in line with the experiences that soldiers bring home from Afghanistan. The problem is that putting a veteran centre under the Swedish Armed Forces will make civil authorities and employers feel tempted to send their staff for rehabilitation, support and help there. I believe that the Minister for Defence can imagine this as well. Another problem with a veteran centre within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces is that many veteran soldiers do not want to discuss their experiences with their superiors and employers, how they feel and how they feel. We know that many of them go to people and places where they can be anonymous. Mr President, I would like to Sten Tolgfors succeeded with the achievement of bringing together all the departments involved – both the Ministry of Defence and the civilian departments responsible for personnel abroad – and having an investigation conducted by the Ministry of Defence. I hope that Peter Hultqvist will now also be able to gather the results of the investigation and get his colleagues on the wagon.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-62	Mr President, I would like to As far as we are concerned, it is ultimately the result that is the important thing. For me, the organisational form of this is not crucial. If the debate is to be about authority versus centre, and so on, you get stuck in organisational reasoning instead of talking about what can be designed as a practical outcome. We have responded, we believe, to the views and suggestions that have been put forward by now, in a regulatory letter, demanding that a proposal be made to the veteran centre within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces. It's to get us started somehow in this process. We have also indicated that such a centre should, in that case, work across the board. Of course, how one chooses to conduct such an activity will also be something that governs the outcome if people feel welcome or not. Then it is in everyone's interest that this, whatever form of organization you choose, must be seen as an activity where people feel that they can get the support and help they want. I want to hold off on statements, beyond how this may possibly be expected to strike, until I have seen a proposal from the Swedish Armed Forces. As far as the authority itself is concerned, I can only note what I see in the referral. The Swedish Armed Forces, FMV, MSB, the National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Fortifications Agency and Statskontoret advise us against forming an independent authority. Then I want to analyse what this stands for. We need to build effective structures. We must not create a situation in which an authority which has sent a person on a mission suddenly withdraws responsibility for what comes afterwards. This is not a reasonable development. You have to take this into account when you look at this. When we establish this type of activity, we will not achieve any kind of abundance or extra administration, but we must ensure that this is perceived as close, efficient and highly service-oriented. After all, most veterans are within the Swedish Armed Forces. This is one of the reasons why we are now asking the Swedish Armed Forces to return to this issue. We will continue to work on this in a constructive way. Nor can I see that there are any deeper contradictions on the question of principle. Everyone probably wants us to have a good veteran business and that we should be able to follow up the needs in a good and sensible way. Then we need to find the organisational form. We will now await the proposal made by the Swedish Armed Forces. Then from this we will see how we move forward. I have no problem discussing these issues with the committee and conducting a dialogue there. I can only see that as positive in this context. I do not feel that the political contradiction here is very great. Rather, it feels designed.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-71	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Minister for Defence has just touched on something very important, namely that at the political level this is not a conflict-filled area in any way. But it is sensitive when you come down at government level. The Secretary of Defense said that in the consultation, various authorities have said that they do not want to withdraw from responsibility for their staff. I don't think that was ever the idea. However, we must realise that there are authorities – Lantmäteriet, Skatteverket and the equivalent – that send one or two people abroad each year. They are not in a position to build solid support for their civilian veterans on their own. This requires an authority that can support the authority that is the employer in its staff policy work. This is what it is all about: expertise in the field of justice, in seven care areas such as the Council, etc. In the investigation, the Ministry of Social Affairs, Justice, Education and Defence were represented, and there were representatives of a wide range of authorities. Every time the question of where the center was to be located, there was disagreement. Someone suggested, just as the Minister for Defence is concerned, that perhaps it should be placed within the Armed Forces. At that time, the civil authorities unanimously replied that this was out of the question. Then one thought that one might be able to put it under MSB or Folke Bernadotte Academy, but then of course the Armed Forces said that it never comes up. That is why we landed in the only practical solution in this conflict-packed environment, namely to put it in the middle of all the authorities and then let the working authorities sit on the board of this centre. It is worth pointing out, Mr President, that the very solution of an independent centre, which, unfortunately for constitutional reasons, must be an authority, was the whole of the investigation. There was no disagreement whatsoever among all the representatives of the authorities or ministries represented. I listen carefully to what the Secretary of Defense says. I would like to say, Mr President, that the Minister for Defence has made a very good habit of reacting and acting on the announcements that have come from the Committee on Defence. He deserves a big credit for that. I hope that we can continue to have a constructive dialogue on this in the future and after the Swedish Armed Forces have submitted their proposal in the first interim report. That is really what Peter Hultqvist says. What is important is that aid is provided and that not only veteran soldiers but also other personnel in international service who are exposed to both risks and wear and tear receive appropriate support before, during and after the operation.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-77	Mr President, I would like to I know I have some extra opportunity to reply, but it feels a little bit like we have cleared out the essentials of this debate. We are now receiving this proposal from the Armed Forces. I'm prepared to meet the committee for a discussion then, or if we take it through the Bureau or how we now choose – so that we can get an introduction to how we can deal with this further. Then, in various ways, we must try to ensure that we have a purposeful activity. I share the view that we must work across the board and that what we do must be transparent on the broad side. However, I have not locked myself to the organizational form. We'll see what the different outcomes we have ahead of us will look like. Thank you for a constructive question. It is a debate that is really about the fact that we both want to solve the problem in some way. Then, for my part, I would like to return.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-81	Mr President, I would like to It was a small thought that actually struck me, Mr President, here in the speaker's chair. Peter Hultqvist is now also responsible for the challenging task of reconstructing a Swedish total defense. It may also be reasonable to see cross-government cooperation in the area of veteran policy as part of such work.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-83	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-85	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Sweden has been known for its strong economy, but is now moving in the wrong direction. We see the deficits rising and soon over 90 billion are larger. We see 90 000 people at risk of permanent unemployment if nothing is done about integration. And we see how the government lacks a plan. Sweden needs leadership and reforms to address important challenges: to get more people to work, to strengthen the school and not least to meet the major integration challenge. We Moderates present concrete proposals. Last week, we presented proposals on how best to strengthen control over public finances. There were various messages from the government then. The Prime Minister himself said the same day both that we may have to think about what is best for Sweden and that this can be devastating. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson said that the government is open to listen. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson said that this was not well thought out. It is clear that the government lacks a coherent plan for Sweden, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister here and now: Is the Prime Minister, who talks so much about responsibility and cooperation, prepared to meet the moderate proposals for how we strengthen the grip on public finances before it is too late?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-88	Mr President, I would like to It's kind of fascinating to stand here and hear the Moderate Leader talking about government finances and deficits. When you took over government power in 2006, we had a surplus of approximately SEK 70 billion. You left behind a deficit of about the same amount. The deficit skyrocketed for every year you were in power. This is not the first time a bourgeois government has succeeded in doing so. It also resulted in a long series of years of underinvestment in our country – underinvestment in housing, job investment, education and welfare. That was the result of your policy, and we have taken over. Then what have we done? We have started by making sure that the deficit is halved in order to have room for manoeuvre. We need this in this situation, when we have a major community building and an important start-up effort ahead of us. We will try an infinite number of opportunities for people to get into work, because that is absolutely the most important thing. Adult people should get to work as quickly as possible. We've started that job by fast track. We have faster education in Swedish already during the asylum period. We have contributed almost SEK 10 billion to the municipalities. We have increased support for the reception by municipalities of asylum seekers and children attending school. We have taken a number of measures. In future, however, the construction of society will also require that we receive tax revenue and that we keep our finances in order. This government will. We have made sure to halve the deficits you left behind. We will continue to ensure that the finances are in order, because that is when the real investments can be made.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-91	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I should begin by informing the Prime Minister that this year it is ten years since 2006. It is also almost two years since the last election movement, the time when the rhetoric used by the Prime Minister might have been a little better. Now I stand here and talk about the next few years. The deficits are already increasing and appear to increase by over 90 billion. I have concrete proposals on how to meet the integration challenge. I take public finance order seriously. That is why I have put forward concrete proposals, and that is why I wonder whether the Prime Minister is prepared to take them more seriously. I have a plan for Sweden – so that we can connect a firmer grip on public finances before it is too late and so that we can get more people to work and reverse the negative trend. But what is the Prime Minister's plan?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-94	Mr President, I would like to This is not rhetoric but truth. It is today's truth that you left behind a deficit of about 70 billion. That's what we inherited. We have halved it, and this has given us room for manoeuvre. What we are now facing is a community building that is a great opportunity for Sweden. But it will require investment. What kind of politics do the Moderates have? Yes, it is about continuing tax cuts – again. This applies in both economic boom and recession. It doesn't matter if it's sun or rain-- it's tax cuts you're supposed to make. Now you have new ones. Now that we are faced with this building of society, what do you do? Well, you're proposing cuts. You have a list of 25 billion cuts in relation to the government's budget. There are cuts in jobs, schools, adult education and welfare. That's not how you build a society. The Moderates should learn that.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-98	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! The crisis linked to the recent refugee situation and the government's irresponsible policy have created major problems in both welfare and public services in general. We see financial problems in almost all county councils. It is not least medical care. We see a dental treatment that is extremely strained. We see an already crisising school facing even greater problems and even more strain. Additional pressure is now expected in preschool. The housing situation is catastrophic. The police are testifying to an untenable situation. Violence and unrest in asylum homes around the country is a burden on the police, other authorities and other parts of society. The list of problems can be made just as long as possible. I could stand here in any number of speeches and list the enormous problems that the government's irresponsible policy has created. Then, in all honesty, it is to be said that the government has recently taken some measures to reduce the asylum pressure on Sweden. The Minister for Migration has been very clear about that ambition. Asylum pressure must be reduced. There must be fewer people coming to Sweden. In direct contrast, the government has today decided on an investigation into more legal ways of seeking asylum. More legal channels are likely to make it easier to apply for asylum. And if it becomes easier to apply for asylum, it means that there will be more. I am not getting this together, Mr President. What do you think? How does this rhyme with the ambition expressed, among other things, by the Minister for Migration? What's it gonna be, Prime Minister?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-102	Mr President, I would like to It was a slightly mixed post. Let me start with the welfare and the economy. We basically have good conditions in Sweden now with strong economic growth of almost 4 per cent. We have good growth in investment. We have a falling unemployment rate. We also have increasing employment. It's a good foundation. But we have the whole building of society ahead of us. Among other things, more than 700 000 homes have to be built. For that, tax revenue is required. Resources are also needed in our municipalities. That is why the reasoning of the Swedish democrats is doubtful. The Swedish Democrats have a thesis, and it is of course that no human being should cross our borders. But in addition, Jimmie Åkesson, you want to remove 90 billion SEK from the municipalities. My question is: how do you think it will be better if you take SEK 90 billion from the municipalities and cut back on the introduction measures? How will it bring labour to our country? How should municipalities know that they have resources to deal with such a situation? That must be the question for you. You are totally obsolete in the discussion, I would say. We're talking about legal ways. We in Europe must have a different system in which people do not have to take the risky journeys in order to be able to seek asylum when fleeing violence, misery and oppression. We should have legal ways instead of people having to make these escapes. We need to be able to investigate how we can do that so that people have that opportunity instead of making dangerous journeys. The fact that we have taken down the number of asylum seekers has been important. It was absolutely necessary. We will stand by it. We have to have fewer, and more people have to go to other countries.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-107	Mr President, I would like to One can at some point question the value of a question instrument that we have in the Swedish Parliament if the Prime Minister chooses to answer the question he receives by asking a counter-question and otherwise not giving a direct answer. But it is probably up to the Prime Minister if he chooses to answer the questions he receives. There is talk of community building and that it offers a great opportunity for Sweden. I'm having a very hard time seeing that possibility. I note that the Prime Minister here completely ignores the problems that I list that have been created by the government's irresponsible policy. They don't exist. It's like I'm making up the problems. Sweden is doing great. We have high growth, unemployment is falling and everything. But the problems are real problems, Mr President. They exist for real, and they are caused by the policies of the government. If it is now the case that the Government's ambition is to reduce the asylum pressure on Sweden, why do you set up an investigation into how to make it easier to apply for asylum in Sweden?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-111	Mr President, I would like to I'll ask Jimmie Åkesson to listen this time. What I'm saying is that there are many people who travel dangerously and flee from oppression, misery and war. We want to change that order. We must ensure that the number of asylum seekers to Sweden is reduced. The whole of Europe must shoulder its responsibilities, but preferably through people having an opportunity to legally get here. They should not have to flee and die on the water anywhere in southern Europe. That's the difference. As far as community building is concerned, I would like to say the following once again. We invest in infrastructure, in housing, in jobs, in education and in welfare. We stand up for the Swedish model. You in the Swedish Democrats have just sold yourself to Anna Kinberg Batra and the moderate gang. You say it doesn't matter. We will not negotiate, but we will support you anyway. The Swedish Democrats are a right-wing party. Now it's finally revealed. You've managed to hide it in the rhetoric. Now you've made it clear. The Swedish people know: The Swedish Democrats are a genuine right-wing party.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-115	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! The lack of housing and rental apartments is one of our major social problems. Young people who want to leave home cannot do so because they cannot find a place to live. Others who can move away from home are exploited in the secondary market with very high rents compared to the home they receive. We see how people who get a job in another part of the country can't take the job because they can't find a place to live. We have a huge challenge in building rental apartments with reasonable rents that make us solve it. It's the only way to solve it. We have other challenges in the housing market. We can see that where rental properties are renovated, rents are often raised by 30, 40, 50 and 60 percent, and people have to leave their homes because they cannot afford to stay. When we come to the government and the housing talks that start next week, that is what we want to talk about. How can we speed up housing construction? How can we increase tenants' influence over their own housing? From the bourgeois parties, there is really only one thing you are interested in. It's market rents. It's for the market to decide. If market rents are carried out when there is an acute housing shortage and the seller's market is complete, it is easy to figure out what would happen. People with low incomes would be allowed to leave their homes. Cities would be even more divided, and property owners could make a lot of money. Now I hope to hear from you today, Stefan Löfven. It is time to say to the bourgeois in the Alliance: There will be no market rents. You can forget about market rents. We will talk about real solutions to real problems, but this issue is not up for discussion. There will be no market rents. Can we hear it?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-119	Mr President, I would like to The housing problem is just as serious as Jonas Sjöstedt describes it. We have a housing shortage in more than 180 municipalities. Boverket's forecast is that more than 700,000 homes must be built by 2025, so the chord is gigantic. That is why the government has already started the largest housing investment in 20 years. We make a total of SEK 6 billion this far per year because we have to get the housing building started. It's about simplified rules. What the previous government had begun, we have taken on. We see the need for further simpler rules. You can possibly build directly from the master plan and skip detailed plans. I was yesterday in Kalmar. They reported that it worked in some places. The construction process can be speeded up. We need to increase the capacity of the construction market. It is important to educate more people in the industry and get a growing construction industry in Sweden. It can also be about bringing in companies from other countries to get the capacity up and build so much. We need to look at the funding. Do we need additional investment aid or other funding opportunities? We can possibly add capital to SBAB in order to serve as lending to both municipal companies and private companies. All this we want to look at, including mobility. In all this lies Jonas Sjöstedt's question. The argument for market rents is that it makes it more sustainable for those who will build rental apartments. They get better income for their costs. Both of these things must be taken into account. I am not prepared to say: now we are going to introduce market rents. That answer is clear. The situation we have now is the lack of housing. Everyone knows that if you have a deficit on a product, the price goes right up. We have presumable rents for 15 years now. We are prepared to possibly review those rules if that would make it easier.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-126	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister goes like the cat around the bush in his answer. When he approaches the hot porridge market rents, unfortunately, it becomes an unclear answer. That makes me really worried. Is it the case that the issue of market rents is up for negotiation? Is it negotiable to carry out market rents? There I would like a clear answer. You have been able to give clear information about property tax, that you do not want to negotiate that issue. Can we not have a clear statement today that there will be no opening of market rents and that the issue is not up for negotiation?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-128	Mr President, I would like to I am not prepared to introduce market rents. I just said that, and I can say it one more time. I do not want to do that because I know what happens when you have a shortage of goods or, in this case, housing. If you have too little housing and release the pricing free, the price goes straight up. I will not expose Sweden's tenants to that. However, it is a legitimate discussion to take how those who will build rental apartments should feel that it is sustainable and predictable and say: We want to build rental apartments. It is an important discussion to take. I'm ready to watch that. What can we do to make it easier for more people to build rental apartments? We need to see the chord ahead of us. I am talking about 70 000 flats on average per year. It's huge. It's a community building that's positive. Let's try it. We have put forward a number of proposals on things that we see need to be done. I'm open to other suggestions. Let's start from there. But when it comes to market rents, I know where the prices go.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-132	Mr President, I would like to The greenhouse effect is our greatest challenge in humanity today. We must be able to reduce CO2 emissions significantly. One solution is to close down modern society, and we will reduce CO2 emissions. But I think that almost everyone in this House wants us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time being able to safeguard jobs, welfare and economic development for the future. That's where the challenge lies. The largest single area where this Parliament can influence the greenhouse effect is about energy production, how we produce our energy. That's where we can influence. Then we can influence through Europe. But that's where we can do something ourselves. Many are now concerned about what is happening. One of them is the chairman of IF Metall, Stefan Lövven's successor Anders Ferbe, who writes an article in Today's Industry this week. He is deeply concerned about the developments that are taking place. Under the threat of so many negative changes, we lift warning flags, he writes, for hasty government decisions and a ban on nuclear technology and research. He has a number of points: stop the closures that are under way of today's nuclear power! He wants to allocate funds to nuclear research – a proposal that I believe has the support of many parties in this Parliament. You're supposed to have funds for what's now being strangled. He writes that it must be open to build even a fourth generation of reactors to replace those we have. I can see that this goes against the announcements made by the Minister for Energy and the Government on a point-by-point basis. My question to Stefan Löfven is: How is IF Metall wrong?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-138	Mr President, I would like to The greenhouse effect is serious. I am pleased that we have received a Paris agreement, a global agreement, which also looks to our own country. Energy production is important; I will come back to it. The transport sector is also extremely important. I see that the great commitment now is to ensure that we have a fossil-free transport sector. There are great opportunities ahead of us both in terms of the climate and the environment. But it is also about new technologies and new jobs. There's no future here, and that's what we're going to take care of. As far as energy and nuclear energy are concerned, we now have an Energy Commission. If it is something that the social partners, the business community and the trade unions have asked for, it is a long-term solution to this issue. The Energy Commission is currently working on this, and I hope that the Liberals will participate. The rules we live with, Jan Björklund, is what you did. Now urge industry and companies to build nuclear power stations! The problem is that the price of energy is so low. That is the big problem, and the few years we are being dragged into. Now we must ensure that this is resolved so that Sweden has secure access to energy, and we shall have it at competitive prices. However, the government's entry into the discussions is that we believe that we should have 100% renewable energy. That's where we're going. It is up to the Liberals to respond to this. We must have access to energy. The agreement that you reached and which you called broad is the basis for the way the market is now operating. When you see the price of energy falling, you say: Let's take the oldest reactors out of service!
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-143	Mr President, I would like to Then it is obvious that Anders Ferbe does not understand anything. Apparently, there's something he doesn't understand here, because he's saying the exact opposite of the Prime Minister. But if we ignore Anders Ferbe for a while, it is still the case that we both understand – and I think most people understand that – that with the electricity prices that currently exist, it does not pay to build any power plants at all. It does not pay to build nuclear power stations, but it does not pay for anything else unless it is heavily subsidised. Then everything can pay off. Right now, nothing pays off. However, if a power plant is built in ten years' time to deliver electricity for 80 years, it is not the price of electricity today that is crucial. Everyone understands that, too. We have no idea what electricity prices are like in 2060. When you say 100% renewable, you have to understand that it means something other than 100% fossil-free. 100% renewable is to shut down nuclear power, while at the same time it is actually the fossil-free we are looking for with climate change. That's what's in combat. Why are you setting up an Energy Commission if you have already decided to shut down nuclear power?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-145	Mr President, I would like to We're not gonna ignore Anders Ferbe. I can promise you that me and Anders Ferbe are also discussing this issue; we know each other quite well. There's talk of a deal. Why are we setting up an Energy Commission? Well, for the simple reason that Sweden must have a long-term agreement that both industry and industry as households know lasts over time and that the conditions are known. That's the one we've invited to. You had an agreement with your four parties. It included a minority in the Swedish parliament. It wasn't durable. This is what everyone wants. In the agreement, it is natural to first form an idea of what the energy needs are in the future. What about new networks? Will we be able to store energy in a way that we have never done before? That is the analysis we are in the process of doing. We say that we want 100% renewable because it should also be CO2 free. Of course this goes hand in hand. Meet up there, the Liberals too, and for that discussion in the Energy Commission! We'll be able to finish. We owe this to Sweden.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-149	Mr President, I would like to The last time the Prime Minister and I stood in these two seats and discussed and debated, I raised the government's unemployment target: Sweden should have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The main issue in the government's labour market policy is about trainee jobs. 32,000 trainee jobs were promised. By November, it had become one. Now there have been a few more, but the government's labour market policy has failed. However, the Prime Minister felt that I should be pleased. With the government's policy we are on the go, and the goal of Sweden having the lowest unemployment rate in Europe 2020 is no problem. That is how I understood that debate. If you look at the Ministry of Finance's forecast, which has weighed the government's policies and the government's budget, it looks bleak. The Ministry of Finance's forecast is that unemployment in Sweden in 2019 will be 6.8 percent. In order for us to reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate in the following year, we need to reach a reasonable reduction of 4 – 4.5%. I raised this point, and the Prime Minister replied: you have already condemned an unemployment target for 2020. You look at a prognosis and you see a number over there, and you think that's the case. Yeah, that's what happens if you don't do anything, but not if you keep going, and I'm gonna do it. It's praiseworthy. We saw a number. We saw it in the government's own finance department's forecast. It is a finance ministry that had put the whole government's policy into its calculations. It's condemned by the Prime Minister. My question to Stefan Löfven is: How can the Ministry of Finance be so wrong in its forecast?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-155	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I am surprised every time this criticism of the unemployment case comes up. This is, in my view, the most important issue. The most important thing for an adult is to be able to support oneself. You can have your own business; you can run a business. But some people are supposed to be in employment. For me, it's number one. We have too high unemployment in Sweden. We have to get it down. It's coming down now. It goes down on the total. Long-term unemployment is declining. Youth unemployment is falling. Employment is rising. I'm not saying it's forever. If we look a number of years away, unemployment is too high. It is there because we have now taken a number of decisions, but they will not be enough, but more will be needed. I still have the same argument. If you just look at a number and say this is how it is, then that's how it is. But you could say, I'm going down under that. We are going down to the EU's lowest unemployment rate, and that will require more. It will certainly require more training places. I'm sure it'll require more emergency work, you name it. I can say that I almost don't care which, only people get into work - and on fair terms. With your policy, we need to reduce taxes. That is what applies to all four bourgeois. You're going to lower taxes. Then we read in the draft budgets how to cut it down. It's to be cut down in welfare, because you can't afford it. If you cut into welfare, there'll be fewer jobs. It's supposed to be cut back on education. And what's that gonna be? People who are currently unemployed do not need to be able to get into work, because that is where some training is needed. Your cuts lead to higher unemployment. You have a cutback agenda, and we have an investment agenda. That is what separates our two policy options. I'm gonna stand up for investment. People are going to work.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-160	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is not the objective of unemployment that the Christian Democrats are critical of. What we are critical of is that you are distinctly shockingly raising the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. You are increasing thresholds into the labour market, and you are making it more expensive to hire. We can look at different numbers. I highlighted a figure that the Prime Minister seems to judge in his own Ministry of Finance's forecast, which has also taken into account the government's policy. Since our last debate, the Public Employment Service has forecast that unemployment in Sweden will be 7.5 per cent. We are not satisfied with that, but the government's policy will lead to fewer people getting jobs and more people being excluded. The only people who seem to believe in the unemployment case are Stefan Löfven himself and possibly his speechwriters and some in the government. Everyone else is judging it. How are we going to achieve Europe's lowest unemployment target by 2020, Stefan Löfven?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-163	Mr President, I would like to With regard to raising taxes in shock, I would like to say that during the last government's eight years of government, the country's taxes were stunned – hence the great deficit that you left behind. The result? Did you have lower unemployment when you left than when you took office? No, you had higher unemployment. One measure you cost was the youth worker's contribution. It has cost Swedish taxpayers a total of approximately SEK 110 billion, leading to higher youth unemployment. When are you going to learn? We say: We must invest in infrastructure so that trains go on time and people can move, in housing so that they can move to where the jobs are, in business policy so that we get new growing companies, in education so that people can take jobs and in Swedish welfare, because welfare also strengthens employment.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-167	Mr President, I would like to As we all know, and as we have just heard, the Promise Government has a goal of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. There's not much to say about that case. That is a tough and ambitious goal. We in the Center Party have put forward many proposals, both before and after the elections, which could take us a long way along the way, not least by making it easier and cheaper for small and growing companies, the job creators, to hire. We need to modernise the Swedish labour market fundamentally. The problem, which we have touched on before, Mr President, is that the government's policy is taking us further away from the government's own objectives. Tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship and changes in transfer systems keep people out of the labour market longer than they do today. The rhetoric says one thing, but politics does something else. Is it the politics or the rhetoric you're going to back off from, Stefan Löfven? Today, words and reality do not go together.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-171	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you once again what the reality is. Unemployment is now falling. It is falling for the long-term unemployed, it is falling for young people and it is falling overall. The employment rate is increasing. The number of employed people is about 70 000 more than a year ago. That's good, but it's not enough. Now I note that the Center Party is also starting to join the case. The Christian Democrats and the Centre Party think that this is a good goal, and it is great that you are coming along and that you also see that we need to set a clear goal. Then we agree on that, and I thank you for that. But let us also ensure that we take the necessary measures. One is that people actually need to be educated in order for them to take the jobs that exist. You must see this too. People need to have an education to be able to find the right job. This is one of the major flaws today. I'm gonna keep investing in this. I am not going to lower taxes as the bourgeois parties want, and I am definitely going to stand up for a Swedish labour market that stands for the Swedish model.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-174	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let us be clear that just because a target is not bad does not mean that it is good. There are better ways to measure success in this area. The problem is that it is not just us in the opposition who do not believe in the government's employment policy. No one does. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise does not, LO does not, the authorities of experts do not and the Ministry of Finance does not. If Stefan Löfven rearranges the policy and makes it better, he should see that the forecasts also look a little better.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-177	Mr President, I would like to I do what is necessary for people to get to work, and investment is needed. We must have trains that go on time, both for businesses and for people. We need housing so that people can move to where the jobs actually are. I'm gonna do whatever it takes to make it happen. Then tax cuts are not enough. You tried that policy for eight years, and you left a farce with higher unemployment than when you took office. When are you going to learn?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-180	Mr President, I would like to Social trust is an important building block in the construction of society – the feeling that we are all covered by the same regulations and that before the law we are equal. We Social Democrats have a policy based on the fact that we as citizens have both rights and obligations, for example in order for the Swedish model to work. A clear example of this is that everyone who can work should do the same. The objective, as the Prime Minister has made clear here today, is full employment. It is a central objective. What is the government doing, and what can the government do, to ensure that this attitude characterises all our regulations and policies?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-182	Mr President, I would like to It is quite right that Berit Högman says that it is central to Social Democratic policy and in government policy that people come to work. This is basically a matter of valuation. If we are serious about all people having their freedom and developing their lives, they must be able to make a living. There's a clear line. It's about duty and right. Our society is to be built on this exactly: duty and right. When I go unemployed and receive support from unemployment insurance, I will also be at the disposal of the labour market. One example of how we can add to this is that we now want to change the rules so that when you receive support from the municipality, you will also be at the disposal of the labour market, provided of course that you are fit to work. It is another way to add duty and right.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-185	Mr President, I would like to Sweden received over 160 000 refugees from war and persecution last year. Giving these people a good start in our country is a major and important task. The government has launched a new community building to increase reception capacity and early give people an opportunity to establish themselves in society. What unites all of us citizens is the construction of Sweden's common future – the construction of a future that is human and inclusive and a society where everyone has the same rights and obligations.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-188	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely crucial, as Maria Ferm here points out, that we can ensure that the people who come here get the same participation in our society as everyone else. It is a very important ideological issue, and it is also, in fact, economic. We have for some time been working very systematically on this and are in full swing in order to get past activities for those who come to us. Let me give you some examples. You should be able to learn Swedish for immigrants already during the period of asylum. We will have previous validation to see what education and skills people have and what they may need to supplement with. We will have previous efforts in terms of education in order for everyone to come to their own. We have the fast track that has been developed together with the social partners. We have contributed almost SEK 10 billion to the municipalities. In addition, we have increased the flat-rate amounts for municipalities that receive, and we have not least ensured that all municipalities should do the right thing.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-191	Mr President, I would like to I believe that I and the Prime Minister agree that the quality of preschool is important and that preschool teachers who work in preschool are needed in order for the quality of their activities to be high. In Stockholm County's municipalities, everyone has a major challenge when it comes to finding preschool teachers. There is a large shortage and this leads to difficulties for municipalities to maintain quality. In addition, there are major challenges in finding places as the population grows. The Government has decided to increase the number of places in pre-school education at universities and higher education institutions. But it is money that unfortunately does not come to the Stockholm region. Instead, there has been a reduction in the number of seats. This means that there will be far too few preschool teachers in this region, despite the fact that the Stockholm region is one of the regions with the lowest percentage of preschool teachers.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-194	Mr President, I would like to As Maria Stockhaus rightly points out, we need to increase the number of preschool teachers. That's why we're raising that number. We need more. We're sending money to the universities so they can have that opportunity. Previously, the number of training places was reduced. That's exactly what Sweden didn't need. Now we are making sure to increase the capacity of universities. We will also improve the quality of teacher training. There is no change in our policy in this area. It's still the case. But it is the same here as in any other policy. We need to get tax revenue. This is not an issue that is broken by lowering taxes. It is solved by us transferring resources to the universities. And we're gonna keep doing that.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-197	Mr President, I would like to The expulsion of criminal aliens has been severely neglected in Sweden for a long time. Recent statistics that I have requested show that the proportion of foreigners in new prisons has increased rapidly, from 29 percent in 2011 to as much as 41 percent in 2015. At the same time, it turns out that the proportion of foreigners sentenced to expulsion in connection with them has decreased, from 22 per cent to 17 per cent since 2011. So that's less than a fifth. If we look specifically at violent crimes, we can see that only 8% were sentenced to deportation in 2015. It has declined from 12 per cent in 2011. And for sex crimes, for example, it has gone down from 38 percent to 22 percent. We therefore have a situation in which the proportion of foreign citizens admitted for crime is increasing sharply, while they are being expelled increasingly. The Swedish Democrats have been calling for this to be changed for several years. Does the government propose to correct the rules so that expulsion becomes the norm rather than as today's exception?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-202	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we stand up for the rule of law in our country. We shall have order and security for citizens. It is that you are sentenced to penalties or are punished for crimes. When it comes to criminality among those who come here to seek asylum, including among those who have been granted a residence permit, it is in this way in Sweden today that if, while you are seeking asylum in Sweden, you commit a serious criminal act can get no only because of this. If you have received asylum and commit a serious enough crime today, you can also be expelled because of it. The government has no proposals as to whether to change those penalties. We are, however, working on how to prevent sexual crimes and how to deal with sex offenders. Women must be able to feel safe in our streets. We'll get back to that.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-207	Mr President, I would like to There is a great need to recruit teachers in Sweden. Although we are now increasing the number of training places, that will not be enough. It's a concern. We therefore need other ways into the teaching profession. Can the Prime Minister say anything about how we can develop other ways into the teaching profession, in addition to increasing the number of training places?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-209	Mr President, I would like to As Lena Emilsson rightly points out, we also have a great commitment here. It is a matter of 60 000 – 70 000 teachers having to do so in a few years. Some of them are secured by the fact that those who would actually have retired remain for a few more years. That's one way to do it. But it's not the sustainable way. The sustainable thing is to ensure that we train more teachers. We've done that. Another way we work is to ensure that people who have an academic degree and experience from a profession and who need to add an educational education can get it. We want to improve the conditions for this so that more people who are perhaps very good at mathematics but are not teachers can receive an educational education to become teachers in mathematics. It's a road we want to try. I think it will be very successful. I hope a lot of people want to get into the teacher's course. We need more teachers.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-213	Mr President, I would like to Vattenfall is trying to sell its coal power in Germany. The Government and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven have given their approval. According to new information this week, Vattenfall is offered a price of only one tenth of what has previously been suggested. Only about SEK 2 - 3 billion is expected for their assets in Germany. With regard to the bottom offer, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: would it not be better to entrust Vattenfall with the gradual phasing out of coal power operations in Germany, rather than selling at this bottom price? These are gigantic emissions, more than Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions in a whole year. It would be better for the climate, and now we can see that it would also be better for the economy, to phase out rather than sell at a lower price. Doesn't the Prime Minister think so?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-217	Mr President, I would like to Vattenfall has and must have a clear mission to gradually reduce its fossil energy sources and move to fossil-free. They also have a commission from the Swedish parliament to run the business in a commercial way. That's the right order. We'll hold onto it. We have made sure to take a holistic approach to Vattenfall's board, both in terms of clarifying the climate perspective for Vattenfall and in terms of board appointment. In addition, I think it is absolutely right that it is the Board of Directors, the company's management, that should handle the concrete business situations. It's not supposed to be done from here. It will be done by those who are appointed. They must live up to the rules and directives and do so in a commercial way. One thing is clear: Vattenfall will not, nor will Sweden, be able to govern Germany's energy policy.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-222	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the National Board of Health and Welfare's survey for January came about the work with unaccompanied children. It points out in particular how serious the situation is when social services do not have time to meet all children in need of placement, in HVB homes or in a family. The Ombudsman for Children also produced his report based on discussions with unaccompanied minors. The report highlights, among other things, the same things but also that children do not have a good man. This involves risks, of course, to accommodation that can become unsafe, but also to the individual children who do not have their needs met. The Christian Democrats proposed before Christmas that we need to set up a national Social Crisis Emergency Response Centre to deal with the difficult situation of many social services. Is the government prepared to take such a measure to relieve, assist and ensure that children's rights can be met?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-227	Mr President, I would like to Whether it is exactly a Commission or not, we shall see, but we must have systematic work with our municipalities on how to ensure that children receive the care, support, care they need, so that they are investigated to the extent necessary. It's quite obvious. Earlier this week I was in Mölndal and talked to the municipal management, Save the Children and Kommunal union representatives about the very fact that we have seen a substantial growth of HVB homes in a short time. Across the country, it is about 30 - 40%. It is clear that social services will then be strained. That is why we were right to reduce the number of asylum seekers. We need to be able to deal with the situation. The government has contributed SEK 1 billion over four years, during this term of office – SEK 250 million a year – to strengthen mental care for children and young people. We see that there is a greater need. Whether it should be a Commission or not, we will see, but yes, there should be systematic work with the municipalities.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-233	Mr President, I would like to Much of the Swedish industry is doing well. It is increasingly reported about new investments, new sales records and new job vacancies. At the same time, industry faces a number of challenges. We are in the midst of what is commonly referred to as the fourth industrial revolution, and digitalisation and automation significantly change the conditions for production. Competition is getting tougher. But automation and robotics in so-called smart factories also make it more attractive to manufacture in Sweden, and when I'm out in companies I often encounter a strong desire from everyone who works to be a tangible part of the development.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-237	Mr President, I would like to PerPer-Arne Håkansson is right to talk about how we strengthen the industry. There are those in Sweden who believe that we should not have any industry or manufacturing left in the country. I mean, that's the wrong way to go. That is why the government is now developing a new industrialisation strategy. Sweden can have a strong place on a growing world market. We'll have it, and then we won't be afraid of the new technology. I am happy to quote Göran Johansson, legendary municipal councillor in Gothenburg and former club chairman at SKF. He was once asked: Aren't you afraid of the new technology, which takes a job? He replied: No, I'm afraid of the old technology, because it's going to take more jobs. We often hear doomsday prophecies: If we get this development, all jobs disappear. I believe that we should take advantage of digitalisation and do so in a strategy together with industry. It will mean more opportunities for Sweden to have jobs here when the wage cost is no longer the same competitive factor as it once was. This is a great opportunity for Sweden.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-242	Mr President, I would like to Food country Sweden was an investment in Swedish food from several different perspectives. It was good for production, it was good for tourism, it was good for processing and it was good for exports. It also increased interest in Swedish food and food. At the government's entrance, a food strategy was promised that would contain not only everything that the country of food Sweden did not contain, but incredibly much more. Food country Sweden ended, but the government's strategy continues to shine with its absence. Meetings and seminars have been organised around Sweden to gather views on the new strategy. The Government's vision has been to adopt the strategy with a broad club team in the Riksdag. The bill, which was promised until April, is now delayed until June. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister when we in the opposition will see the text of a new food strategy.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-246	Mr President, I would like to I cannot give a direct answer to the date on which that bill comes. Responsible Minister Bucht is working on it. However, we share the view that this is important. One can see this when you look at how much food we import in relation to how much we consume in the country. I am sure we could have a higher degree of manufacturing here. This applies not least to organic food. Most recently today we were able to read that the consumption of organic food is increasing quite dramatically. This is good for Sweden, because here I think we have a competitive advantage. I also believe that we have very strong brands that can be made more of – cheeses, not least, but there are also other foods that are strong Swedish brands. Let us develop this strategy together! The food sector needs it, wants it and urges us to ensure its completion. On the other hand, Åsa Coenraads, I cannot say what date it comes. The responsible minister is doing it. Work's in progress.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-253	Mr President, the Prime Minister. Yesterday was the Memorial Day of the Holocaust, a day when we can remember and honor the victims of the Holocaust. But it is also a day when we can remember that it was, among other things, people's prejudices that led to this happening. It is a day when we can remember that, among other things, people's silence can be devastating. Above all, it is a day to remember so that we never forget. Today, unfortunately, we are living at a time when these prejudices are not just a thing of the past. Both in Sweden and in Europe we see and hear how different forms of hatred are growing stronger. People tend to divide into us and them. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is: how can we face and prevent this, both now and in the future?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-256	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for that question, because it is needed. We need to discuss divisions and contradictions so much more in our country. I'm worried. Just to participate in the synagogue's commemoration of those affected by the Holocaust is an extremely strong experience, as is to understand that people fear that they have a Jewish identity. We need to talk a lot more about this. There are those who believe in this and have it as an ideology. But there is too much that is based on the fact that we do not meet across different borders and between different groups in our society. We need to have a much more systematic discussion about what Sweden should actually be like. We have given an expanded mission to the Living History Forum, including towards schools, to talk about the Holocaust and educate about it, but also to educate on racism, anti-Semitism and intolerance. We need to address this in a very systematic way.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-260	Mr President, the Prime Minister. The 62 richest people in the world today own as much as half of the world's population. The fact that the gaps are growing is bad for everyone. To then demand lower entry wages, as Swedish bourgeois parties do, is out of step with time. Today, even the World Bank and the IMF are warning that growing gaps are hampering growth. But the development is possible to break. It is time for a Global Deal, a deal between labor and capital about, among other things, better working environment and a global raise in wages. What does the Prime Minister think of the Global Deal? How do we create the right conditions for employees around the world in cooperation and dialogue between employers and trade unions, between politics and society? I know that the Prime Minister raised the issue of the Global Deal at the World Economic Forum in Davos. How was the Prime Minister's initiative received?
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-264	Mr President, I would like to The discussion on divides is crucial for us to be able to create a society in which people feel involved. Then the gaps must not be too large. There is a huge shortage in our country and in the world. Global deal is based on the fact that we now have a global economy, and then we basically also have a global labour market. In this context, the global labour market must be characterised by the most favourable conditions. To achieve this requires dialogue between employers, companies, workers, trade unions and society. That is my conviction. How do we accomplish this? How do we achieve a consensus where society stands up for the right conditions and basic human trade union conditions, where companies are prepared to negotiate at local, regional and national level and where trade unions take responsibility for the development of companies? Yes, I had very positive reactions. I am in dialogue with both the ILO and the OECD and intend to continue it.
i-41adf9c67d7efe2d-268	There are no further Members of this House and that concludes Question Time today. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members.
