i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-13	Mr President, I would like to Good leadership and systematic strategic work are among the most important factors for achieving good results, regardless of activity. This applies from Hallin's workshops at home in Ödeshög to the operations of the country's universities and colleges. Regarding the latter, the Vice-Chancellor's leadership and mandate, as well as the boards of our higher education institutions, are extremely important functions in order for the higher education institutions to be successful in national and global competition. The Board as the highest decision-making body of the higher education institution is not only responsible for all of the university's matters and for the fulfilment of its tasks; it also has a strategic responsibility for developing the business. We moderate that the boards can and should develop to a much greater extent than is happening today. In this situation, it is therefore reasonable that all members, including students and teachers, are just adequate members of the board and that the majority of the members are external. We Moderates share the government's view on this issue, and we also support the proposal for a new way of appointing a nomination committee. Mr President, I would like to For us Moderates, the goal is that education and research at universities and higher education institutions should maintain an internationally high quality and be carried out effectively. The so-called "Management Investigation", set up by the Alliance Government, was an important part of this. This study addresses issues such as identifying and clarifying different decision-making structures, highlighting access to strategic funds and recruitment, and how a competent and strategic board operates. The latter is something I have already touched upon. I can admit that I had high expectations of what the investigation would result in. Although I find that my expectations were not fully met, I respect the difficulty of balancing the autonomy of higher education institutions against the interests of the government. Having said that, we consider it very important to follow up on the proposals and recommendations put forward by the Management Committee. We believe that the model of recommendations tested in the study is an interesting approach that can enable new ways for politics to govern universities in a world where higher education institutions have – and should have – increased autonomy. Therefore, we consider it highly justified to follow up on strengths and weaknesses with the model used in the Management Investigation. However, the other parties seem to be cold-hearted about this. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-19	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 from the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. For the Center Party, it is important to strengthen autonomy for our higher education institutions. Decisions shall be taken as close as possible to those concerned. It is for us a locally cultivated university policy. In recent years, autonomy has been strengthened on several occasions, including through the Alliance's autonomous reform just a few years ago. It meant increased power to higher education institutions and reduced detailed regulation and deregulation both in terms of internal organisation and education itself. The Center Party wants to further strengthen autonomy. This is shown in our reservation, which is being discussed today. Among other things, it is about enabling both good local knowledge and academic competence to be taken into account in the appointment of boards. That is something that we consider to be lacking in the bill. We want to remove the requirement that a majority of the members of the Board be external. In this way, you move power closer and let the profession have a greater influence. The government governance of higher education institutions should be done to a greater extent by changing the resource allocation system and through a clear quality assurance system. Modern political governance is more about objectives and performance management and less about detailed regulation of nomination policies. This will make it possible to maintain accountability. A system with increased influence for the profession also enables a stronger focus on internationalisation as well as education and research, which is the core tasks of higher education institutions overall. We write in the reservation that we have left about the nomination and the election procedure. The report states that one nomination person should be appointed by the government and the other by the university, without further clarification. We think that there should be an election procedure at higher education institutions to choose who should represent them in the nomination committee or be one of the nominations – this precisely to provide a clear structure for how the appointment takes place. In some cases, it may be the board itself that appoints the nomination person to appoint the board, and I think it is unfortunate if that should be the case. There is a need for a functioning system. For the Center Party, it is extremely important to give the profession more influence and strengthen autonomy so that we get increased focus on the core tasks of education and research. This will strengthen the international competitiveness of higher education in Sweden. We believe that this, together with a changed resource allocation system and a strong quality assurance system that has a greater focus on collaboration and quality, can strengthen higher education. These are important reforms for the Center Party in order to increase the competitiveness of higher education in Sweden.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-25	Mr President, I would like to Competent and skilful board members of our higher education institutions and universities are a prerequisite for the competent management of both the HEI's education and research as well as the development of activities. For me as a Christian Democrat, there are two important aspects that I would like to highlight in the discussion on the composition and composition of the boards. It is important, on the one hand, that there are a majority of academically well-qualified people on the board, and, on the other hand, that the board members have the support of the university teachers. It may sound obvious that the majority of a university board should have a high level of academic competence, but there is no such requirement today. Nor is it the government's view that such a requirement is needed. I find that unfortunate. Each higher education institution must have a board of directors with the expertise and experience that suits the focus of the higher education institution. In addition, it is essential that the Board consists predominantly of people who have high academic competence, i.e. docenters and professors. Otherwise, in the worst case, it can lead to unfortunate decisions with negative consequences for both university staff and the quality of education. The academic foundation of the Board is also necessary to establish trust internally, externally and internationally. The board members, with academic competence, should represent different disciplines based on the surrounding society and be either local or external members – but together never constitute a minority. Mr President, I would like to It is also important that the nominations who propose new board members have good knowledge of the university's activities. The Government's proposal that one of the two nominations should be aware of the university in question is too unclear. I would like to stress that it would be good if the choice of one nomination person had the support of the university's profession. I therefore believe that the nominations should be appointed through a local election procedure by the university's profession. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation No 1.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-31	Mr President, I would like to We need strong universities and colleges. It should be universities that carry out education and research with the highest quality. It follows that we also need strong and driving boards. The proposal we are discussing today is about how members of these boards are to be appointed and about the responsibilities of the board members. The Government proposes in the bill that the Higher Education Act should be amended so that teachers and students, instead of being represented on the board of a state higher education institution, should be given the right to appoint members of the board of directors. That's not a minor change. The Boards of teachers are collectively accountable to the government. It is therefore important that the members are independent of the interests of the parties and that they exclusively represent the respective higher education institutions. The current wording, that teachers and students should have the right to be represented on the board, can lead the idea wrong. Such a formulation may give the impression that the primary role of these members is to represent and monitor the specific interests of teachers and students, rather than having overall responsibility for the activities of the higher education institution. That is why this change is welcomed by a united committee. Of course, all members of the Board should contribute with their specific competence and experience – as well as teachers and students. But in the Board work, everyone has a common overall responsibility for their HEI. Another important change that is addressed in this proposal, which we also welcome, is that the government now proposes that it be regulated in a regulation that the nominees in their proposal for board members should take into account a gender balance. Mr President, I would like to Three parties – the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Center Party – object to the government's assessment of how the nominations are to be appointed and the composition of the board. The Government proposes that two persons form the nomination group that proposes the Chairman and the Board members that the Government will appoint. One of these persons shall represent an overall state interest and shall be appointed by the Government. The other person must have good knowledge of the university in question and be appointed by the government on a proposal from the university or university. This is a change that is welcomed by many – as is a majority in committee. On the other hand, the three parties I have just mentioned want a local election procedure among the university's profession to appoint the person who should have a good knowledge of the activities of the university in question. I find this objection a little strange. These three parties sat for eight years in a government that strongly advocated the autonomy of universities and colleges. All of a sudden, these three parties propose to regulate how these nominations are to be developed, especially the one to be appointed with the good knowledge of the current university. It must surely be in the principle of autonomy that it is the HEI itself that decides how this nomination person should be created, not that it should be regulated from above. The same three parties also believe that academically well-qualified persons should be in the majority on the boards of higher education institutions. In their reservation they write that they believe that it should be ensured that the boards of all higher education institutions have a majority appointed by the profession. The government's proposal that we are now discussing means that the external members that the government appoints should be in a majority. That is a very important principle for me, for the Social Democrats and for the government. If the government is to be able to demand responsibility and govern its authorities, the external members should be in a majority. A board of directors must be able to make important, decisive decisions at an overall level without being personally affected by the decisions they make. That is why it is important to have a majority of external Members. The external members are also an important external contact area in society, and they carry important perspectives into the work of the board. There is nothing to prevent any or some of the external members from also having an academic foundation, but there is no reason for it to be regulated in special order – based on the principles of autonomy. Mr President, I would like to I also welcome another issue raised in the report we are discussing today, namely that the government is opening up to view flexibly the size of the board of directors as far as members are concerned. Today they're 15. The study has presented proposals for a more flexible approach and to have fewer members if necessary. I am pleased that the government is taking this line and saying that there may be advantages to have a board of directors with fewer members if necessary and that there may be reason to consider such a change. This is the message I welcome. It is a strength to have more flexibility in the composition and size of the board, given that our universities look different. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-47	Mr President, I would like to On the occasion of Thomas Strand's speech and the discussion that is taking place here, I would just like to point out once again that we Moderates stand up for autonomy. We see it as essential that students and teachers become full members. We also agree that the majority of Members should be external. A question that Thomas Strand does not concern is included in the reservation that we Moderates put forward. It is about the importance of following up and evaluating the Management Investigation's conclusions. I mentioned why this is so important in my speech. This is a completely new concept for studying and seeing what results you get from a softer type of governance, because we safeguard autonomy and do not want detailed regulation of what is the affairs of universities and colleges. A great deal of follow-up and evaluation work is being carried out in committee, which is a new task that we are tasked with. As I understand it, we see that the value of that work is essential. I know that Thomas Strand also shares that view. That is why it is so surprising that we do not want to impose this mission on the government. In fact, it is the government that has the best chance of doing a good job. I would like clarification on this. In addition, I would like to ask Thomas Strand a question regarding another task that is included in the Management investigation. It is a question of the government being asked to review the allocation of resources. Thomas Strand has previously agreed to this, and I wonder where Thomas Strand and the Social Democrats stand today.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-51	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mrs Malmberg for the questions and points of view she has put forward. I am pleased that we have a strong majority in the committee for the change that we are discussing today in terms of the appointment of directors, the responsibilities of the board and the composition of the board. It is a strength that we still have a strong majority for this change, which I think is very important. I agree with Betty Malmberg that the Boards have an extremely important role, and we can do more to strengthen the role of the Boards in running the work at our higher education institutions, both at universities and at higher education institutions. It is good that we have this consensus. With regard to the proposals put forward by the government and with regard to the proposal that we are discussing, it goes without saying that the decisions that are being taken are being followed up. We in the committee wrote that we naturally assume that this government, like all the other governments, takes responsibility for following up the decisions that are being proposed and that the Parliament endorses. The management inquiry contains more than just the proposal that we are discussing today. We will be aware that there will be a research proposal in the autumn. A lot of university issues are also dealt with in the investigation. The other parts of the Management investigation are now being prepared within the Government Office. It is therefore too early today to adopt a position on a demand for follow-up to a government proposal that we have not yet seen. When there is a proposal, it goes without saying that we should ensure that there is a follow-up, but at the moment there is no reason to go further and accept the reservation that the Moderates put forward in the report.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-54	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Thomas Strand, for the answer that was probably quite expected. It says that it is assumed that the government will follow up. That is what the Committee on Education has said. Nevertheless, both Thomas Strand and I know that this is not always the case. In all good societies, we do not want to spend financial resources looking at whether the government's proposal will have the impact we have expected. Given that it was a completely different concept, a completely different systematic approach and methodology in the Management investigation, we still believe that it would have been of the utmost importance to follow up. Mr President, I would like to Then Thomas Strand avoids answering the question about the resource allocation system, which was also expected. It is therefore a question of the allocation of resources to higher education. Thomas Strand and the Social Democrats have always argued in opposition that the resource allocation system should be reviewed, but today, when you are in a government position, you remain silent about these issues. I have asked the Minister for Higher Education the question, but she does not think it is important to follow up this issue and to review and investigate the allocation of resources system. Although Thomas Strand knows that the University Chancellor thinks so and despite the fact that the investigator of the management system agrees with this. We Moderates believe that it is of the greatest concern that we also carry it out. Why, Thomas Strand, have the Social Democrats not turned this issue?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-58	Mr President, I would like to I was in opposition for eight years. There were many proposals from the bourgeois government. I always assumed that the government, when making proposals, also had a view of following up the reforms that were being carried out. I think Betty Malmberg from the Moderates should have the same attitude as I had in opposition. It goes without saying that the government is following up its decisions. Parliament is a supervisory body, and we must also ensure that things are followed up, done in the right way and implemented. I'm not so worried about this. It will probably be that we follow this closely, I am sure. As far as the allocation of resources is concerned, I can reassure Betty Malmberg that I have not changed my mind. For many years in opposition, I have been pushing the very question that it is time to review today's resource allocation system, which dates back to 1993 and which has not changed since then. Today, I still think that the resource allocation system should be reviewed. I promise Betty Malmberg that tomorrow, too, I will say the same, that it is time to review the resource allocation system. As a Member of Parliament, you have your freedom. You don't have to follow the government slavishly. What the minister says, the minister stands for. In fact, I think it is important to review the resource allocation system, and we are pushing this issue. This is an important issue – and there are many more than Betty Malmberg and I who think so – so I will run it, just as I did yesterday, today and tomorrow.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-62	Mr President, I would like to I want to pick up where the last line left off. I welcome Thomas Strand's announcement regarding the resource allocation system. There seems to be a majority in the Riksdag for that, so we could join forces to put pressure on the government and get an investigation. I actually asked for a reply in order to develop the reasoning that I had in my introduction linked to our position. Basically, we agree in several respects with regard to the bill and the report on Members, on the focus on equality and so on, as others have previously mentioned. But we differ on two points. One is about the selection of nominations. There is no confusion with the nomination person appointed by the government, but it is about the nomination person that the university is to appoint. We believe that this should be done through a local electoral procedure. In his speech, Thomas Strand criticised this, linked to the fact that it regulates too much for the university. But let me elaborate. If we leave it free for the higher education institutions to choose how to appoint the nomination person, it may be the Higher Education Board itself that appoints the nomination person. Few organisations in which the Board elects its Nomination Committee to any extent. This is what I fundamentally oppose. Instead, it should be done by the profession. The second is that we want a majority of the representatives to be proposed locally and to have good local knowledge but also academic competence. What we say in our reservation is that those people can be internal from the profession and reflect different disciplines, but they can also be external members. I believe that this is extremely important for the future of, among other things, internationalisation and enhanced competitiveness.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-67	Mr President, I would like to It is good that, on the whole, we agree on important issues of principle in this bill. Then there are two things I object to by what is being put forward in reservations from the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. The first is the nominations. A nomination group shall be appointed, and a person shall be elected from a more local perspective. I believe that it is in the principles of autonomy that we should not regulate how the local appearance is done. Each university must decide on its own how to appoint the person you propose to the government, who will formally confirm this. There is a strong power at each higher education institution to appoint a person. Then, in accordance with the principles of autonomy, it is wrong for us to regulate that it should be an electoral procedure. It could be an election procedure. If a higher education institution thinks it is an important issue, it can do so. But it is not something that we should regulate from above, but each higher education institution must decide for itself how to appoint the person. It is ultimately the government that confirms the decision. Should there be some crazy things, as Fredrik Christensson suggested, I think one will be able to point that out. But I think we can rely on our universities to handle this wisely. The second is that it is important that we have a majority with external members, because our universities are government agencies. This requires that there is a correlation with an external majority elected by the government and that it is not a majority appointed by the profession. I think that is an important principle.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-72	Mr President, I would like to With the proposal from the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, we can continue to have a high level of accountability. As I pointed out in my opening speech, we in the Center Party are focusing on a changed resource allocation system but also on clearer political governance through goals and results rather than through, among other things, nomination policy. Autonomy and freedom are concepts in which one can choose to add different meanings, which we have obviously done on this issue, me and Thomas Strand. But hopefully we share to a large extent the view on the issue of increasing freedom locally. Our perspective is that the profession must be strengthened and the profession given greater influence in both election procedures and the appointment of Members. It moves the power closer to those affected, closer to those who are to a greater extent experts in education and research. We believe that this is a good way forward in order to strengthen our international competitiveness. We also point out in our reservation that there can be proposals for both internal and external members. Higher education institutions are free to think about how to develop, move forward and gain stronger and better international competitiveness. This could include, for example, the appointment of external members with different expertise that you see need for at the local university. As far as the electoral procedure is concerned, I personally see a risk with the wording presented by the government and the committee has a majority in favour of it being the university that chooses its own nomination person. I would like to conclude by asking Thomas Strand whether he sees a risk with this and whether he thinks it is a good system. Instead, what we are proposing is that there should be an election procedure within the university's profession in order to increase autonomy by shifting power closer to those who are really affected and moved to the profession.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-76	Mr President, I would like to I see no risk of this being abused. I have full confidence in our universities and trust that they will handle this in an excellent way. I have reacted to the two reservations expressed by the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats in this report. I think it's a little strange. You speak beautiful words of autonomy. But then you quickly slip into regulations. It must be a local election procedure, you say. But if you propose autonomy, you have to pull the whole line right out. Each higher education institution must then decide for itself whether it should be an election procedure or whether it should otherwise appoint the person it proposes that the government appoints to the nomination group. I think this is clashing with autonomy. It will be a beautiful speech that one then forgets when it comes to practical touch. As far as the majority conditions are concerned, I think it is important that we have external members in the majority. You want the majority to be appointed by the profession, as you write in your reservation. I do not think it is a good procedure, because it is a board that should be responsible for a state authority. If we are to be accountable, it requires that we have external members in the majority, as a majority in the committee also thinks. However, there is nothing to prevent the presence of people who are based in academia among these external members. It's pretty common. There is no contradiction. But the principle is important. If it is a government authority, the external members appointed by the government shall be in a majority.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-80	Mr President, I would like to We do not ask for approval of anything other than the government proposal on this matter. On the other hand, we have a specific opinion. It should be seen as a sign that we intend to follow up how this will work in practice. We have to let the proposal roll in a couple of years. Then it has to be evaluated. There is no way behind a desk to find out how this is going to work in real life. It has to roll for a while to see how it really works. The Boards of Higher Education are, of course, an important issue. A burning issue is the balance between the interests of the state and the independence of higher education institutions. It is not just the independence of higher education institutions that is important. The state has interests too. It's a lot of tax money. We believe that the Government's proposal is a step forward compared to the order in force today. That is why we are calling for this proposal to be approved. According to the proposal, a nomination committee, as it is usually called, should consist of two nominations, one of which is appointed by the Government and the other has good knowledge of the university. We simply think that this is reasonable. It is also reasonable for students and teachers to be represented on the board instead of being present on the board. Students are supposed to study and get an education and may not primarily be on a board. Part of the proposal talks about the size of the boards. We have understood that the government would prefer, if necessary, to reduce the board, and we think that is a good thing. My experience is that large boards themselves are no advantage. It'll easily just be a babbling board. In conclusion, this is a step forward, but if I may remain, I will follow this up after a few years and see how it works in reality. It is impossible to know in advance how such a proposal will work.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-86	Mr President, I would like to I ask for a reply because I think it is a rather strange procedure with the special opinion presented by the Swedish Democrats in the report. I like honesty. I'd really like to say that. I understand that the Swedish Democrats are honest in this particular opinion. At the same time, however, there is a weakness in that they basically swear free from responsibility. After all, it is about SEK 67 billion per year that goes to our universities, our universities and colleges, that these boards have at their disposal. Instead, they say: We do not currently have a proposal of our own. If so, why would they not have been able to agree to evaluate and follow up the results of the proposals? I think that would have been the usual order. Otherwise it gives a little sense of: What is this really about, Robert Stenkvist?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-89	Mr President, I would like to It is about the wording of the motion. It says in the motion that we will evaluate the investigation. It's not an investigation. It's a proposal, a strong bill from the government. If the wording had been different, we would have approved it. That's the reason. There is another reason, which may not be a cause. We have taken for granted that it will be evaluated. This type of proposal will be evaluated by the government, and any government that sits after 2018. But maybe you shouldn't start from that automatically. That's right. We are determined to evaluate this. It must, of course, be allowed to roll on a pair at once. But I'm going to call around and email around to the boards to see how they think it works. That is my determination. If the exercise had been formulated differently, we would have supported it.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-92	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to Robert Stenkvist for your answer, and thank you for your good ambitions. Now I do not really know what such an evaluation would do. If Robert Stenkvist calls around 50 higher education institutions to hear how the Board works, it may not be the same evidence-based compilation that we will then get to know. Robert Stenkvist says here that he could not support our reservation because it is about evaluating the investigation's proposal. These are the proposals that come from the Management Investigation. I don't really know on which foot you stand. What we want to say is that it is still about SEK 67 billion that goes to universities and colleges annually. It requires boards that function and principals who have mandates. Much of these questions come to light in the Management investigation. When I have spoken to our head of office in the Education Committee, I have been told that there is nothing else waiting at the moment when it comes to the Management Investigation. The management inquiry is largely about recommendations to the higher education institutions themselves. It is a form of collegial learning that we encourage in other contexts. Therefore, it would have been of the utmost importance to follow up on the investigative proposals that exist. If that is what the Swedish Democrats stand for here, it seems that you simply do not know which foot to stand on.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-97	Mr President, I would like to We are absolutely convinced that this is a step forward compared to the current order. That is why we are in favour. That's why we have responsibilities. If we wish to do so, we have a responsibility. That is undoubtedly the case. There's talk of evidence base. The investigation about this may have been very good. But I have seen many investigations that are so politicized that one can question the evidence base. Who knows better how a board works than those who actually work on the board and people around? It's as close to evidence base as we can get to those questions. It is not nuclear physics that we are talking about where you can read on a diagram exactly how it is. My intention is that we follow up on this. That's a lot of government money. Therefore, we believe that it is not just about the autonomy of universities, but the state has an interest. There is a great deal of tax money going there, and that applies to the future of Sweden as a whole. We're going to train future generations to pay our pensions. Of course it's very important. I fully agree with that.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-102	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden there is a great shortage of teachers, and not least the subject teachers in modern languages, mathematics and science. We politicians agree that there is a need for many new ways into the teaching profession. The proposal we are going to discuss today concerns one of them. We Moderates and other alliance parties believe that the principle behind today's proposal is right. It is something that may not be so strange given that it was first launched by the Alliance government. On the other hand, we are surprised by the deterioration of the original proposal by the current government. This testifies to low expectations of our highly educated academics and poor management of human and financial resources. Nor does the proposal provide any guarantee of increasing the number of lecturers in school, which is highlighted as an objective of the reform. Mr President, I would like to As I said before, the Alliance has launched a similar proposal. But it covered half the study time proposed by the government. People with doctoral degrees are among the highest schooled in academia, as I have said, and they have more than 20 years of studies behind them. We therefore believe that there are good reasons to assume that they could carry out their supplementary educational training in less time than others. In addition, the University of Gothenburg already provides one-year courses corresponding to those we are discussing, but then to students who have completed at least a bachelor's degree at university level. So the people we are discussing today have about four more years of study, independent work and methodical work behind them. In the original proposal of the Alliance, we also felt that doctoral graduates could be excluded from the scope of the so-called VFU, which is an operational education, since most of them have already taught and attended additional pedagogy courses themselves. Another question is, for example, the continuous work of 15 credits. Here we have those who have written their licentiate theses and doctoral theses but who will still write a work of 15 credits in some subject. We also believe that people who are eligible for this training should be able to combine their studies with a job at a school and then be exempted from the requirement of teacher identification for a short period of time. In this way we could get future lecturers to both secure their income and have the opportunity to start teaching faster. Everyone would benefit from that. This applies, in particular, to pupils and schools who thus have access to more qualified educators. It would also provide incentives for more schools to actually hire lecturers. With the government's proposal, there is no such guarantee despite the fact that it is a purpose of the reform, as I said. There is also no requirement for compensation from those who receive this training allowance. A follow-up should take place after six months, what I can read out, to see if the students are still studying. However, as far as I can understand, the education allowance of SEK 25 000 per month will be paid until then regardless of whether they are studying. You are welcome to clarify this in the ensuing discussion. Mr President, I would like to The funding of government proposals is interesting. The funds allocated to the reform correspond only to the training grants expected to be paid to applicants. This applies only to the 50 first applicants each year for a five-year period. Looks like the 51's got no money. I don't know how it's gonna work. This would mean that there will be no compensation whatsoever for the places of study at Karlstad University, Umeå University and Stockholm University that have submitted an application together with KTH and that the government has recently appointed to be responsible for the courses. I'm not the only one who thinks it's gonna be like this. In an article in the University teacher on 25 April, it says, among other things, that the higher education institutions do not receive any additional resources if they organise one-year KPU according to the government's new proposal, so the funds invested go to the person who chooses to attend the education. It's strange, to say the least. I hope that I will receive an answer to my question by representatives of the government parties in the debate. Mr President, I would like to I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-114	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Alliance's joint reservation to be approved. We are debating supplementary educational programmes for people with doctoral degrees. It was only a few weeks ago that we in the Education Committee held an open hearing in Parliament on the lack of teachers. It is becoming increasingly tangible and will be so in the future. A number of measures will be needed to address it. We need more people to go to teacher training, especially in certain areas where there is a particular shortage of teachers. We have a challenge in the fact that many today drop out of their teacher training – nearly a third of them do not graduate. In some educations there is even greater drop-out. Several measures are needed to encourage more people to join the teaching profession and the training courses. The profession needs to be made more attractive to apply to. This can range from salary and career paths to reduced administration and strengthened working environment. The Center Party recently presented proposals linked to fast track into the teaching profession for people with higher education degrees. For example, engineering engineers should be able to become math or NO teachers. We also propose the introduction of teacher assistants to reduce administration and thereby create greater attractiveness for the teaching profession. Recently, the Alliance also announced to the government to speed up work on digital national exams precisely in order to reduce administration and thus increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. These are important measures. What we are discussing today is about researchers and their ability to move towards a teacher's career, and that is extremely important. I would like to agree with much of what Betty Malmberg highlighted, linked to the fact that there are highly educated academics we are talking about here. That is also why the Alliance has put forward a proposal to further shorten the training period. These are people who have been teaching at university level for a long time, have taken courses in higher education education and have worked on similar assignments at university level. That is why it should be possible to go even faster. We also think it is extremely important that during the period when you read you should be able to be exempted from the requirement of teacher ID, precisely in order to be able to go directly into work and work already while you retrain to a lecturer. For the Center Party, we often talk about enabling education throughout the country. In this proposal, we in the Alliance make it clear in our reservation that we want to enable training to take place at a distance. It seems quite obvious given the groups we are talking about. It is people with a doctoral degree who are in the middle of life, who may have formed a family and who have a pretty safe life but want to switch to the teaching profession. That is why we are pointing out that distance learning is possible so that you can stay where you have your security and your family instead of having to move to one of the places that it will end up being. This is to make the teaching profession attractive for researchers. We need to remove obstacles to get people to take that step. The Government's proposal points to a few subjects to which supplementary education should be directed. The Alliance's reservation has clearly stated that there are more subjects and teaching subjects where there is a shortage today. It should, of course, be possible for those with a doctoral degree who want to retrain to lecturers and work in the teaching profession to do so even in other deficiency professions, not only those listed in the bill. With those words, I support the Alliance's reservation.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-127	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is facing a great shortage of teachers. Unfortunately, the forecast is that the shortage will increase in the coming years. We need to do more to succeed in recruiting the best students into the teaching profession, strengthening the attractiveness of the teaching profession and getting already trained teachers who have left the profession to return to school activities. We also need to create more pathways into the teaching profession, where supplementary education plays an important role. As we have heard here, the Alliance has previously launched a proposal similar to the Government's to carry out a temporary investment in a new special supplementary educational education leading to a subject teacher's degree for those with a doctoral degree. The Christian Democrats and the Alliance believe that the study period, which according to the Government's proposal is twelve months, should be shortened to six months of full-time studies. Doctoral graduates are the most highly educated in academia, and there are good reasons to assume that they can complete their supplementary education for a short period of time. Most of them have also taught at university level and have taken courses in higher education. We believe that it is justified that the training should also be carried out at a distance so that the obstacles for researchers who want to attend the training and become lecturers should be as small as possible. We in the Alliance also believe that researchers should be allowed to combine employment at a school with parallel studies in supplementary education. Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes that the education should primarily be organised for those with doctoral degrees with subject knowledge relevant to a teaching subject where there is a shortage of applicants for the subject teacher education, i.e. primarily mathematics, biology, chemistry, physics and technology. The Christian Democrats and the Alliance believe that since there is a great lack of subject teachers in modern languages such as German, French and Spanish, priority should also be given to graduates with a doctoral degree with subject knowledge in modern languages. I also want to open the door to investigate how the current supplementary education can be shortened to 60 credits and how it can better prepare the students for the teachers' everyday lives. With this, I would like to express my support for the reservation made by the alliance parties.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-137	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report. Sweden faces a serious shortage of teachers. It is the present government's ambition to overcome this through various proposals. Since government entry, a number of different measures have been taken – for example, the Government has gathered the parties for discussions in the National Collection for Teacher Proficiency. It is important that the proposals that will be seen as useful in the operation and do not impose additional burdens that no one has asked for. Therefore, the collection is extremely important as a common meeting place for important discussions. In this committee too, the lack of teachers is an important issue that is at the heart of our agendas. For example, we have just held an open hearing on the lack of teachers, and in our follow-up to the government's performance report we have focused in particular on the staff situation at school. The current government aims that Sweden should be a leading knowledge nation where no student is left behind and no one is held back. In this work, we know that teachers are the key, and with more researchers in school, we raise the quality and increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. It is therefore a good thing that this proposal from the government has now come – a proposal whereby four selected universities are given the task of organising, over a five-year period, supplementary educational education, known as the KPU, which leads to a subject teacher's degree for those who have a doctoral degree. The education should primarily be given for applicants with subject knowledge in mathematics, biology, chemistry, physics or technology because there is a great lack of teachers in these particular subjects. The initiative is also important in order to allow for an increase in the number of lecturers in primary and secondary schools and adult education. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics, there are 239 lecturers in the education sector, most of them in upper secondary school. This initiative doubles the number of senior lecturers in the Swedish school. In order to stimulate people to start and complete training, the government will also introduce a temporary taxable training allowance. It will be sufficient for about 50 full-time students per year, i.e. a maximum of 250 students. This is one of all the important measures proposed so far by the government to address the shortage of teachers. In the past, we in this House have discussed or decided on employment under certain supplementary training courses, increased support for Teach for Sweden, increased support for the education sector as a whole, as well as upgrading skills and much more. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the lack of teachers is perhaps the most important thing we, as elected representatives, have to work with in the future. That we succeed in recruiting the many thousands that are needed in school, that we get those who are already in school to want to stay and that we get some of those who have left the school to want to come back – that's what we need to focus on in the future. And given that this is perhaps our most important issue, it is a good thing that we manage across party boundaries to get together and agree on important proposals. I hope that we can continue to resolve the lack of teachers with more good proposals in common.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-147	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Svantorp talks about a lot about which there is a common understanding – how important it is that we get more teachers in place, that there are several ways in and so on. However, she does not answer any of the questions raised in the Alliance. She does not comment on why we in the opposition are making other proposals. She doesn't touch it with a word. Nor does she respond to the financing problems I raised in my speech. I think it is a bad thing, and I would like to repeat the issues that exist. How does Gunilla Svantorp see a shortened education, why can't the government see the value of this and why can't the government reward the skills of those in Sweden who have been sitting on the school bench for more than 20 years and have run independent projects with different methods to do their doctoral dissertations? Why can they not in any way be rewarded for this? Instead, they are classed with those who have four years of shorter training paths. It's strange. It is also an important question how we get the lecturers into the classroom. With the proposal of the Moderates and the Alliance, it is the school that forms the base. The school hires lecturers who, in addition to their work, can continue training at a distance. After all, it is in the classroom or at school that the lecturers may make a difference. How does Gunilla Svantorp think this will happen with the government's proposal?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-150	Mr President, I would like to It is already a shortened study period in this proposal. The usual KPU is 90 points, but this is 60 points. It is already cut by 50% of the time. This is important to remember. There was a lot of criticism about the fact that the first proposal did not include any training on the ground. Now it's included, and if you're going to have time for both business education and study the pedagogy needed, it's clear that at least 60 points are required. Betty Malmberg says that we are not taking advantage of the level of education these people have, but we are actually doing so by having a shortened study time for them. She says we don't reward them, but that's exactly what we do. They receive a training allowance that the others do not receive when they read the KPU. The researchers actually receive a training grant. I would like to say that they have a high priority in our efforts to get more staff at school. I think I've lost the other questions. Well, Betty Malmberg raised the issue of resources. The four universities that have now been selected have volunteered to arrange this education. Given the discussion we had in the previous debate on the autonomy of higher education institutions, we must assume that they have seen that they will not be able to do this. They want this education, or they wouldn't have applied.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-154	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Svantorp, for your answer! I'm not really happy with the news I'm getting. It also surprises me that Gunilla Svantorp does not even remember what questions I asked, because those are actually the questions that are in our reservation, except that I also added this about funding. When it comes to Gunilla Svantorp's finding that they already have a shortened study period, I note that she apparently did not hear what I read out in my speech. There are already courses with shortened study time where those who have a bachelor's degree from the university can study. They already exist. They are located in Gothenburg, Umeå and several other places. The training period is shortened, because you can see that you can have a more advanced level. Here we equate those who have done scientific work, independent work and had higher education pedagogy and in different ways gained completely different competences during four years of further studies with those who have a much lower level. Gunilla Svantorp also does not answer the central question of how we get teachers into the classroom. This is actually what it is all about. How do we get the government's proposals into the classrooms of schools, which are those with the highest scientific quality in their education and competence? Our idea is that the base is the schools, which independently write that they get a job and that the students study with higher study grants, which we think is necessary. How will this be done with the Government's proposal, Gunilla Svantorp?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-158	Mr President, I would like to Betty Malmberg equates researchers with good educators. This can certainly be the case in many places, but it is not automatic. I would like to remind you of the SFS, i.e. the students, who have repeatedly said that their university teachers need more educational education. In fact, 60 per cent of higher education institutions do not require all teaching staff to have higher education education education. So it cannot automatically be said that all researchers are very good educators. I mean, you can't. Through the shortened time, however, we take this proposal into account that they have read quite a lot. How do we get teachers into the classroom, Betty Malmberg asks. They'll have to do the VFU. Then there are at least 290 employers out there who should be interested in getting them in. We should not have to control it from the Riksdag and decide who they should hire. It is clear that employers themselves must find it very important to get lecturers into school. Let me answer your other questions, Betty Malmberg. Distance education, as you request, already exists. All four universities that have been selected have already outlined in their applications what distance education should look like. Betty Malmberg shakes her head, but this is actually in their applications. It says how to organise distance training. You are asking for something that already exists.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-161	Mr President, I would like to The ID checks introduced at the beginning of January hide something quite different from the word. The term id checks is misleading. It has never been about controls but about requirements. I would like to start by establishing that. It is an unconditional requirement to be able to show an ID to travel on a means of transport to Sweden. If you can't do that, you have to get off, and the opportunities to get to Sweden to apply for asylum are in practice gone. The ID requirements are like an administrative barbed wire fence. Think about the scenario! You are fleeing your bombed home in Al-Assad's Syria or succeed, with your life as an effort, leaving areas controlled by Daish. Is the first thing you think about saving your life, or making sure you have a valid ID with you? My guess is the first. Many of the unaccompanied young people from Afghanistan, for example, have lived their entire lives in exile in Iran. They are now expressed from there and can no longer stay. They've never owned an ID. The same applies to many young people who would be forced to recruit the military if they were to try to get an ID document. Mr President, I would like to What is it that says that someone who has a licence should have a greater right or opportunity to apply for asylum than someone who does not? Asylum law is fundamental. It's a right that all people should have. If we then erect walls, physical walls with barbed wire or administrative walls with id requirements, we have restricted that right. The ID requirements are and have always been a bad solution that makes it even more dangerous for people to enter Sweden to seek asylum. The option that remains is to hire smugglers and risk their lives on unsafe rubber boats or in tight cargo spaces. The main reason why the ID requirements were introduced was that the number of people who came to Sweden should be limited. In a way, it was understandable because with the rigid systems we have in Sweden we have capacity problems in the reception. The Center Party has put forward a large number of proposals on how we can change rigid systems to get more jobs, better integration and more housing. Proponents of the ID requirements cling to the argument that the number of asylum seekers has fallen. But it won't last. The flow of asylum seekers began to stop even before the introduction. The week before the introduction, the influx of people who came to Sweden to seek asylum fell from previously high levels to around 2,000 people. It's no wonder. We see the same pattern every year. Refugees leave during the warm months. Like Karl-Oskar-Oskar and Kristina, they leave when the weather permits, and the risk of losing their lives is somewhat lower during the summer than during the winter. The Center Party early warned that the border barriers Sweden has now introduced would trigger a chain reaction. It didn't take long before we got it right. Denmark introduced ID checks on trains at the border with Germany. It is an enormous sadness to see Europe conclude, with the ID requirements in Sweden and Denmark, walls or fences in Macedonia, Greece, Bulgaria, Hungary and Austria. It is a sorrow and a great betrayal of those who need help and protection. People are now desperately trying to get to Sweden by risking taking a deadly walk under the bridge. The first example of a capsized boat where a person was close to risking his life recently became a clear marker because people are prepared to take very big risks to get to safety, even if they lack identification. In Sweden there has been a crisis stamp on people. But it is not people who come who are in crisis. It's the systems that can't handle the pressure. The Center Party has been involved in a large and broad refugee agreement. It was necessary. But it is painful to see that many are now taking the easy path, which unilaterally insists on building walls, closing borders and pointing out the people fleeing here as problems, rather than changing the systems in order to provide protection for more and allow people to build a future in Sweden. The fact that we build walls and deny people entry does not mean that these people no longer exist. This simply means that they have an even more difficult situation than before. Among other things, the Center Party wants unaccompanied minors to be allowed to live with adult asylum seekers, instead of being placed in HVB homes that have staffed 24 hours a day. We also want asylum seekers themselves to be more involved in arranging housing. The idea that we can only receive people as long as it suits our Swedish model and as long as we can offer the standard that we ourselves think is good is understandable but not sustainable in the situation we find ourselves in now. With the policy of the Center Party, it may be tougher to be a refugee in Sweden. But you can at least come to Sweden as a refugee, rather than being stopped at the border. Out in the country, there's a lot of enthusiasts. There are companies that want to give jobs to those who come. At the same time, however, there are people who are refused to stay in Sweden because they have applied for work through the wrong channel. There are people who spend a large part of their free time helping refugees learn Swedish, understand society and find internships or make sure they only have someone to talk to. It is the municipalities that take the greatest responsibility for refugees who come to Sweden. In the Migration Agreement last autumn, the Centre Party received demands for municipalities to receive increased compensation in order to reduce the pressure on the municipal economy. In particular, account is taken of the number of asylum seekers staying in the municipality, the reception and distribution between adults and children. A total of SEK 10 billion will be invested, of which SEK 200 million will go to civil society organisations. It is money that is necessary to cope with the situation. The Center Party wants to focus on helping municipalities and other parts of society to cope with the refugee situation. We think that the system should exist for the people and not the other way around. That thought is difficult to combine with keeping people away at all costs. We do not see people as problems that society should solve, but as individuals of which society remains. Much needs to be changed in order for the system to suit the people, and much is what the Center Party has been talking about for many years. The rigid grey administration does not create jobs. It is people and companies who do it. Politics must reflect that. Sweden also needs a more open housing market and more simple jobs. We already needed that before last autumn, Mr President. The refugee wave we saw in the autumn did not hijack these problems, but made the shortcomings of our community building clear. Obsessive rules don't create housing. It is the freedom to build and the desire to invest that does. Part of the migration agreement is simplified rules for housing construction and the possibility for municipalities to apply for support if they build housing and receive newly arrived refugees. This can make it easier for municipalities and, by extension, create more housing. The Center Party also wants a first-housing guarantee at the municipal reception and have temporary modular apartments built to facilitate reception. We want more people to take responsibility for finding their own home, to have improved procurements for asylum homes with requirements for quality and supervision, reasonable remuneration and to allow a more free renting to increase the incentives to build more rental housing. Mr President, I would like to Quite apart from the personal disasters created by the ID requirements, they have also created chaos in one of Sweden's and Scandinavia's most interesting and competitive regions – Öresund. The ID requirements have led to up to one hour longer travel time, fewer flights in rush hour and increased congestion. Already 11 percent fewer passengers travel across Öresund. The effects of close to four months of ID control at Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup, in combination with the Swedish border control at the station in Hyllie can be seen on the number of train passengers on board the Öresund trains on their way to Sweden. When the ID checks were introduced on 4 January this year, the number of train departures across Öresund was halved at rush hour, while congestion increased on trains. Skånetrafiken's own calculations show that a traveler between Copenhagen and Malmö loses on average 32 minutes on each trip – 32 minutes. So for a day commuter it is about an hour or so a day. That's 20 hours a month. It's half a week of work. In a year, we talk about 240 hours per person. 240 hours are spent commuting instead of working. It is hardly the work line you follow when you let individuals waste their time sitting and waiting. What do you think it does for growth? What do you think it does for our ability to build a strong and powerful society? According to Sydsvenska Industri- och Handelskrumen, the demands cost the Öresund region 3 million SEK per day. For SEK 3 million per day and through lack of growth, increased hassle for individuals and companies and by setting hookbones for eight out of ten refugees who have no ID, the government buys themselves free. It is said that this law has been established in order to maintain law and order or to protect national security. How do refugees prevent us from maintaining law and order? How do they threaten national security? I'm worried it's just the opposite. When we close our borders and other countries follow, the chaos in the world and people's suffering increase. It is to contribute to the threat to international security – not to reduce it. And in our country, with a police organization going on its knees, is the only effort on the police that the government makes to ensure that travelers across the Sound have valid ID. Is it really more important than investigating crimes, fighting the criminal gangs that ravage the countryside, securing the safety of job creators from shoplifting and other things? Or why not look at the rapidly increasing number of fraud offences, from over 100 000 reported in 2014 to almost 150 000 in 2015, which we have to do something about. All of this, in my opinion, is more of a threat than any wave of refugees could cause. But for this, the government requires no breathing space. Mr President, I would like to Never have I felt the greater need to fight for a policy that seriously puts man before the systems. The Center Party is against the ID requirements. We want to see other solutions, solutions that put people ahead of the systems. Consequently, we reject the proposal that we are debating today, which in practice means more of the same kind. With that, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-189	Mr President, I would like to In a smut of public order and withdrawal time, Minister Ygeman and Minister of Justice Johansson have baked up a migration policy and legal policy cake that will wreak havoc for all those fleeing from war Syria and poverty Afghanistan. The government, together with many of the alliance parties, has talked about systemic collapses, while the war is raging and refugees are fleeing for their lives. Sweden's economy goes like a train, and public consumption is only increasing. In autumn 2015, Sweden introduced temporary internal border controls, ID controls. This means that when you get on the train to Copenhagen you should be able to show your ID. This applies to everyone, including all commuters. But the meaning of the ID controls was never the flare-up, great interest from politics whether people brought with them a ID or not. The idea with the ID controls was to send a signal, a signal that would go from Denmark to Germany, throughout Europe down to Greece and to Turkey and Syria, a signal that would say: Refugees, you are no longer welcome – it is a stop, it is here but it is no longer! But there was a gap in the legislation – there was a withdrawal period of two weeks. That withdrawal period was used to justify the introduction of the legislation. It was a justification for the fact that the government and politics would not have an incredible amount of power on this issue. But here today it is clear that this hatch was never meant to be used. The Committee on Justice has dealt with this issue not only once but twice in committee. There has been a rush, a rush – the hatch in two weeks, the withdrawal period, has been seen as something extremely dangerous. It has been a very short period of consultation for all those who would comment on the law. We are landing here today, when we stand and pretend that we in this House stand up for the right of asylum. We must remember that things are happening outside this House, that identity checks affect us. It is aggravating family reunification. It does something to us. It affects the way we look at refugees. In a few months' time, the Committee on Justice will be going to Greece to study borders, to visit refugee camps. I want us to know that it is we who have made sure that they are sitting there. It is our responsibility that children are locked up in camps in Turkey and Greece. It is our responsibility that children have been born in war Syria and never experienced anything else, children who have never had a proper health check, children who have never been to school. It's our responsibility. That is what we are deciding today. I am ashamed, ashamed of all those who voted for the Social Democrats and the Green Party and believed that they voted for solidarity, humanity and the right to asylum. I am ashamed of all those who believe that Europe has the solution to the problem. EU policy has failed. It's not working anymore. It does, however, lead to the introduction by country of symbolic policies such as identity checks, temporary residence permits and the aggravation of family reunification. We have the right solutions politically, but as things stand today, only symbolic political actions have value. The political debate has called for breathing space. Let us know that that breathing room leads to the deaths of 2,500 people each year in the Mediterranean. It's three times the Estonia disaster. It's death that gives us the breathing room. It's the suffering that gives us the breathing room. It is the permanent refugee camps that give us the breathing space. And we accept this because we are afraid. You're afraid of the people who would otherwise come here. But there's hope. There is a possibility of change. You can make a difference. We don't have to go this way. We can do as so many before us have done. We will follow what the Refugees Welcome movement did just a few months ago, when thousands of people gathered, with money, with clothes, with solidarity, with time for those who needed it most. It's not too late. We can make a difference, and the difference is made in this House. We must listen to our referrals, to the Chancellor of Justice, to Save the Children, to the Red Cross. They have a great deal of wisdom to say about, among other things, that ID controls are not the solution. We can do a lot together. There is political momentum, and that is what we must safeguard. We can also stop smuggling across the Mediterranean. If we were to open the roads into Europe instead of building walls, the smuggling would not be necessary. Smuggling leads to death in the Mediterranean and costs an incredible amount of suffering. We can stop it. We can have a dignified and humane reception of refugees. I'm appealing for it. That's the way we have to go. Together we can make this change. There's hope. I am addressing all politicians who celebrated Sweden's National Day two days ago. They promoted the Swedish values, waved the flag, ate cream cake and were extremely proud that Sweden is a country that many want to flee to. Where are you today? I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-203	Mr President, I would like to In this matter, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with the support of its right of initiative in Chapter 9. Section 16 of the Parliamentary Order, a proposal to amend the Act on Special Measures in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country. In this way, we will correct a strange construction of the law that we moderates and several others criticised already when the law was adopted in December. The change that is now being proposed does not mean that we get a law that looks like the one we originally advocated. But the remarkable withdrawal period that could cause major problems disappears, and that is in itself a good thing. The committee has worked out a memo on proposals for this amendment, which has also been referred to. This period of referral has been short, but it is twice as long as that in force when the government dealt with the issue. In essence, the consultation bodies have no objection to the change proposed in this case. It is important to be clear after the last speeches. On the contrary, both Trafikverket and Skånetrafiken point out that the withdrawal period, if used, would cause confusion in traffic. Then there are views on migration policy in general, but that is different from the one we are dealing with here today. When we consider this matter, it is a bit tempting to say: What did we say? However, the issue of special measures in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security is so serious that I simply note that it is good that the Parliament corrects an error. The background to the introduction of these special ID controls is the strong influx of asylum seekers and others who came to Sweden in autumn 2015. There are some who would argue that there was no problem. But let's remember what it was like. Sweden received a total of 160 000 asylum seekers last year, and only in October 40 000 people arrived. How many did not turn to the Swedish authorities we have no idea. But we know that more than 35,000 of those who came were unaccompanied children. The pressure on Swedish authorities and functions was very great. Buses with people were sent north, but you had no idea where they were going. The Migration Agency rented everything you could get over at any price. Exhibition halls became overnight accommodations, tent camps were planned, the control of family homes and other things broke and the police had to help arrange queues and sanitary solutions so that people could at least go to the toilet. It was very problematic. It was obvious that something had to be done, and some were done. The introduction of internal border controls and ID controls that we are discussing today were those that came in place to reduce the pressure and to get an order in receipt. When discussing these issues, I think we need to see how important it is that there is a good response and an orderly reception. Chaos doesn't help anyone, and lack of order doesn't help anyone. The Act means that the Government, or the authority that the Government decides, may issue regulations on identity checks for transport by bus, train or passenger ship to Sweden from another state. Provision may also be made for the supervision and control of the identity checks and for penalties in the event of infringements of such regulations. If the government makes use of the intervention facility provided by the law, the government must take into account EU law and assess whether the measure is appropriate, necessary and proportionate to the objective to be achieved. In order to fulfil, inter alia, the requirement of proportionality, a decision on checks shall not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objective of the measure. The provisions adopted shall be valid for a maximum period of six months. The reason is that the law allows the government itself, in a difficult situation, to take measures that may be intervention against individuals. It was with this argumentation that the parliamentary majority decided in December on a withdrawal period of two weeks before the government could renew the regulations. Today, we can see that the large influx of asylum seekers and others into Sweden has been curbed. However, the refugee crisis is not over. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecasts show several different scenarios depending on developments in the outside world and how different countries act. We still have huge challenges in dealing with all the people who are waiting to hear about asylum and anyone who needs education, jobs, housing and much more. The Finnish Immigration Service, the police and others are under great strain. The concern that, in the middle of the summer, the ID checks have been closed for two weeks has been evident. When the Committee on Justice visited the Southern Police Region in Malmö a few weeks ago, the issue was highlighted very clearly and very practical. It pointed out several problems and also pointed out how well-informed and fast human traffickers are in their actions. When we came home from that visit, we assured ourselves that the government was given corresponding information. We also made it clear from the committee that we were prepared to act quickly on the question of whether the government deemed it necessary. After all, it is the government that has access to most of the information and is responsible for the matter. A few weeks ago, a majority in the committee, including the government parties, agreed that the withdrawal period is a problem that we need to deal with. We have now. This means that the main responsibility for the law being used restrictively and that regulations are regularly evaluated remains the government. But we reduce the risk of major practical problems and suffering for individuals. We also ensure that the police, which are under great strain, do not have any further problems in this part this summer. In view of the problems that exist, I think that this is important, even if the issue is not so big. I support the committee's proposal.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-217	Mr President, I would like to As the chairman of the committee has said, the Committee on Justice has taken a committee initiative to propose to Parliament to amend the law on special measures in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country. The amendment removes the requirement of a two-week withdrawal period between the Government's decision to continue identity checks. The Act, which entered into force on 21 December last year, allowed ID checks to be carried out for a limited period of no more than six months. Thereafter, a withdrawal period of two weeks would run before the government could decide on a new period of a maximum of six months. The Regulation came into force on 4 January this year. It is this withdrawal period that our debate and Parliament's decision today apply. It doesn't apply if we're going to have the law or not. Nor does it apply if we are to have internal border controls, because it is the government that decides on internal border controls, following the recommendations of the European Council and in cooperation with the Commission. The law we are talking about today has a validity of three years, and this has already been decided by the Parliament. But today we are giving the government the power to extend the ID checks if there is a continued need, without the withdrawal period of two weeks. The government makes the assessment that there is a continued need. This is also true of the authorities involved in the decision, although everyone is very well aware of the complications associated with ID checks, for example, for those commuting to and from their work in the Öresund region. However, Sweden's objective is also to work towards a functioning external border for the EU and a return to free movement within the Schengen area, and then we must make things work. The measures taken by the government to reduce the flow of refugees to Sweden have given effect, and our authorities and municipalities have received the necessary breathing space to deal with the situation that arose when 163 000 people sought protection in our country for a very short time. When the law came into force, a proportionality assessment was made by the Government that a withdrawal period should be introduced between the extension decisions, both in order for the measures to be implemented in the light of EU law and in order to put pressure on the government not only to keep the law in force. Instead, a new assessment must be made before a new decision on identity checks is taken. The committee shared that view. In the spring, as I said, we have seen that the measures taken by the government to bring about a sustainable and dignified situation for the people who have sought protection from us have had an effect. At the same time, our authorities, as Beatrice Ask has just mentioned, have expressed great concern about what can happen once the Karen weeks take place. For this reason, after dialogue with the government, the committee is now taking an initiative to propose that the Riksdag decide to remove the withdrawal weeks. The committee has sent the proposal for a referral, and virtually all the authorities and stakeholders have endorsed the proposal. If they have had any comments, they have concerned the law as such and not the issue we are dealing with here today, even if there is an exception. The College of Commerce points out, among other things, that there has been no evaluation of the law, and it has its accuracy. However, in connection with the assessment of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal weeks, a decision on the extension is made for a maximum of four months if the need still exists, and that the Government will instruct the relevant authorities to evaluate the provisions of the law and see what effects they have had. This applies, for example, to the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, the Swedish Migration Agency, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Municipalities and the County Administrative Board in Skåne in collaboration with Region Skåne, the City of Malmö and the Öresund Institute. The assignment shall be presented to the Government Office during the autumn, and this evaluation shall form the basis for any decision to extend after November. This is an important part of the whole underlying the initiative. With this, Mr President, I call for the committee's initiative and proposals in the report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-227	Mr President, I would like to The reason for introducing the withdrawal period was that the government would not have too much power. Save the Children in particular states in their opinion that the two-week deadline was never meant to be used, and the Chancellor of Justice agrees with that. According to the Finnish Immigration Service, the withdrawal period will not affect the refugee situation either. That is why I wonder: why was there such a big change? Why has the government changed its mind? Was the withdrawal period supposed to be used at all?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-228	Mr President, I would like to The withdrawal period was included in the law. If we had not stood here today and had had an initiative from the Committee of Justice – or that the government itself had come up with a new amendment on which the Parliament should take a position, as we shall do at the vote this afternoon – the government would therefore have to have a withdrawal period. After all, the Government cannot draft a bill that has been adopted by the Riksdag. That is why we are going in today to table the amendment. Of course, it was the intention from the beginning to have the withdrawal period, but as I said in my speech, a proportionality assessment was made. When you make a proportionality assessment, you put different things in the scales. Then it weighed on having this deadline – one should have the withdrawal period – so that it would not run on. Had the law that we agreed would have been in force for three years, the government would not have had any obligation to actually stop and see if the need still existed or whether it was the case that you could stop with the ID checks. Then the government could have said: Let's let it run for three years. So there was a small limit – or a rather large limit. Now we are looking at this, as we have done in the spring. The government has closely monitored all developments. You can see what has happened and what effects it has had, as well as the concerns of the authorities, and then you make a different assessment in terms of proportionality. Then it weighs over the scales that say that there will be quite major complications if we have the withdrawal time. This applies both to the transport sector and to the risk of a different space for traffickers.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-231	Mr President, I would like to So it was not intended to use the withdrawal period at all; that is the only way I can interpret the answer. I have another little thought. On the Social Democrats' website you can read in a tab what the Social Democrats are doing on the refugee issue. Here it is possible to read about ID checks so that fewer people will go to Sweden, limited residence permits and that the right to assistance will cease. These are the first three proposals. However, there are no proposals that really make a difference; there are only proposals that stop, reduce and say no. My questions are: what do the Social Democrats want to answer all the refugees who have made their way through Europe to save their lives? Why are you talking so much more about breathing space and proportionality assessments than about the right to actually live?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-234	Mr President, I would like to We, on the Socialist side, have chosen to say yes to being in the European Union. This means that we stand up for the opportunities and obligations of EU membership. This means that we have also said yes in this case to the Schengen Agreement, which means that we have an external border. If the external border does not work, each country has the opportunity to enter and take action. But our objective is to have a Europe that also works in terms of refugee policy. We want all the countries of the European Union to take joint responsibility, which is not the case today. We want there to be proportionality in this case too, so that we can help each other between the countries of the European Union. We see all the problems and concerns and all the suffering that Linda Snecker is talking about, but we also see that we need to help each other in Europe if we are to do something. We are in favour of EU membership and we are in favour of Schengen cooperation. It is from those borders that we also uphold the right of asylum. It does not say no to the right of asylum, because the right of asylum means that people have the right to seek asylum in the first safe country. For us, this means that whoever comes within the borders of the European Union – within the Schengen area – is on safe ground. Then we have a task to help distribute. We think, for example, that we should have a much larger quota refugee system, so that we can make a completely different distribution. But that is not the question today. Today is the question of whether we should refrain from having two weeks of karensen.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-237	Mr President, I would like to This morning, at Ekot, I heard that Arbetsförmedlingen's manager warns of labour shortages in Sweden, at the same time as the government puts on all the crates you can to reduce the influx of people to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to As I presented in my speech, Skånetrafiken's own calculations show that a traveler between Copenhagen and Malmö loses an average of 32 minutes on each trip. For a day commuter, it's about an hour a day, 20 hours a day, half a week of work. In a year we talk about 240 hours – for anyone who has forgotten what I said in my speech. 240 hours, six full weeks of work a year, disappear in commuting instead of work. What does Helene Petersson in Stockaryd think this means for growth in Sweden? The Prime Minister, at least at the beginning of his term of office, said that this government would be a job government, that jobs were the most important thing. How does Helene Petersson in Stockaryd believe that the ID requirements affect job growth in the Öresund region in Sweden?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-240	Mr President, I would like to Helene Petersson in Stockaryd thinks that this obviously affects job growth, and this has also been pointed out by the Öresund region. We have seen evaluations from both companies and institutions in the Öresund region that clearly say that this affects. People who have planned to apply for a job in Copenhagen may not do so but stick to Sweden. People who have planned to look for work in the Malmö region and live in Copenhagen may refrain from doing so because of this. We are well aware of this. I shall now return to the two weeks of withdrawal, which we are discussing here today. At the same time, transport companies say that the weeks of withdrawal only cause them trouble. They have worked up a system and say themselves that they are making it more efficient. There is certainly a great deal that can be done to make this flow in a better way than it is today, and that has come quite a long way. There are still delays. But they say that the two weeks of karen, which we are going to remove today, are causing trouble, because then they will suddenly let go of everything they have started and in 14 days they will start it all up again. It's causing more trouble than having it running.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-243	Madam President, I would like It is an argument that may contain some logical gaps. I take it that the government is in favour of removing the withdrawal period, but it is actually a little bit against the ID requirements. Does the government continue to take care of growth and jobs, or has it changed priorities, from jobs to stopping the influx of people into Sweden? Then I have another important question to ask, and that is what makes it precisely the possession of an ID document that will decide whether a person should have the right to go to Sweden to seek asylum. Are there not other, more appropriate discernment factors? Or why not close the borders altogether? Wouldn't that be easier? The argument is that it would be complicated to stop ID checks. It's so easy. It's just to stop checking the id. People are still going on vacation during the summer, so just don't. It's so easy, I don't buy that argument. I would very much also like to have an answer to another important question. The whole legal basis for the ID requirements is that there is a danger to public order, a threat to national security. I would like Helene Petersson i Stockaryd to explain what she considers to be the danger that exists now for public order and/ or national security when refugees come to Sweden.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-246	Madam President, I would like Proportionality also applies here. The government does not decide to extend the ID checks unless the need exists. And the need still remains, because you don't know what the inflow will be and what will happen. We have our neighbours around us who have still not been able to register refugees. I return to Schengen cooperation. It is at the external border that asylum should be sought. If we are to make it work, we must work on that front and ensure that the external Schengen border works. It is the same with internal border controls. These have been authorised by the European Commission to continue, because we are not making external border control work. This is an issue that we have had in the Committee on Justice many times. Johan Hedin talks about labour shortages. Yes, we have received 163 000 refugees, and it is indeed a challenge for us that these people should receive relevant education and find housing where they can actually get a job. The Social Democrats are very much in favour of the job line. Jobs are our top priority. That is why we are going to put the punches right on the 163 000 refugees. We have a shortage of labour in various places, but we also have people in the country who do not have a job today. It's an equation to make sense.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-250	Madam President, I would like The fact that we are here today to remove the so-called withdrawal period for the ID controls is thanks to the Swedish Democrats. There is no other way to see it, and I will explain why in this speech. Before going into it in chronological order, I can add that this dossier and this debate are an excellent example of the inability of the other seven parties to analyse reality. I have been dealing with this inability in several recent speeches, and now I have another reason to do so. Jimmie Åkesson said in the party leader debate the other week: Welcome to reality! It has to be said that is a very appropriate choice of words from us Swedish democrats to the rest of you. We have seen that reality for decades now, while during the same time you have created and fueled the disastrous development that reached its culmination last autumn. You in common, the left and right, the red-green and the Alliance, are the same breathing children. The simple fact is that no other party except SD wanted to remove the withdrawal period. Sure, M, KD and Liberals put forward a proposal to remove it, but I'll get back to why it didn't save them. Madam President, I would like What happened? On 9 December, the Government submitted the bill to the Swedish Parliament. Members of Parliament then had to submit amendments to the bill, which all did except for the two government parties. The Center Party and the Left Party wanted their habit faithful to open borders and called for rejection. The other parties had a little different proposals, all in a relaxing direction, including a joint reservation from M, KD and L, which I will comment on in a moment. We Swedish democrats also had amendments. Unlike the others, our proposals were all in a tightening direction. The matter then came to a debate in this House on 17 December. Like the amendments tabled by all the other parties, the debate was about how the law could be relaxed and how it had to be used so that it would not be used too much, while the government stood and defended the withdrawal period that they have now agreed to remove. It's gonna be pretty humorous. The Moderates here say that they have been against the withdrawal period, in accordance with the reservation, together with the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. There is a problem here, a rather big problem. At the same time, you wanted the law to end on June 21, 13 days from now. That's what KD, M and L said in their reservation. It's not surprising that you want to remove the withdrawal period when you want to remove the law at the same time, is it? Then what's the withdrawal time for? The Moderates may argue that since the clean-up period would be extended in 30 days, they did not want a withdrawal period of two weeks every 30 days. Sure, they can argue that, but the fact is still that the Moderates want to remove the law. In 13 days we would have stood without a law if the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals were to decide. There's not much to save in that discussion, is there? The question to these three parties is: do you still want the law to be removed in 13 days from now? You have a chance to take a line on me and tell me. Madam President, I would like To sum up: we had seven parties in this House who either did not want any ID controls at all, V and C, or wanted the ID controls to be removed in 13 days from now, M, L and KD, or wanted a completely incomprehensible and indefensible withdrawal period for two weeks, S and MP. After all this, however, the proposal was voted through as the government had presented it, in other words with the withdrawal period. We Swedish democrats thought it was crazy to stop the ID checks for two weeks this summer. On 17 March, we therefore launched a so-called committee initiative in the Committee on Justice to remove the withdrawal period provided for in Section 6. The question was raised. The following week, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson came to the committee to inform about the withdrawal period. At the meeting on 17 March, all parties had announced that they were not going to support our proposal when we were going to vote on it the following week. But half an hour after everyone had announced that they were not going to support the proposal to remove the withdrawal period, the Moderates went out into the media and said they were worried about the withdrawal period. That was kind of funny, too. When Morgan Johansson came to the committee on 22 March, I asked him how the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party justified the withdrawal period. I got an answer, and I haven't received anything else since. Morgan Johansson said it was to be able to evaluate the law. That's an amazing answer, because it's pure chatter. Let's think about what that would mean. What is it that makes ID controllers about 700 km south of Stockholm have to leave their post and the border wind by wave in order for the Swedish government up in Stockholm to be able to evaluate it? It is hardly Ygeman, Morgan Johansson or Löfven who stands and controls identity documents, is it? Does the government really mean that you do not have the ability to evaluate the law but that the boundaries are completely open? In her reply, Helene Petersson of the Social Democrats said that the law has been continuously evaluated. So the government lied to us earlier? Did Morgan Johansson lie to us on the Justice Committee? Madam President, I would like To be honest, that's one of the dumbest statements I've ever heard. When the withdrawal period is removed, does the government mean that you cannot evaluate the law because we will not have any withdrawal period this summer? Is it impossible to evaluate now? I would like answers to that from the Social Democrats. On 22 March, just after Morgan Johansson has been in the committee and justified the withdrawal period by the need to evaluate the law, the committee votes on the Swedish Democrats' proposal. Everyone voted no, including the Moderates. We Swedish democrats did not give up, but raised the issue again at the meeting on 14 April. As the committee believes that the proposals of the Swedish Democrats, unlike those of other parties, should be postponed – so different parties are dealt with differently in the Committee on Justice too – we only voted on 21 April. Not surprisingly, all the other parties voted against our proposal to remove the withdrawal period. Madam President, I would like It may get messy with all the dates, but on 21 April all the other parties had voted three times either to maintain the withdrawal period or to remove the law completely. They took place on 17 December, 22 March and 21 April. Madam President, I would like Now it's gonna be fun for real. What happened exactly seven days after the other seven parties voted 'no' for the third time? Well, all of a sudden, except for the Center Party and the Left Party, everyone has changed their minds. It's amazing! At the meeting on 28 April, the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Green Party will come up with exactly the same proposal that the Swedish Democrats have made three times before – no later than seven days before. I will read out the SD proposal, and then I will read out the proposal presented by the other parties on 28 April. This is what our proposal made three times about: a government proposal for special measures in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country has several shortcomings. One of them is the withdrawal period of two weeks according to paragraph 6. I would like the committee to raise an initiative that this paragraph should be deleted and that the timetable should be such that the law is amended before the planned withdrawal period enters into force. ..................................................... This is why the other parties voted against three times. Then they came up with their own proposal, which they naturally pretended they had come up with all by themselves and that the previous rounds with the Swedish Democrats had not existed.
i-DTpHm6Zrfy8rtBTJEuVJm4	1...................................................... To return to the committee as soon as possible with a basis for decision with a view to deleting §6... the clause containing the provision for a withdrawal period of two weeks. 2. To update the previous timetable how this information can be processed in Parliament in order to be decided by Parliament's chamber before the summer break. ..................................................... It is an almost identical proposal, but when we said it three times about it it did not fit. Madam President, I would like The fun doesn't end here. The moderates' justification for why they did not vote for SD's proposal was that the government will be able to handle it, you have time and, among other things, among others. However, when the matter is being dealt with, it is not the government that does so, but the parliament. Now the reason is that the government does not have time to do so and that it is quicker to do so through the Riksdag. It's kind of interesting. In fact, the Riksdag does so for one reason only: The government has painted itself in so many corners that it has lost count. The Swedish Democrats have pressed on this issue, but we have it black and white in the Minutes that the other parties have not wanted to do anything about it. During an official Question Time in the Swedish Parliament on 14 April, I got Ygeman to say that the government does not intend to take away the withdrawal period. How do you keep the mask the easiest? Well, you let the parliament do it. It would be too obvious if the government were to back down after almost six months of affirming that the withdrawal period is needed. It even went so far that the Home Secretary suddenly said it was not his or Morgan Johansson's question. Instead, he referred to the Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson on Question Time. But wait a minute: if it is Anna Johansson's question, if it is an infrastructure issue, why were we in the Committee on Justice dealing with the issue? Can anyone explain that? Why did Morgan Johansson come to the committee and explain the law? Why did Ygeman do numerous interviews in Swedish Radio on January 20 and explained that the law should be evaluated? Why was it Ygeman who discussed the matter with the Danish Minister of Justice? Why was it Ygeman and not Anna Johansson who stood at Folk och Försvar and said that it wasn't to fuck with us that we introduced ID controls? If it was not the question of the Justice Committee, of Ygeman or of Morgan Johansson, why did Ygeman comment on the Swedish Law Council's opinion on the law that the situation was urgent and that the government had to be able to act? Madam President, I would like This is an ex-post construction by Anders Ygeman and the Government. He tries to distance himself from the failure he and Morgan Johansson stood for. By postponing the question to another minister, he tries to avoid the embarrassing situation that they have been wrong, hugely wrong. But Anders Ygeman, Morgan Johansson and the whole government were wrong. So did the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. The Left Party and the Center Party are still wrong. There is only one party of honour in this House. It is the only party that directly saw what needed to be done and proposed and argued for just that. The five parties that are now changing are doing so for a simple reason. SD has pressed the question, and three times we have got black and white that no one else wanted to remove the withdrawal period. But now you dare not stand with your beard in the mailbox if something should happen during the withdrawal period and our borders would be flooded because of immigration, as we saw last autumn. What would you say? That you didn't know? That you couldn't foresee this? No, it would be difficult, almost impossible, because SD has made this obvious to you. Now that we are voting on this, it is a Swedish-democratic amendment of the law that you are voting on. It is worded as we put it back in December. We are very pleased that we have brought with us so many parties to implement a Swedish Democratic proposal to the letter. However, my long speech is mainly about what I said at the beginning: the almost total inability of the other parties to understand and analyse the reality around them. This inability has led to innumerable breakdowns, such as mass immigration, a defence that has been driven to the bottom, a police force that cannot or does not want to do what is necessary, that we joined the European Union, energy policy – yes, take any question! For my life, I cannot understand how parties that fail in one or more big, heavy issues – not for a day, a week or a year, but for decades – can enjoy any confidence of the Swedish people. There's something I need to learn to understand. This time you managed to avoid another fad. This time we were in SD here to tell you what was needed. Perhaps – one can hope – it is a small sign of sobering. A tip for the future is to listen to us now, and then you won't have to listen to us. Having said that, Madam President, I support the proposal contained in the report. It is always fun to see SD policy become a reality in this House. As Jimmie Åkesson said, welcome to reality!
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-299	Madam President, I would like You may not be surprised, but today I think Kent Ekeroth has been unusually self-righteous and conspiratory. We have become accustomed in this House to the fact that the Swedish Democrats constantly claim that everything would have been better if they had done as the SD said and that everyone is actually following what the Swedish Democrats say. I would say that it is the Swedish Democrats who find it difficult to take in reality and how politics works. It's about counting up a majority. It is about proposals in the Swedish parliament being well prepared. It is about ensuring that the government takes the responsibility it has and that the parliament does not take the card away from it. It is also about sticking to the facts. On the question of withdrawal time, the Moderates' proposal did not contain a withdrawal period. We wanted a temporary law for the reason that we wanted to give the government the opportunity to come up with a better proposal, because it was rather hasty from the beginning. So there was a reason. This did not mean that we thought that we would not have legislation, but that it would look different. It will be a decision in the Swedish Parliament that contains the construction that we obviously agree on is strange. It is a question of trying to see how this problem can be addressed. I would like to say that it was an important point when we visited Malmö and, in substance, discussed the important problems we see there. We have seen some moves everywhere, but then we realized that several authorities were very worried. Then there was reason to go back and call Morgan Johansson to the committee. It is true that we were then clear about what to do. Don't come up with post-constructions, Kent Ekeroth, where you're trying to say that we stand for something that we don't stand for!
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-305	Madam President, I would like I will read from the joint reservation that the Moderates, among others, are behind. The reason you wanted the law to end on June 21st was not that you wanted to force the government to do something better, Beatrice Ask. You can do that by an announcement or something else. This is how you wrote in your reservation: and the law also gives the government the opportunity to take far-reaching action. It is important that these opportunities are not used to a greater extent than is necessary. The law should therefore have a more limited period of validity than proposed by the government. We propose that the Act expires on 21 June 2016. ..................................................... It was not a matter of concern that it was a trap, but you were afraid that the government would be given too far-reaching measures. So it was a liberal approach to the proposal that made you want to remove the law in 13 days' time. That's why-- you put it in your own reservation. We're not the ones who do post-construction. Fortunately, everything is written down in black and white. To be honest, make better proposals. Is that how you do it? Should you abolish all the laws that you think are insufficient to force the government to come up with something else, instead of – as we are doing now and as the Swedish Democrats asked for three times – changing it themselves? It is much more effective than threatening the government with the law going out and we hope that they have the sense to introduce a new law that is better. What will the legal text look like to fit the Moderates? It's obviously had a pretty good effect-- what's needed? The argument that it will take so long for the government to do so does not hold. It did not take long for the government to present the bill or, for that matter, for the bill to go through after it came through. It says black and white why you did it, Beatrice Ask: You wanted to remove the law. In 13 days from now, we would have stood without it in case you had to decide. Fortunately, we pressed on the issue, so now we stand here and get the right decision.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-311	Madam President, I would like It may be a little presumptuous, but I know what we Moderates thought and think. I know the reasons behind, and the arguments. The technology in the political work to get a better prepared proposal can be the one we chose, although it obviously does not suit the Swedish Democrats. But the fact remains: we felt it was important for the government to take full responsibility. We had a discussion about the problems we saw, and we found a consensus. Then the bill time had expired, but we could still deliver and make sure to secure it. We must always count up a majority, we must have stability in proposals and we must ensure that things are corrected. It may not be exactly what we would have liked it to be, but this is getting better. That's the important thing – that's the reality. The essence of politics is not to stand and make up stories about how it has been or who has done what, but to actually solve practical problems. We have no reason from the Swedish Parliament to unnecessarily serve smugglers. That is what we are putting an end to the change that is now being made. Then you have to follow it up. It is important – it was from the beginning and still is – that the law is used on the basis of the criteria that are laid down. It should be proportionate, and there should be an assessment that makes it about serious situations and risks that are handled. This is still there, and I think the proposal is better in that part. I share the view that it was very messy when it comes to who takes responsibility for what, but one thing the Swedish Democrats must learn: the government always decides collectively. The wrong minister can be out talking on one issue because they are always responsible for the whole government policy. It's something you have to learn.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-317	Madam President, I would like Beatrice Ask says the entire government is collectively responsible. Yes, that is right, but why does Anders Ygeman stand in Parliament's Question Time and blame it if it has joint responsibility? He told me it wasn't his question but Anna Johansson. Then he breaks what Beatrice Ask said. No matter how you twist it and turn it around, it's going to be wrong. First of all, with regard to the fantastic way in which you want to lay off a law because you claim that the government will then come back with something better and that it would not fit SD is not true. We can read about this – that was not the reason. Secondly, SD's policy went through to the letter – exactly as it would be. No one wanted to put the beard in the mailbox when we get 10,000 a day or a week again. Beatrice Ask resented a little that I made a speech that was more or less a what-was-it-we-sa speech, but I think it is extremely relevant to know who has done what when and how. I'm not trying to convince you in here-- that's what I've given up a long time ago-- but I'm trying to convince everyone who watches this on TV or Yo utube a little later. They should know who made the correct analysis from the beginning, just as we did in terms of immigration policy, criminal policy or the European Union, which will soon be revealed. The confidence of voters must be based on the ability of politicians to anticipate reality and to carry out an accurate analysis of it. When we have been doing this for six months and people have constantly denied it, it is relevant for the voters, to whom we turn, to know who said what when, not that during the gallows you do something because you do not want to stand there when things go wrong. Minister after Minister of the Government has affirmed that the withdrawal period is needed to evaluate the law, but now they are taking away the withdrawal period. I hope we will hear a justification for this. There are so many errors and corners you have painted yourself into during six months. The people deserve to know how it happened. How else can they decide who to vote for?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-323	Madam President, I would like I think I gave a lot of answers in the other lines to both Kent Ekeroth's and Kent Ekeroth's questions. But I have a question for Kent Ekeroth : Do the Swedish Democrats at some point put a aspect of proportionality in their reflections and analyses – that there is a reality that is not just black or white and yes or no and that there are different arguments for what can weigh up against one or another proposal? The distribution of power is very important: It is the Riksdag that decides but the Government that implements. Parliament is not supposed to take over the work of the government. In this case, the committee has taken an initiative in consultation with the government. There was a time aspect: How would we best make it work? The government has a responsibility to make an overall assessment. The government has a responsibility to follow a matter and a decision it has made. What's it gonna be? What's going on? Does it have an effect? What do the various authorities say? What do the different transporters say? What happens to the decisions we make? This is exactly what the government has been doing all spring. It hasn't been evaluated. It's been followed up. The government has continuously followed the issue. However, from the proposal that is now before us, when we have said, in consultation with the government, that it is a good thing that we are removing the withdrawal period, it also follows that there should be a proper evaluation in the autumn. Therefore, the law shortens the decision by a few months.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-327	Madam President, I would like Helene Petersson's speech does not hold. What she said is typically political talk: you have not evaluated, you have followed up. It's great that you replace the words, Helene Petersson – just as if it would help! Let's think about chronology. The withdrawal period begins this summer. Morgan Johansson, Anders Ygeman and everyone else affirm that we need the withdrawal period to evaluate the law and that this will happen this autumn. What is the withdrawal period for? Should passport controllers and everyone else down there take time off for Anders Ygeman and company to be able to evaluate the law up here in Stockholm? I still haven't been told. This is the only justification put forward by Morgan Johansson in committee. Nor did I receive any other justification from anyone else, and I have not heard anyone to date. What's the point of the withdrawal period? Can someone explain it to me? Why is it needed? Can't you evaluate the law without the withdrawal period? Can't you follow up on the law without it? There is no rhyme and reason in this, and that is exactly why we are standing here today and taking away the withdrawal period. Helene Petersson wonders if the Swedish Democrats ever make a proportionality assessment. Yes, we do, and in this case we are so far below it, so there is no such thing. We want permanent ID checks and permanent border controls. We do not think that you should be allowed to apply for asylum at the border or in Sweden when you come from Denmark. What do you run from – rød pølse? Or what are you running from? You have no right to apply for asylum if you come from safe countries and have shopped for asylum on your way to Sweden. Can you answer the question now? What was the point of the withdrawal period? Why was it needed? Why did government representatives say that they need the withdrawal period in order to evaluate the law?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-332	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Swedish Democrats want continuous and permanent ID controls as well as internal border controls and border controls at all is a fairly well-known position. After all, you do not want Schengen cooperation or membership of the European Union, but it is an issue that we are not discussing today at all. For me, monitoring and evaluation are two different things. I have worked in school and childcare for quite a number of years. When we talked about follow-up – that there is continuous monitoring of different activities and parts – it was something completely different from when we made a proper evaluation. That is what has been decided on now. The reason for the two weeks was also that the law lasts for three years. We agreed from the beginning that it would be a temporary law. It would be limited in time, and it would last for three years. But in order for the government not only to allow the law to run for three years without demands or pressure for evaluations, we said it would be a withdrawal period. There was a proportionality assessment, as I said in my speech and in the lines. EU law was weighed up and examined whether it was okay to have a law that runs for three years. A proportionality assessment was therefore carried out. Now it has been seen that with the effects that have been achieved – how transporters and authorities have dealt with it – we do not need the withdrawal weeks. That is why the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in an initiative in consultation with the Government, proposes that we remove them.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-335	Madam President, I would like Helene Petersson said that you should not just let the law run and that you therefore need the withdrawal period. It's fascinating. So we are building holes in the legislation. One has introduced a law that one considers necessary, but one would rather not use it all the time. It's going to be pretty weird. You don't want to let the law run, but if someone utters criticism or there is a discussion with the government or the media about what to do, the withdrawal period will not save this. This is a violation of EU law. What did the withdrawal period have to do with it? I did not get an answer to this. I have still not heard a good argument that the gaps that allowed people to roll freely into the country would help neither follow-up nor evaluation – which word is now being used. Should you comply with EU law or just let the law run? There is nothing in the withdrawal period that makes any difference. What's the withdrawal time? Is it some kind of ventilation hole so that the immigrants who are in Germany can have some hope of getting into Sweden – about 20 000 in two weeks? There's no rhyme or reason. You screwed up. You were so wrong for so long, and you painted yourself in so many corners. Now you've come out thanks to us. That's great. You know what? We're so happy that so many people are joining us. But this was a great epic failure by the government, and no one has been able to properly justify why to have this withdrawal period. To be honest, as I said in my speech, I think that the debate should call for some kind of reflection from the parties advocating this position – not least the government parties. I do not know what was behind it; probably someone from the Green Party did something. Nevertheless, it is quite humorous how everything has taken place in the different tours back and forth. The attempts to get out of the bear shears that you have put yourself in are incredibly humorous.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-339	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. It is positive that we can find such a broad parliamentary consensus on this issue and in this way resolve a problem that has been jointly identified and led to a solution in the cooperation of the government and the Committee on Justice. We have heard a great deal of discussion about this particular interaction in recent speeches. It is about democratic work – footwork – in cooperation between the government and committees to resolve the problem in a good and constructive way. We have heard the discussions and history from both Helene Petersson and Beatrice Ask. How has this really come to light? It is also a question of increasing concern about what the withdrawal period could cause. This involved, for example, the visit to Malmö and the South Police Region, where I was also present. I then raised my eyebrows a little and really took to heart the concerns expressed by the police. These are the concerns we have been working on, and we have now come to this report. We have already heard a great deal during the debate, but I would still like to raise a few points. I can see two reasons for the withdrawal period as it was and still is constricted. One is that a temporary law should not just give the government the right to run on. The law is valid for a maximum of six months, and there should be a clear break in between. Then there is evaluation. When you have a temporary law that specifically highlights the issue of national security, it is important that it does not proceed automatically without interruption. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Government has announced that, in addition to the decision to extend the law, there will be a thorough assessment of whether the law is needed in future. The flow of refugees has decreased considerably. Sweden's reception is also beginning to come to an end. We should bear this in mind. The flow of refugees last autumn and winter was very large, as has been mentioned in the speaker's chair several times. Sweden took a huge responsibility within Europe for the reception of refugees. I'm proud we did it. But it put our reception system under unreasonable pressure. We still notice this. At the same time, we can also see the positive. Today we can see something that I would like to call a new peoples' movement, an integration movement. I come from Södertälje, a municipality where we have struggled with integration for many years. I have called for this and I have missed that participation throughout the country. Today we have such participation throughout the country, I would say. Of course, there was a lot this autumn and winter, and that's what's behind this law. That is why it is very important now to see if it is still needed. Do we still need ID checks? That is what the government has announced – a proper assessment of whether they are still needed. This evaluation will also include Region Skåne and Malmö. There have been considerable difficulties due to the identification checks, as has also been mentioned here in the debate. So far they have not felt involved in this process. I think it is very positive that the government has announced this and that, based on this, we can take the step further and see if we are now in phase and whether we can avoid having further ID checks in November when it will be time for the next decision. It is important to make an overall assessment. It has been called for in the debate what else to do. Well, the government has also appointed an investigator to find alternatives to the roads into Sweden and the EU, namely legal roads. We cannot, of course, be satisfied with the situation we have today with regard to the flow of refugees, but we must actively look for other systems. We're not happy. We cannot be satisfied with the tragedies that occur every day in the Mediterranean, but we must see what other options there may be. This cannot only be resolved in Brussels, but we must take responsibility here too. But the important thing today is that we take responsibility for the current situation. The withdrawal period has proved to be an obstacle in the system. We propose that the House decide to remove the withdrawal period, and the government has announced that the system will be reviewed. I support the proposal in the report.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-348	Madam President, I would like Mats Pertoft gave two arguments for the withdrawal period, both equally strange. The first argument he put forward was that it was a temporary law and therefore needed a withdrawal period. Now that we're taking away the withdrawal period, it's still a temporary law. What then changes the withdrawal period? In addition, Mats Pertoft: If you did not want the government to just go for it, why did you give it three years? Why didn't you give it six months, as M, KD and L suggested, if this was so important? This argument doesn't hold. The second argument you put forward for the withdrawal period was an evaluation. Again: Why is the withdrawal period needed for an evaluation? You are now taking away the withdrawal period. The withdrawal period was needed for an evaluation– that was one of the reasons why it was introduced, you said. So you're saying the government can't evaluate the withdrawal period this fall? Reasonably, it shouldn't be able to do that, because we're taking away the withdrawal time, as you said was needed for an evaluation. Answer those two questions, please!
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-351	Madam President, I would like I'll try to answer Kent Ekeroth's questions as best I can. However, I think I have already heard a number of answers to his questions in this House, so I do not know if it is possible to answer them so that he understands. But I'll do my best! This is something that my colleague, Helene Petersson, raised several times, namely the principle of proportionality. The principle of proportionality also applies to the relationship between the power of parliament and the government. When the law was written, the assessment in the preparation was quite broad that there was a need for a break that made the gap visible between the six months. Then there was an evaluation, which was also mentioned by the Minister in committee. Now we find other forms of this. It is still a proportionality between Parliament and the government, including in the proposal we are discussing today. There is proportionality and cooperation, which is also why we can now jointly take this decision in this House. It is not just one party that proposes it, but we have a broad cross-block majority behind the proposal. I think I answered the questions. But I can see from Kent Ekeroth that he's not happy.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-355	Madam President, I would like Everyone who now listened to Mats Pertoft listened to a genuine political response. He tried to babble away the questions by going into something else, namely something about the principle of proportionality that he just heard from his colleague. Then he said something else fun too: Now other forms are found to do this evaluation. But the questions were not answered. Please answer! I'm just gonna ask you a question now to make it really easy. Mats Pertoft said in his speech that the withdrawal period was needed for an evaluation. It is possible to replay the speech in case you forget about it. If the withdrawal period of two weeks was needed for an evaluation and we are now removing the withdrawal period, does Mats Pertoft mean that no evaluation can be made? That should be the only logical conclusion of what he himself said. Now that I am handing over the question for Mats Pertoft's final reply, I can almost put money into saying that we will hear a new political response.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-359	Madam President, I would like You can philosophize about what is a real politician's answer. I see Kent Ekeroth's entire series of debates today as pure political vagaries from beginning to end, ideologically strongly marked by a single picture of reality: SD is right, all other errors. What we are trying to do from the government side and in this broad party cooperation in committee is to take into account the reality, listen to the authorities and see how we are going to solve this problem, about which the police and the Migration Board have informed us, while keeping up-to-date the proportionality between the parliament and government and getting a good evaluation. It's taking care of reality. What I see Kent Ekeroth has now been doing for about an hour and a half in this House is ideologically blindly driving his line without taking into account the reality at all.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-361	Madam President, I would like It is very exciting to listen to the critics of this proposal, which is about revoking Section 6 about withdrawal time in this legislation. In our well-thought-out bill, which we ourselves produced in December, we did not have anything concrete about the withdrawal period because we had advocated a system whereby the government would make active decisions on ID controls every month, not least in southern Sweden. It sounds to the critics like they have other solutions. The Left Party was ashamed of the entire EU project. I do not share that view on the part of the Liberals. It is a concrete example of why we should actively go into the core of European cooperation and work together. Otherwise, all the talk and rhetoric about legal ways, kvo displaced persons, distribution policies etc. will just be rhetoric. We need to work together and we need to sit around a common table and talk to the other Member States. Otherwise, there'll be nothing. Madam President, I would like The committee has a lot to do with migration policy, although we are not really working on migration policy. We work with law and order. The critics – those who have voted against internal border controls and ID controls and now also vote against the removal of withdrawal periods – may actually explain to me whether they believe that we have law and order and control over the situation in Sweden. One week we cannot stand by and tell the police about suburbs and stones and say that we should strengthen the police force and then come here and say: we do not need internal border controls, we do not need ID checks and we do not need a withdrawal period. That logic and mathematics don't make sense. Together with some colleagues in the Committee on Justice, I have visited the Malmö Police and the Border Police. I've also been out at Lernacken looking at the border control. I'm a little scared of the dark. Sweden has no effective border control. We have no systematic border control. We do not know who passes and enters and what their purposes are when they enter our Kingdom. From the Liberals, this has been a very difficult issue. We are strong supporters of the European Union. We want Sweden to take joint and several responsibility. Sweden has relatively taken the most refugees in Europe. I am proud of that, Madam President. But that policy must also be linked to responsibility. When we visit police regions, no matter what, they talk about challenges. It's about asylum homes and asylum fires. They do not exaggerate, but they still want to bring to our attention in the committee responsible that it is a challenge and a strain. While we have a new police organisation, there have been increased terrorist threats and flows of refugees. The police department is alerting, but it's not exaggerating. They bring things forward because they want to draw our attention to it, make us listen and do something about the situation. The proposal is fully in line with what has been said by the so-called expert authorities. It's the Migration Agency, the Police Authority, and not least the Border Guard. We have heard that they have not lived up to the mission as border police, but it has been caretaker. It has been about solidarity, to receive and arrange the practical, to arrange accommodation, water, food, school and preschool. The Swedish police have done an amazing job. But there is a limit to what they can do right now through the capacity and police management they have. In fact, I think that all of us politicians in this House have a responsibility to see this and help. It is not the government's proposal for change. It is the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal to supplement and amend the law, and in which we pointed out the lack of legislation as early as December. It's a way to help as long as the reception has kept this high level. Now there is a dramatic drop in the reception of refugees. But the people we have received will also be responsible for. They must have municipal placement, housing, preschool places, health care and more. Our authorities have been saying for a few months: we cannot do this. Then it is – excuse the expression, Madam President – our damned duty to do something about the situation. People should be welcome to Sweden. But we have to keep an eye on who's coming. We cannot have 2 000 – 3 000 young people on the run, 400 in Stockholm, a few hundred in Gothenburg and then split up who commit crimes and don't tell us why they are in Sweden. That's why we're supposed to have the law, and that's why we're going to take away the withdrawal period in order to maintain law and order.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-375	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad said that they pointed to the withdrawal period as early as December 17th. It was because you wanted a 30-day period instead of a six-month period. No wonder you don't want two weeks off every time after four weeks. But your proposal was worse. That would mean that the law would disappear in 13 days. I wonder a little: if the Liberals could decide, would you like to remove the law in 13 days' time? I and the Swedish people would like to hear this right now. Is it still your belief that the law should be removed, and that if you were to decide, it will be removed in 13 days? That's my only question.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-378	Madam President, I would like The simple and short answer is no. We have called for a different approach to legislation. We said that we voted against the construction of broken up families with children, which was also in the package. We have voted against this. We have said that we want socio-economic follow-up. We haven't got that through. We wanted 30-day decisions. It could be reconsidered. There is no end time, but it depends on whether it is needed. Pending this, we demanded that the government revise a proposal and come back to Parliament. Obviously, the government has not. That is why we believe that the proposal is absolutely correct.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-381	Madam President, I would like In the same reservation you had with the Moderates, you write that it is because of the far-reaching possibilities that the government has that you want the law to end on June 21st. It was not any other justification that you pointed out. It is true that the Liberals are liberal when it comes to immigration policy. That is why you want liberalisation, even if the legislation you are talking about is not to divide families with children, 30-day decisions or first to abolish the law. The socio-economic consequences of the withdrawal period are also quite interesting. The Center Party has said that it costs 3 million a day. That is about the cost of four so-called unaccompanied minors each year. We got 35,000 last year. That's 21 billion. If the figure of 3 million a day is correct, it is 1 billion a year compared to 21 billion. The socio-economic benefit is if we close the border on immigration altogether. Until 2018, we have costs for the Migration Agency alone of approximately 173 billion. It now has a bigger budget than the defence. The debate on the socio-economic consequences died more or less recently. Even in the public discussion it is said that immigration does not benefit. To close the borders and make sure that they do not come here is of course a big plus for Sweden. Maybe that's the question I'm least worried about. What I'm most concerned about is the attitude. You're supposed to get rid of the law. Then they claim that they wanted the government to come back. It's a very interesting way of doing things. You take away the law and hope that something better comes. But they really want it removed because they think it is too far-reaching measures and too far-reaching powers for the government. It is quite fascinating that Roger Haddad stands here and sounds angry with the government when they themselves had a proposal that was actually more liberal than what the government put forward.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-387	Madam President, I would like Although this is not a matter of substance, I would like to say that I am proud of Sweden's migration policy. I do not share the view that migration does not contribute to our society. I live in Västerås myself. Västerås has developed dramatically from the 1940s onwards, not least thanks to immigration from Italy and Yugoslavia. I'm proud of it. I do not understand why the Swedish Democrats and Kent Ekeroth sound so aggressive and negative. It is because we happen to take the same position that the decision can be taken today. There has been no parliamentary support for such a proposal until now. The question of why this is the case must reasonably be addressed primarily to the government parties.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-389	Madam President, I would like You speak so very nicely about Europe and Europe in your speech, Roger Haddad. I know the Liberals are incredibly big European friends. Your electoral slogan in the European elections was: Yes to Europe. It is true that the EU is doing very well, but not when it comes to the refugee crisis. Instead, what the EU is doing is preventing all legal ways into Europe. There are 2,500 people dying on the Mediterranean every year. Is that a yes to Europe? There are more passports and more controls. Freedom of movement is almost gone right now in the EU. Is that a yes to Europe? How, in fact, can the EU solve the problem of the incredibly large influx of refugees with people who want to save their lives? Europe does not have that solution today. How are Liberals going to solve Europe's problems with all refugees who desperately need help that does not reduce the freedom of the individual, which is taking place today, which does not affect businesses economically? How will the Liberals sew a yes to Europe with a humane asylum policy?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-392	Madam President, I would like We have my liberal colleagues in the European Parliament, Cecilia Malmström in the Commission, and we had our ministers in the Alliance Government, not least EU Minister Birgitta Ohlsson. They have actively pursued these issues. I hope Linda Snecker has followed this in the last few years. Liberals are absolutely convinced that Sweden will cooperate with Europe. Without Europe, there will be no legal routes and no quota allocations. We have also been almost aggressive towards those states which do not respect human rights, which do not want to contribute. They shall be sanctioned and punished in the EU system. That is what we have worked for – even a redistribution mechanism in European cooperation. It is not true that the Liberals do not believe in the concept. I can ask the Left Party: If Sweden was not a member of the European Union, how would the Left want to resolve the acute and difficult situation? Then there was the question of law and order. Yes, there should be registration and control, but you always have the right to seek asylum, in that concept, in European cooperation and in the European Union. There are no contradictions in that policy.
i-VhECHQi5erUDFFPZWE4F9J	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for your answer! I would also like to believe in the European Union if it were not the case that the whole EU project is currently going down economically and in the law of asylum. I thought I'd go back to Sweden. Roger Haddad even talked about the police. Both Roger Haddad and I know that the police are doing an incredible amount of good work. He's talking about asylum homes burning and what's hit the police hard. But let us know that it is a heated xenophobic debate that causes asylum homes to burn. The solution to this problem is not to introduce more ID checks, but the solution is to actually give the police the opportunity to do an even better job. That is why I would also like to ask the question that Johan Hedin of the Center Party raised in his speech: What can the police do instead? There's an incredible amount of fraud and sex crimes. The Alliance parties usually talk about house invasions as a major problem. All that could be done by the police, but instead the Liberals want to decide that the police should work with more checks on people. It is controls that restrict people's freedom of movement. The identification checks that Parliament will unfortunately decide on today do not provide the police with better resources to investigate everyday crimes. How are we going to solve that problem?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-399	Madam President, I would like The Left Party did not answer my question about how to resolve the large refugee situation if Sweden were to be outside European membership. But I'm sure we'll get back to that question. Liberals are firmly convinced that Sweden will act actively in the EU to resolve the issue. The police have no time for either one or the other today. This is a much bigger problem than receiving refugees or carrying out identity checks. The special event – as it was called – has been closed by the National Operations Department and has returned to a traditional line organisation. Regardless of these issues, the Swedish police are facing a huge challenge. Regardless of the reception of refugees and the identity checks, the police do not have time for identity fraud, identity checks and so-called everyday crimes. It's a very big social problem. It is the Left Party as a support party to the government that has the ultimate responsibility to change the situation.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-402	Madam President, I would like If there are any new viewers, we are debating today some of the authorization given to the government that allows the government to introduce identity checks in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country, that is, the removal of the so-called two-week scheme. That is the main point I intend to make in my speech. The Christian Democrats' proposal for design was different from the beginning. We did not propose a two-week term when the matter was debated in Parliament. Instead, we proposed a temporary law that would be in force for six months where the government would decide on renewed ID checks month by month and that the government would be allowed to return to Parliament if the need for ID checks remained after six months when a new bill would be presented. We tabled this proposal together with the Moderates and Liberals in view of the criticism that existed against the preparation of the proposal. We thought it was a more reasonable approach to have ID checks for six months and not to have a withdrawal before decisions on ID checks could be renewed. We Christian Democrats believe that continuous reconciliation is important and that the government regularly evaluates the impact of the ID controls. This is also stated in the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. We welcome it, and we support the removal of the two-week army. When introducing ID controls, the Christian Democrats agreed with the government that the government should be able to introduce ID controls in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country – given the very strained situation. However, we criticised the preparation of the bill, which both the Law Council and the majority of referrals also did. The current situation in the area of migration is difficult and requires both rapid and comprehensive action, but it must not be a reason for negligence in the legislative process. With regard to the issue we are debating today, the withdrawal of the rapporteur, the vast majority of referrals have supported or had no objection to the proposal. Of course, the risk of having an unsustainable situation in the middle of the holiday season for two strained authorities such as the Migration Agency and the Police Authority needs to be taken into account. In preparing the bill, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has stated that great account must be taken of the concerns expressed about the risk of human traffickers and others adapting their activities after the withdrawal period. Several consultation bodies have also expressed concerns about the impact of two weeks of withdrawal on the number of asylum seekers, disturbances for travellers in the Öresund region and pressures on the police. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that the government should be able to introduce ID controls in the event of a serious danger or for national security, but we would like to stress the importance of the government continuously monitoring the effects of the specific measures and assessing whether they are appropriate, necessary and proportionate to the purpose to be achieved. I expect the government to return to Parliament with such an evaluation. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-409	Madam President, I would like The subject as such is a good talk by previous speakers. My focus will be on another part. We have also heard from previous colleagues' speeches that the majority of asylum seekers who apply to Sweden come from Denmark and Germany via the ports of Ystad, Trelleborg, Helsingborg and not least via the Öresund Bridge. Their first stop to Sweden is Skåne, from which I come. The pressures that the municipality of Trelleborg and the City of Malmö, as well as the Southern Police area, were subjected to due to the high influx of asylum seekers in 2015 should not be underestimated. The situation at the time was unsustainable. For this reason, for example, the Moderates supported the proposal to introduce both border controls and ID controls. Sweden must have control over the influx of asylum seekers as well as control over who enters our country. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, the government included in its proposal on ID controls a withdrawal period of two weeks before a new government decision on further controls could be taken. We in the Moderates then pointed out the unfortunate fact that this withdrawal period existed and would be introduced in the middle of the summer of this year – a time when the flow of refugees was expected to be at its highest. I welcome the fact that the government parties have now changed their minds and that we have been able to get this proposal through which we are going to vote today. Madam President, I would like I believe that the introduction of ID and border controls was necessary. The withdrawal period was a misthinking from the beginning, as has been said earlier. We had to get the situation under control. Otherwise, we risked a breakdown in our welfare system. I say this not only as a Member of Parliament but also as a resident in the Öresund region. However, what should be mentioned in this context – some of which have been involved, but which are not mentioned often enough – is the impact of ID checks and border controls on the Öresund region. Almost 4 million people live in the area at Öresund. Every day, almost 20 000 people commute across Öresund, between Denmark and Sweden, to and from their jobs. The largest airport in the Nordic region, Copenhagen's air sea Kastrup, is located right on the Öresund Bridge. Many people use this airport, both in their work and in their private lives. Suppose that if it had been necessary to introduce ID controls in Stockholm, a border would have been established between Stockholm's inner city and Nacka, for example. Then you can imagine what it would have looked like. Controls affect anyone who travels across Sundet. I fully understand that the controls should exist and that we should not have any withdrawal period that risks causing chaos similar to what occurred in autumn 2015. Nevertheless, the government cannot simply sit back on the fact that the controls are now in place and the risk of a withdrawal period is eliminated. It is also necessary to analyse, evaluate and improve controls so that they have the least possible impact on commuters who are going to work in Denmark or Sweden. Talks must be held with the Danish Government on, for example, the possibility of bringing together the ID and border controls into a check at Kastrup airport. Today, commuters have to stop at Kastrup for ID control and another stop at Hyllie in Sweden for border control. Coordination that can lead to improvement would be most welcome. Today, we can also read in the newspapers that police area South, which has been responsible for large parts of the costs of refugee flows, has problems with its staffing since the completion of national efforts. Madam President, I would like Finally, it should be mentioned that border controls and ID controls and the issue of withdrawal periods may or may not be important, but even more important is the work and challenges we now face in taking care of the people who have come to Sweden. This responsibility now falls largely to Sweden's municipalities and county councils, and the costs of this management are high. The state must assume its responsibilities here and ensure that the payment of compensation to the municipalities is done in the right time and in the right order. Only the Scanian municipalities have estimated that they are waiting for SEK 1.5 billion that has not been paid by the Migration Agency. These are too big a challenge for municipalities that will be able to cope with schooling and care for the elderly with municipal money. If the money is not paid at the right time, there may be a crisis in the cashier. Madam President, I would like It is good that the government understands the seriousness of the refugee flows to Sweden and has taken measures and that we are now removing the withdrawal period for ID controls. However, let us not be led to believe that the times of the challenges are over. Rather, they have only just begun. The responsibility for dealing with this rests heavily on the government's shoulders as well as the responsibility for ensuring that the least possible intervention takes place in the Öresund region, which is an important region where one is in great need of being able to move across the strait to and from one's work. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-426	Madam President, I would like I was going to talk a little about humor, not because the seriousness of the situation with the necessary border controls is particularly amusing, but it is the handling of the proposed bill that cannot be regarded as anything but just as humor. Here in the Riksdag are the people's main representatives represented by various parties. We are appointed to protect the interests of our people and our country. I think this calls for a certain degree of seriousness in which one can make demands on how individual Members and parties act. Of these parties, there is one that almost always stands out by being the first on the ball, at least on politically heavy issues where immigration policy is a clear example. The Swedish Democrats say seemingly obvious things that are almost always met with opposition from other parties. Then reality comes true. Policy areas develop into major crises. There is still only the political solution that the Swedish Democrats have been proposing all along. The proposals of the Swedish Democrats will then be packaged. A new label and a new party symbol are put on, and you pretend that you have never had a different political opinion, that you have never had a responsibility for the developed crisis that has arisen under your political influence. Just like this, the case has been through the withdrawal period in the ID-checking law. The Swedish Democrats have never wanted a break in two weeks when our borders will once again be open to new mass immigration. That was something that the rest of you saw as a necessity in connection with the introduction of temporary border controls. The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly highlighted the problem of the withdrawal period and tried to get the others to take action to remove it. You then claimed that you trusted that the government had the situation under control, so you did not see any reason to remove the withdrawal period. You referred to the fact that other measures could be taken to meet increasing migratory pressure without specifying exactly what you were referring to. Madam President, I would like But just a week after the Swedish Democrats highlighted the proposal to remove the withdrawal period something happened. Then you highlighted the very same proposal that you had argued and voted against only a week earlier. When I asked what new information was on the table that led you to go from a sharp no to a sudden yes in just a week, we were told that it was a composite picture that had changed your mind. The only thing that had changed in that week was that the sender of the proposal was no longer the Swedish Democrats. You understood that the proposal of the Swedish Democrats was a self-evident necessity in order not to risk uncontrolled immigration during these two weeks, but pride was too deep inside you for you to vote for the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. You chose to vote it down and then copy it and then introduce it as your own. Madam President, I would like This is the sense of humor. In the aftermath, then, the Moderates are trying to really claim that the proposal is a moderate line that has now had an impact in negotiations with the government, despite the fact that the moderate line has previously been to remove this law from June 21st. When I talk to people and tell them how this has happened, they think I'm kidding. But everything is recorded. It's free for anyone to review. This is exactly how it happened. In conclusion, we can only say to you in other parties who have finally taken your responsibility on this issue that perhaps it would be better-looking if you had shown the political backbone and voted with the Swedish Democrats' proposals from the beginning. Although we are amused a little bit by your anxiety-charged behaviour, one might think that elected representatives in the Swedish Parliament should manage their trust in a slightly more dignified way than this. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats continue to support the Swedish Democrats' proposals, which have been copied and repackaged in such a way that it could be presented here today as the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-440	Madam President, I would like It can be repeated: you are making up the Swedish Democrats. It was not that we advocated withdrawal time in our original proposal. It has been described several times what our proposal looked like, and it is important to be clear about it. As simple as voting for a Swedish Democratic initiative, which you make it sound like, it is not. You can choose to vote for anything and have a strong reservation, but for me it is important to work to ensure that the division of responsibilities works and that a broad majority is achieved on an important issue. It's not humor. It is a political craft that seeks to achieve results in something that is important. What frightened me a little bit in what we saw before us was that traffickers and others could take advantage of the situation in the construction that the regulations had been given. We needed to change that. Therefore, it was important to work to find out if the government intended to do something, if you thought it was time, that you had the right information and so on. Then it turned out that the bill stop came. We made it clear that we can do something and worked in a rather constructive way to sort out the problem. Don't talk about humor! You have very sore toes, but it is not that the Swedish Democrats are the center of the earth. In a parliamentary context, efforts must be made to obtain majorities and include as many as possible. Then you have to be able to listen and take it in and start from reality here and now – not stand by what someone said five months ago or what it looked like then, but see what needs to be done here and now. That is why I think the committee has made a good proposal today.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-444	Madam President, I would like It is worth repeating: the political view of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Liberals on this issue has until two or three weeks ago been that this law should cease. Then, together with the government parties, you chose to highlight the issue of removing the withdrawal period. Until that date, you have not had a different political view because you have actively voted against the committee initiatives that the Swedish Democrats have raised on this issue. Then you have taken a stand on the political issue and shown your colours. On two occasions in the spring, you voted against the withdrawal of the withdrawal period in the Committee on Justice. When you changed your mind, it was you who tabled the proposal. Do not say that you can get out of this with credibility when you change political opinion in a week and say that it is the overall picture that has changed the situation! The only thing that changed that week was that you were given the opportunity to raise the initiative with your own party name on the committee initiative. It's pretty obvious. It can be examined, and I think it has been very clear on this issue. What strengthens my conviction in this – it is in itself not a conviction but a self-evident – is that you are saying that there should be a broad majority for this proposal, that it is important to bring together a broad majority. But it is quite clear that the Swedish Democrats have already tabled this proposal twice. Yet the Swedish Democrats are not contacted to create an even wider majority for the proposal. There the fear of touch shines through so clearly that it becomes only embarrassing. Let me once again call it a sense of humor.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-447	Madam President, I would like I have no fear of touch, and I certainly do not have any prestige in this matter. But I take the right to know what I stand for myself and what opinion we had when we originally dealt with the issue. I don't know. I'm preoccupied with Swedish-democratic conspiracy theories that we thought something completely different. You read protocols like some people read... writings of various kinds. I'm not going to give you examples. It's hopeless. We have described our proposal. We have had the debate. I have also held interpellation debates on the withdrawal period. I have discussed this with several ministers, and for months I have discussed it with comrades. I'm very clear and confident in what we've thought. But then it's about doing something in reality. Then it is the way that reality has given us an S-MP government with the support of the Left Party that actually has to assume its responsibilities. I am not going to take that away from them until we have a choice, but I am going to make sure that they take their responsibilities and try out the rules that exist and do not do a lot of mischmash here. Politics must be more than placards. Politics must be more than getting cool reservations or being clubbed down. Politics must be trying to find a position that holds true, and so I will continue to work. Don't lie about what the Moderates have stood for! Don't say we're doing some kind of game show here! It is actually a question of changing reality and solving problems. Today, Parliament has the opportunity to do this on a small matter, and I think that is very good.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-453	Madam President, I would like I note that the government parties applaud the Moderates' speech. Might be worth taking with you. That also says something about the whole situation here. Alliance parties say they wait and see if the government accepts its responsibility. If it does not, if it does not take responsibility, they are not prepared to do anything on the part of the opposition to change it. What has happened throughout the spring means that every person, every politician – you don't even have to be a politician – must have the ability to analyse and see that the withdrawal period is a problem. When there comes a suggestion on the table to remove it, you have to confess color. That's how it works. But apparently the Moderates and the other alliance parties have not acted on this issue – with the exception of the Center, which has had a clear position on the matter. You voted against the proposal to remove the withdrawal period until the government showed colour. It shows that the bourgeois opposition parties are not prepared to put the necessary pressure to actually change the situation in Sweden and to remove the withdrawal period if the government does not want to do so on its own. I think that is a weak position in opposition, to be honest.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-457	Madam President, I would like I also felt compelled to get up after Adam Marttinen's speech. It's a little fun when someone tells you what you really think and also does it wrong. I feel some little pressure to get up and tell them that this is what we think. With regard to the proposal on ID controls, I stood in the speaker's seat and told him what a huge hafsreft the whole bill on ID checks was. I was entirely in favour of having ID checks, but the way in which the proposal came out was under any criticism. I have also said so in the speaker's chair. The referral bodies hardly got any time to read the proposal or make their input on what they thought was good and bad about the proposal and so on. It also led to criticism from us in the Moderates of the proposal regarding the withdrawal periods. We thought it was completely strange to have two weeks off in the middle of high pressure in the summer of this year. Basically, our whole criticism of how the proposal came forward was also based on our criticism. Nothing in the proposal was clear. Why not? Because obviously there was no time for the government to do this. Where were the evaluations? Where was the referral? What had we done with questions about compensation to transport companies? How would the controls be carried out? What would we do if one of the controllers broke it? There were thousands of questions. This made us, although we thought the idea was good and that it was good to introduce ID controls, very critical of the content of the bill and how it had been thought. The same applies to withdrawal periods.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-461	Madam President, I would like If the Moderates have seen it as a problem that there will be a withdrawal period of two weeks this summer, I do not understand why they originally wanted the law to end in mid-June and thus not exist at all. It's a pretty weird attitude, I think. But it also sounds like a pretty good post-construction. Let me call it a conspiracy theory, but I leave it to the electorate to decide. If we are to be completely honest, it has always been like this in Parliament. Migration policy has been a subject that no party has wanted to discuss from a critical point of view. It has also been the prerequisite for us having reached this crisis in Sweden and had this asylum pressure precisely against Sweden. No other party wanted a critical attitude to this until the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag and created an opposition voice and a political pressure on the issue which means that no one can subsequently say: Yes, but we did not understand. We were naive. Then the Swedish Democrats have been there as a political opposition and made sure that there has been an awareness of these issues and that there has been a political alternative. We have done the same in the spring. We have shown pressure on this issue. We have shown that there is a political alternative, and because of that you have become so frightened that you have now crept to the cross and copied the proposals of the Swedish Democrats in order not to be able to say afterwards that you were naive to the fact that the withdrawal period was a problem. That's the truth. That's how it's been done. This is black on white, recorded everywhere, and it is free for anyone to review it.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-465	Madam President, I would like Again, I hear what I and the Moderates think. I don't like it when you tell me that I think something completely different from what I'm saying. It's not the truth congruent, Adam Marttinen. We have been very clear about the need for this legislation. We're gonna have ID checks. Now you want to extend the discussion to dealing with refugee policy as a whole. However, I am not going to agree to that, because today is the withdrawal period we are talking about. In this case, we in the Moderates have been in favour of the introduction of ID controls. We haven't wanted the withdrawal period in two weeks. We have also said that the bill must be much better arranged and presented than it was. I do not know whether Adam Marttinen himself felt that the proposal concerning the identity checks was well thought out, balanced and included many impact assessments. Was Adam Marttinen happy with the government's proposal? I was not satisfied with how the proposal had been drawn up. The bottom line of it, that we should have ID checks and control on who enters the country, was good, but otherwise the proposal left much else to be desired. Was Adam Marttinen satisfied with the government's proposal to introduce the ID controls? Was it not right for the Moderates' objections that the proposal was a hasty act and that the legislation that was put forward should be reviewed in haste? Would it not have been wise to take on board more evaluations and assessments on how to make the law better, so that it does not – in order to relate to my speech – affect, for example, the Öresund region to the extent that has been the case?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-469	Madam President, I would like I don't think you'll ever be happy as an opposition party. The whole work of the government can be said to have been carried out. However, we believe that the government's proposal was far better than your proposal from the Moderates, when you proposed that the law should cease and thus we would open the borders to more mass immigration. Today we are discussing what the Swedish Democrats have been asking for throughout the spring, namely that we should remove the withdrawal period of two weeks. Perhaps I should not stand here and tell you what you in the Moderates think, but I will definitely tell you what you have done in the spring and how you have voted on various proposals. Perhaps you have always thought that the withdrawal period has been a major problem that should be voted out, although you have voted the other way around. In fact, you have not voted to remove it. Now we are told that it is because you visited the police in Malmö in the latter part of April and that you have then got a different picture of the situation. This says something about the Alliance's, or rather the Alliance's minus Center Party's, analytical ability. There is certainly a red thread back to your reign. You lack an analytical ability that allows you to do things in good time. Now it's a little late. We should have been able to do this a long time ago. It was obvious that the withdrawal period was a problem. We made proposals to remove it repeatedly. You voted against. You needed more time to create the analytical ability that we have had all along. You might think that's a little troubling, but I guess it'll have to stand for you.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-475	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 in the report to be approved. We in the Swedish Democrats welcome the government's proposal on whistleblowers because we believe it is a very topical area today. On the whole, we think the proposal is a good one, but there are some areas where we have points of view and think that we could have investigated the matter a little deeper and examined it harder. We want to see greater protection for the whistleblower's identity in both public and private activities. Today, there is a legal absolute secrecy in the notification of shortcomings in health and safety at work or of infringements in the financial sector, whereas, unfortunately, equivalent protection does not apply in other areas and activities. We believe that protection should be equal regardless of whether you work as an administrator at, for example, the Migration Agency, where today we see major problems, or in the financial sector. Many heavy-duty bodies and researchers believe that the proposal for protection is weak and inadequate and can eventually lead to a quieter society in which whistleblowers simply do not dare to report for fear of reprisals from their employers. One of the speakers on this issue is Claes Sandgren, Professor of Civil Law and former Chairman of the Institute against Offences. He believes that in many cases protection is insufficient because it means that it is possible to obtain compensation only once reprisals have been taken against employees. That is the wrong order of priorities, we think. We believe that the focus should be on ensuring that one's identity is protected in an equivalent way regardless of the area. Then the employer cannot immediately take reprisals against the whistleblower. Even from a trade union point of view, like the Swedish Democrats, the proposal does not go far enough. Saco's reference group and its chief lawyer believe that far too little has been done and that the law focuses too much on the concept of very serious maladministration. This places unnecessary knowledge requirements on the individual employee, who is allowed to assume the level if it is to be considered worthwhile to report with a risk of reprisals. The risk is that, as an individual, you will refrain from alarming. You don't know what's going to happen or what reprisals might come. This can make the law toothless, not least from the perspective that it can be difficult for the employee to see whether the malpractice is really serious or not. That is why it is important that we have equal protection for all whistleblowers, and that should apply regardless of the industry or area. Madam President, I would like We also believe that it is necessary to clarify more clearly where the limit is when it comes to whistleblowers and jobs with professional secrecy. In the referral we could see that the Swedish Armed Forces in particular saw problems with the interpretation of the law and demanded clearer guidelines. This is important in order to avoid that the law is misused and used as a means of revealing defence and trade secrets. In this respect, we believe that a thorough in-depth dive and a clearer analysis of how to set the limits should be carried out. Otherwise, we think it is a good proposal that is welcome.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-482	Madam President, I would like Are you a hero or a traitor if you notice that your employer is breaking the law or misbehaving? It is a question that countless workers are forced to ask themselves daily, and then most almost always conclude that it is probably better to keep quiet than to alert. There is still no protection for workers who sound the alarm of abuse at their workplace. Today, instead, a number of different legal provisions are applied from different areas. The situation is both difficult to understand and complex. And it is at all times the individual worker, who may be affected by the misdemeanours and, on the one hand, paid attention to them, who is taking the fall. I've seen examples of most things. Workers who do not care for their employers are subject to everything from clear illegal dismissals or dismissals to relocations, impairments or long-term bullying and harassment as a consequence of what they have done. It is, of course, unsustainable for this to happen, because the last thing the Swedish labour market needs is really bad employers, or really bad workplaces, for that matter. It is important to strengthen the protection of workers who sound the alarm about abuse in the workplace. In a tight working life, it is important that all workers can and dare to sound the alarm without risking reprisals from their employers. There is also a strong public interest in this. Workers' alarms can provide insight into socially harmful phenomena such as corruption, environmental pollution, market abuse and neglect. However, if you want a functioning whistleblowing system, the balance of power in the labour market should be clear as a starting point. It is already uneven – to the advantage of employers. Today, when an employee stands alone against his employer, it is, to describe it a little more figuratively, much like a clubless golfer standing in a boxing match, against a heavyweight boxer. It is therefore necessary, as everyone will understand after that metaphor, to add some special means to level the odds. Studies show that workers who come to know about irregularities in the workplace today often refrain from sounding the alarm. Fear of retaliation from the employer, uncertainty about what protection you have and uncertainty about how the employee should proceed or who to turn to are some of the reasons. And then there's this whole boxing game thing. In other words, there is a great need for special protection legislation for workers. It is also important that such a signal signals that it is both legal and desirable for workers to sound the alarm of irregularities on the part of employers. It is good that such a bill comes now. But we, like several consultation bodies, have a number of objections. Firstly, the bill is complicated and difficult to understand. The proposed provisions of the law are vague. In doing so, the law will be difficult to apply to those in whom it is intended to protect, that is to say, workers. In addition, it is seen as hard to understand also for trade union representatives and employers. It will simply be difficult to use the law in practice. And that's a terrible sin. Secondly, protection is proposed only for alarms of serious maladministration. We in the Left Party as well as LO and TCO think that this is too restrictive. The rib is too high. It will create uncertainty. What does the concept of serious maladministration involve? It is left to individual workers on the floor to decide. And it won't work. In the choice between alerting and risking reprisals from the employer, employees will always choose not to alert. This is already the situation of power. The new law may therefore, unfortunately, be counterproductive. Thirdly, the legislative proposal is inadequate. The State investigation prior to the Government's proposal contained a three-part proposal on: Indemnities for workers affected by reprisals after sounding the alarm 中 obligation for employers to maintain internal systems or to take other measures to facilitate alarms protection of the identity of the worker, or whistleblower, in both public and private activities; For some reason, the government has chosen only to bring forward the first part, namely the right to compensation from the employer. This makes the legislative proposal, unfortunately, inadequate. So the proposal – however good the intention may be – is too weak to be able to provide general protection for whistleblowers. It should be reworked in order to achieve the objective. It's important. It is important that legislation that can be applied directly by individual workers or local trade unions is clear and, not least, sharp. Some of the changes that we in the Left Party want to see are the fact that the concept of serious maladministration is changed into mere maladministration. We also believe that workers who sound the alarm should be equally protected, whether public or private. We also think that the government should listen to and take on board what most consultation bodies have pointed out that other groups should also be covered by the protection. This applies, for example, to contractors, participants in labour market policy measures and those participating in traineeships or other skills-enhancing activities under the Social Services Act. Everyone present at a single workplace should of course be covered by the same protection. I therefore call for the approval of reservation 3 and hope that we will soon be able to hear much-needed whistles from the workplace.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-498	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 1 to be approved. We are now discussing the report on the protection of whistleblowers. An employer should not be able to punish an employee, for example by redeployment or anything else, for having alerted the media about irregularities in the workplace. The trick at the law firm in Panama, corruption in the city of Gothenburg or the manipulation of engines at Volkswagen are examples of things that an employee must be able to sound the alarm about. If an employer acts contrary to its values, code of conduct, environmental policy or the like, there is also a public interest in it. Such whistleblowers should also be protected by the law. This is good. Liberals support this. It was also the Alliance Government that initiated the investigation that has led to the bill that we are now discussing. But the bill goes further than that, Madam President. Even those which are considered to be unethical shall be subject to the law. It does not have to be about something that is illegal or even contrary to the company's guidelines. Then the question is what is unethical. It is not always easy to decide. According to the bill, it is considered to be something that is grossly offensive to a large majority of the public. Several problems arise here. How can you figure out in what situations the law offers protection on this basis? That, of course, is not possible. As a result, it increases legal uncertainty for the employee. The government wants to bring about legislation based on the majority's views on morality, at least in this part, which we are opposed to. This means that the whistleblower law can be applied more easily to an activity if many find it immoral, even if the activity itself complies with the law. There are a number of examples of activities that are legal and regulated, where we have inspections and other things, but which many people in society may probably consider unethical, such as fur trade, halal slaughter, male circumcision or mink rearing. There are a number of different activities that may be controversial and questioned but which Parliament has repeatedly voted not to ban. Both the Government's proposal and the underlying investigation alternate between the use of the concepts The constitutional commentary on page 99 of the bill states under the heading Unethical conditions that there may be a public interest in unethical conditions being revealed. Then it says that a serious unethical situation can constitute serious maladministration in the sense of the law. Then we go back to discussing what is the universal concept of, unethical relationships. This is getting a little messy. But the government itself commutes back and forth between different concepts. It illustrates what is at the root of Liberal criticism, namely that the government cannot clarify what it really wants. You want to have some kind of cat hatch in the law to be able to subsequently let in and approve situations that can not really be described, but where it feels right. That is not the way to legislate, in my opinion. It creates legal uncertainty, for the employee who is not given a reasonable chance to predict what protection the law provides but also for the employer. We are not alone in the criticism. The Bar Association and the Law Council have also been clear about this during the consultation round. We support the criticisms made by the Swedish Law Council and the Swedish Bar Association. Madam President, I would like There is also a European dimension which is a bit troubling. The Council of Europe has recommended that Member States strengthen the protection of whistleblowers. Of course it's good. We want the legislation and we want it to be strong. However, if we draw up legislation in the way that the government and the committee now want to do, it will of course be noted with great interest in other countries. But what is the moral view of the majority differs in different countries. As you would like to see legislation drawn up here, it could be directed at quite different phenomena in other countries. There are, for example, major differences between countries in terms of abortion, LGBT rights and what is ethically acceptable. In a survey of TNS in 2005, only 23% of respondents in Poland said that they agreed very much with the claim that a woman who does not want to have a child should have the right to have an abortion. In the 2010 edition of the European Social Survey, only 28% of respondents in Lithuania agreed that homosexuals should be allowed to live as they wish. Let us imagine, then, a situation in which an entrepreneur in Poland quietly provides financial support to women who need to travel abroad in order to have an abortion or that a company in Lithuania in discreet form is sponsoring the country's hard-pressed LGBT movement. It is then conceivable that a large majority of the public in these countries would consider the behaviour of these companies to be grossly offensive. Should this give the person who reveals, for example, the sponsorship of the LGBT movement the status of whistleblower? I don't think so. This makes the problem visible. The Legislative Council has pointed out that it is associated with considerable difficulties in determining what is grossly offensive to a large majority of the public. The Swedish Bar Association has rejected the fact that the legislation contains general references to ethics and believes that it is neither legally secure nor effective. On the Liberal side, we want legislation not to make general references to the moral perceptions of the majority. We believe that the scope of the law should be objective and that the law should be designed in such a way as to ensure a uniform and legally secure application for both the minority and the majority in a society.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-513	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, with pride that, for the second time in a short time, I am standing in this speaker's chair talking about strengthening workers' rights in Sweden. This is something that the current government has taken seriously. It has been far too many years without such reinforcements in Swedish legislation. Today, we are discussing the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs 11, specifically protecting workers from reprisals of serious ills. This is a bill which, for obvious reasons, is more often referred to as the whistleblower law. The bill has come into existence after an investigation set up by the then bourgeois government. The task of that investigation was precisely to find a way to strengthen the protection of whistleblowers. I am pleased that today we will have a broad majority in favour of the legislative proposal that we are putting forward. The purpose of the Act is to give employees the right to compensation if they are subjected to reprisals by the employer if they have sounded the alarm about workplace misconduct of a more serious nature. No employer should be able to punish the employee who blows the whistle by, for example, redeploying, changing salary conditions or not prolonging fixed-term employment because there have been allegations of maladministration. The legislation also applies to temporary workers and temporary employees, and this is very important given the current labour market situation. One might think that it should be a matter of course that, if you point out serious abuses in the workplace, you should not be punished for that. Today, however, there is no legal protection of its own. It is high time that we in Sweden set up such a law. There has been some protection in other legislation since before. This law is a strengthening of existing protection. As I have said before in several debates in this House, genuine democracy rests on secure citizens. To see and experience serious abuses but to be afraid to expose them because one can be punished for it is not a labour market model that creates secure individuals – quite the contrary. In the current government's desire to strengthen the Swedish model with strong partners in the labour market and with secure individuals at work, this legislation is part of the way to create a better society for all. Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-520	Madam President, I would like Our report, which we are discussing today, is called a special protection against reprisals of workers who sound the alarm of serious abuses. But what does it really mean? In everyday speech, we often say that whistleblowers are calling an alarm about something that is not right at the workplace or at the employer's. When someone violates laws and regulations, the employee has the right to sound the alarm and must be protected in the law against any kind of punishment from the employer. We have all read and heard of such whistleblowers. It is workers who have alerted us about something that has been obviously wrong and who have been in trouble themselves. One of Sweden's most famous whistleblowers is named Anders Ahlmark but was called the prisoner of the lighthouse. He was the one who revealed that the Swedish Maritime Administration was actually responsible for an oil accident in 1977 because of an error on a map. He was then reassigned by his employer to a lighthouse on Öland's southern foundation. Then there was no such legal protection. This seems totally unacceptable to us today. It is obviously in the interests of both the employer and the employee that all harmful phenomena come to light, so that they can be dealt with. However, studies show that many refrain from sounding the alarm because of fear of reprisals. That's not good. What, then, is a repressalie? Yes, it can range from dismissal and dismissal to worsening benefits or exclusion or bullying in the workplace. It is not only employees who are to be covered by the new legislation, but also hired personnel that are to be protected, and that is a good thing. The protection afforded by the constitutions to an employee depends on whether it is a private or public employer. Public employees enjoy far-reaching protection in relation to information published or provided to the media. In the private sector, these rights are not as great. Research may be carried out in public disclosures. The fact is that society has become much less authoritarian over the decades and that citizens' demands for transparency have increased. We think it is a good thing that irregularities are revealed. Today we see it not only as a right but sometimes as an obligation to sound the alarm, a moral obligation. Madam President, I would like The new law means that the employee has the right to raise concrete suspicions of something that may have an impact of such a nature that it has imprisonment on the scale of the sentence. The employer must not then subject the employee to any form of punishment or reprisal. Similarly, there must be special protection for a worker who publishes something or who reports something to an authority or to his trade union organisation. As I said, this should apply to everyone in the workplace. This makes it both clearer and easier to understand for individuals who are considering sounding the alarm. What does the law say, and what are serious irregularities? For example, these may be accounts that are not handled properly. It can be bribery, crime such as serious environmental crimes, a lack of security or very serious discrimination or harassment. One thing that is important to stress is that these irregularities should be committed by a person in a managerial position. Other irregularities of workers are not covered by the law. There must, of course, be justification for the allegations of serious maladministration, and there are also limits to what can be notified. But what is a serious mistake is never completely obvious. As we have already heard from the speaker, there is a discussion that it should be enough just for maladministration. There is also a discussion about who has the right to report and who is to be covered. But we believe, like the government in this case, that it has landed correctly and that it is a reasonable balance. The penalty proposed against employers who violate the retaliatory order is that compensation should be paid to the employee for the loss incurred and for the violation that has been experienced. The Moderates believe that it is a good thing that it will be a stronger protection for everyone in a workplace to actually be able to point out serious shortcomings in the operation. In this way, a better working environment and a more secure staff can also be achieved, which is a good thing. Hopefully, the new legal text will also have a certain preventive purpose, so that more and more people comply with the laws and rules we have and respect people who point out shortcomings. The goal for us Moderates is of course always a really good work environment and a safe and safe workplace for everyone who works there. Here the new law has a role to play. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-536	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Government's proposal for a new law on special protection against reprisals for workers who sound the alarm about serious abuses and the proposal to amend the Public Access and Confidentiality Act. Whistleblowers play an important role in society, and workers often have a special opportunity to detect and denounce irregularities in their activities. Most countries have little or no protection for people who in this way are gossiping to their employer, no matter how serious accusations they make, how much they have on their feet, whether it is for the benefit of society that the information comes out or what happens to those who tell. Many around the world are risking their jobs, security and, in some cases, even their lives to tell, for example, that their employer has released poison into the river or that the police are monitoring ordinary people who are not suspected of crime. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have long had freedom of communication and research bans. That is a good thing, but the worker whose employer has known that he is telling the media, for example, about irregularities at work has had weaker protection. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now proposing to strengthen protection against reprisals for workers who sound the alarm and that this should be done through a new law. The emergence and remedying of abuses is of great value both to society and to individuals. It is of great value to society because it sends signals to companies and authorities that it is impossible to get away with anything. And it is of great value to the individuals by, for example, avoiding workers from being exposed to risks in the working environment and that patients are not subjected to neglect. Madam President, I would like Strengthening protection may have several positive effects, for example by reducing the employer's tendency to take reprisals and by helping to reduce the fear of reprisals by workers considering sounding the alarm. The new law provides special protection for workers with fixed-term employment, among others. Since women are over-represented among temporary workers, the new law can have positive effects in this respect too. The law can therefore have some effect on equality between women and men. As a representative of a feminist party, I think that is particularly good. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-NmFESmYaysvaXA5pf6gLk7	Madam President, I would like The Alliance Government decided on 14 February 2013 to instruct a special investigator to review the protection of workers who sound the alarm about various forms of abuse, irregularity or crime and to propose measures aimed at strengthening protection and creating a clearer regulatory framework. The proposal was submitted to the Government in May 2014 and has now been referred to the Council and has reached a decision. It is important that abuses in companies, organisations and authorities are brought to light. It is important for those who work there, but it is also important in the general interest. Several notifications have led to new laws over the years. The Bofors deal is an example that led to lex Bratt – a law that allows employees to disclose trade secrets that expose crime. Lex Sarah means that anyone who becomes aware of health problems must report them. The proposal for a new law aims to increase the protection of those who report serious maladministration at their workplace. The proposed new law also applies to staff members. Normally, you should call the alarm internally first. In order to then be able to move on and also sound an alarm externally, higher demands are placed on the whistleblower. The employer must have been given the opportunity to reconnect. If the employer has not done so, or if the person to report is the one who caused the inconvenience, you can alert externally directly. The requirement for the whistleblower to be able to obtain the enhanced protection is that it is a serious defect. It must be a crime that has prison on the scale of punishment or comparable. The crime must also have occurred in the employer's activities. However, the whistleblower cannot, on the basis of the new law, at the same time commit violations of, for example, confidentiality.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-549	The right to compensation, which is now being proposed, if the employee is subjected to reprisals by his employer because of the warning of serious irregularities in his business, is an important and welcome addition to the protection that workers otherwise have against reprisals in connection with an alarm act. There is currently no special protection legislation in Swedish law for workers who sound the alarm about abuses. In the case of workers' alerts, therefore, a variety of legal provisions are applied from different legal areas. The areas of Swedish law that are of particular importance for the issue of what protection workers who sound the alarm have are the rules on freedom of expression and protection of informers and the many different rules in labour law that can provide protection for workers who sound the alarm. The basic laws guarantee everyone a freedom of expression and expression which can be restricted only in the manner set out in the constitutions. The protection afforded by the constitutions to an employee who raises the alarm of irregularities by the employer differs depending on whether it is a private or a public employer. But in this law we equate this so that it applies regardless of the employer. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs' report 11.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-552	Madam President, I would like This report addresses the issue of special protection legislation for workers who sound the alarm about abuses in the workplace. We have freedom of print and speech laid down in the Constitution. However, the law that we are now debating is aimed at clarifying what applies specifically in the workplace and what protection the worker should have in case of an alert about maladministration, whether it is a private or a public employer. The current level of protection for civil servants is relatively far-reaching, for example for those who provide information to the media, such as protection against reprisals. Nor can agreements deprive civil servants of this constitutional protection. A private employee, on the other hand, does not enjoy the same protection. The employer then has more scope to take action against an employee who has alerted the workplace about maladministration and can also take research measures. In the proposal we are now going to take a position on, protection against reprisals is being strengthened for workers who sound the alarm about serious abuses. The proposal should be seen as part of a larger framework that provides protection for whistleblowers in working life. This applies to both private and public employees, as well as employers. You can also be hired staff, and then the employer is the hirer. An employee can sound the alarm to the employer but also to someone outside the business. It is also important to stress that serious maladministration is involved in crimes involving prisons on the scale of sentences or thus comparable maladministration. Of course, there must be some kind of clause in order for this not to be abused on the part of the worker. Therefore, the employee should primarily try to sound the alarm internally, but if the employer does nothing, there is the possibility to go externally. Those of you who know labour law know that we still have the principle of loyalty in working life, which means that the employee must try to resolve problems internally by drawing the employer's attention to abuses. But the protection is there if there is reason for the suspicion of serious maladministration to which the alarm relates. If, on the other hand, the employee alerts on matters relating to national security, he or she may be guilty of crime. This also applies on certain other occasions relating to confidentiality, incitement and so on. If an employer violates the restraining order, the employer shall pay compensation to the employee. The damage suffered shall correspond to the loss incurred and the violation caused by the retaliation. Of course we should have legislation that protects workers who are whistleblowers and want to highlight serious abuses. At the same time, it is a balancing process when and how to talk about conditions in a workplace. It is therefore reasonable that this applies to serious abuses. We are all aware of cases that have been highlighted in the media, including in the field of care for the elderly. We all remember the lex Sarah case. It is important that people dare to raise their voices when they see serious abuses in a workplace. I believe that most of us believe that there is a general interest in the fact that employees who pay attention to abuses affecting the elderly, the sick, the disabled – or others who may not be able to make their voice heard – are considered to be in particular need of protection. So, when we now have both private and public-run activities in different areas of society, it should cover all activities. That is why it is a good thing that this legislation comes into being. With that, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-562	Mr President, I would like to We spend a lot of time at work, maybe up to ten thousand days in a working life. More and more people have the chance to work; there have never been so many people in Sweden who have a job as right now. Since we took office, there are 113,000 more. For most people, the job is a very important part of life. That's where we spend a lot of time, and that's where we have friends. That's where we work in the sweat of our face, but that's also where we have fun and do good. It is a very important part, and we often learn a lot at work. I want the Swedish workplaces to be characterised by openness. I want a workplace culture where there is a high ceiling and where workers are afraid and able to take responsibility and own initiatives. That is the purpose of the new law – to make it more transparent in our workplaces and to make more people dare to speak out if they discover things that involve or are suspected of involving serious abuses. I think Jenny Bengtsson said it well: It should be both legal and desirable to publish serious maladministration or suspicion of serious maladministration. That is the purpose of the law. We also say in the law that it does not have to be the employer who commits a crime that has prison on the scale of punishment. Instead, it is enough for this to happen in the employer's business. It may be in the employer's premises, and it may be during working hours. There is a lot going on at work, and everything that happens does not necessarily mean that the employer himself creates serious abuses; it may be someone else at work or in the premises that does. The law also covers this. The government has made some important changes in relation to the proposal that was submitted for referral, but before I go into them I want to say something about what are serious maladministration. It has been said here that it would be difficult to interpret. I don't think so. The term "serious maladministration" means crimes that have a prison sentence or comparable relationship. So it is not generally unethical phenomena that fall within this, but it is similar to crimes that have prisons on the scale of punishment. It could be such a tax offence. This may be such as aggravating tax control. It could be the use of black labor. It can of course be such things as neglect or malpractice that affects patients, students or others who depend on the business. These may be violations of fundamental rights and freedoms. It could be corruption. There may be damage or risk of damage to the environment. There may be damage or risk of damage to life and health. There's a lot of room in this. I sometimes get asked how to know what's in prison on the scale of punishment. I would like to say, however, that we normally assume that everyone in Sweden can comply with the law without necessarily being able to every part of each law clause. It is not unreasonable, therefore, for people to be able to relate to such a rule. To ensure that people are able to get help to make assessments, one of the changes we have made is to make it easy for the employee to get in touch with his trade union organisation to ask for advice. Unlike the proposal in the investigation, we have broadened the possibility of contacting the trade union organisation without it being regarded as going externally – even if the employer is not bound by collective agreements. It will be a very important task for trade union organisations to provide advice in order to assess how to proceed with a particular case. It has been asked in the debate that interpretations of the law should be made. I would just like to remind you that it is not we who interpret the law. I am making proposals on it, and you are the author of it. Then it is the courts who interpret. The Labour Court interprets, for example, and it is today a common task for a trade union organisation to assist, through knowledge of how the Labour Court has interpreted a law in the past, in assessing how to proceed in a case. One example of this is confidentiality. Many employees are covered by different degrees of professional secrecy. When can someone be considered a breach of confidentiality and when not? It is typical of such questions where the Labour Court has a case-law drawn up and which it has to deal with, which becomes an interpretation of the law. That is how it is done; it is the courts that have to interpret the law and you in Parliament that have to make it. Another important change we have made to the proposal in the report is to include temporary agency workers as well. In the original proposal, staff members had this special protection only in relation to their employer, but hopefully the person who is employed at a temporary agency is mostly hired and working in another workplace. It is, of course, where you have that everyday life where you experience things, get transparency and need to be protected by special protection if you sound the alarm about serious abuses. Mr President, I would like to Let me also say something about the confidentiality and protection of the individual's identity when someone sounds the alarm. There we have made a different assessment than the investigation. The investigation suggested that the identity would be protected in private activities if – and only if – the person had followed specific internal alarm procedures. It was also suggested that the specific procedures for internal alarms would only be necessary if the employer considered that there were such risks in the operation. Without these procedures, it would not be possible to protect one's identity. This could be a step 22. First of all, I think that few employers would say: we are at great risk in my business that there may be serious abuses. I assume that no employer wants it that way. The individual gets his or her identity protected when he or she introduces internal procedures, but if he or she does not, he or she will not be protected. There's a risk of retaliation. We saw that there were significant problems with this type of legislation. We also saw that the demand for internal procedures was in danger of creating more bureaucracy, simply a lot of shouting for little wool in relation to what we want to achieve, namely greater transparency and security in the workplace and the absence of reprisals for those who sound the alarm of serious abuses. The second proposal was that it would be a very far-reaching confidentiality of authorities. A confidentiality clause was proposed which would apply to all authorities and regardless of the context in which the task was carried out. My assessment is that it has been a very wide-ranging and very unusual confidentiality provision in relation to Swedish transparency. The principle of public access is important, and one should think carefully before making major interventions in it. Comparisons have been made here with other types of confidentiality, but this involves a specific alarm to a specific authority. This law applies to all types of alarms. That is the concept of whistleblowers. It is not that you report to an inspection authority, it is the possibility to publish, and you choose if you want to publish serious irregularities. I believe that careful consideration should be given to whether transparency in the workplace is really promoted by introducing much more extensive secrecy within the state authorities. I am very pleased, Mr President, that there is broad support for the new law in Parliament and that so many stand up for the desire to create jobs with greater transparency, more people who dare to sound the alarm and more that comes to the public's attention. I must also make a comment, Mr President. Magnus Persson succeeded with the thought that if you now go to the government's proposal, which is also the proposal of the majority of committees, it would mean that you risk getting quieter workplaces. One must have a rather special thought structure in the head in order to conclude that a new legislation that provides greater protection, does not remove any protection that exists today, would lead to quieter workplaces. It is already forbidden today to subject employees to reprisals, but now we are also imposing a sanction if you do so. I hope Magnus Persson is the only one who understands it that way.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-584	Mr President, I would like to There is broad support for this legislation. We in the Liberals are in favour of it. What we are opposed to is a very specific part of the list of what is meant by maladministration in legislation. I will make this concrete. If an employer does something that is illegal, a worker whistles about it is protected. Of course we're in on it. If something is not necessarily punishable but perhaps violates financial market rules or how the company itself acts to strengthen its brand – perhaps in the form of different environmental policies or CSR policies, which the employer then acts exactly the opposite – one should be able to whistle about it and be subject to the legislation. We're all in on it. What we are critical of is the list of abuses or serious abuses. It says in the bill that it can be, for example, violations of fundamental rights and freedoms – of course it should be covered – failure to comply with current regulations – of course – and corruption – also of course. All these things counted the Government except one, and that is the last one mentioned: corruption with a risk to life, safety and health, damage to the environment, improper or unauthorized use of public assets and unethical conditions. The Bar Association strongly rejects this, as does the Law Council. Then the question to the Government is how to define what is unethical.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-588	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, unethical relationships are not on their own. The text of the law defines it as serious maladministration in prison on the scale of punishment or thus comparable maladministration. We have seen companies and individuals who have used highly refined tax schemes via Panama to escape tax. I cannot judge whether it is a crime or whether it is right on the border; I do not have that knowledge. But it is absolutely my view that it is grossly immoral and very offensive and unethical. If you sound the alarm about such serious abuses, I think you should be protected, even if it is not a crime committed that has prisons on the scale of penalties.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-591	Mr President, I would like to What the Government now describes in Panama is already covered. Offences against financial market rules, violations of how companies market themselves and a lot of other things are covered. What the government does, and soon the Riksdag probably, is to introduce legislation that also weaves in things that do not have prison on the scale of punishment and does not violate all the other things listed. Then we are back to what the Swedish Bar Association says, and this is explicitly stated in the bill: The Swedish Bar Association objects that the scope of the law should be determined objectively and that a general reference to ethics is neither legally secure nor effective. The sentence then reads: The Law Council believes that it is associated with considerable difficulties in finding out what is grossly offensive to a majority of the public. My criticism of this is from a European perspective. Now that we have this legislation here in Sweden, the risk is that Viktor Orbán will take it in Hungary, that the new government in Poland, as well as a number of other countries in Europe, will take those who have a completely different view on a number of very important issues for us, such as LGBT rights and abortion rights. It would make people whom I raised in my speech to whistleblowers. This is worrying. There are, of course, calls from the Council of Europe for all countries to produce legislation, which is basically a good thing. However, this means that the way we draw up our legislation will be noted with great interest in other countries. To then make general references to the moral perceptions of the majority can lead to a path that I do not think is very good in some cases. This does not necessarily apply in Sweden but in other countries in that case.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-594	Mr President, I would like to It is not the case that some ethical principles are alone in legislation. The legislation says that it is protected if you sound the alarm about serious abuses. Serious maladministration refers to crimes involving imprisonment on the scale of sentences or comparable maladministration. So it is abuses that are comparable to crimes that have prisons on the scale of punishment. It is not that there is a very own assessment somewhere else, but this is the definition of the new law. It is also the case that the new law will apply in Sweden.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-595	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if it was clear, but we were very positive about the proposal. However, we wanted more additions to increase the protection of the individual. If the Minister for Labour then sees this as a thought-worship, it will have to stand for her. Trade unions feel that the proposal is far too hidden. Saco, for example, has said this. Is that a thought vortex? Many professors and law firms have stated that protection is weak. Is that some kind of thought from them, too? I don't know what the Minister for Labour means. I would like to know if there are more people than me who have done a thought. Everyone in the consultation bodies who made counter-proposals - have they also done a thought-worship? I would be grateful for a nuanced answer.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-597	Mr President, I would like to I sat here from the beginning of the debate and listened to Magnus Persson's speech, where he says that the proposal runs the risk of making things quieter in the workplace. I find it very difficult to understand how it can be achieved that legislation protecting workers who sound the alarm about serious abuses would lead to quieter workplaces. I have full respect for the many consultation bodies and debaters who have views that the legislation could be different in some respect. It is obvious and natural in the legislative process and in the democratic debate. However, I have not heard anyone say that the law would risk making things quieter in our workplaces.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-599	Mr President, I would like to For example, I can quote Claes Sandgren – I took his own words when I said this. The Minister for Labour assumes that each individual employee must keep track of the entire law and know the law like a lawyer. And if you can't do that, you should seek support from the union. Today, there are huge numbers of workplaces that lack union organisation and where the workers are not unionised. This may apply to foreign workers without union membership. How are they going to handle this? Should we leave them aside? I believe that confidentiality is the most important thing. The compensation comes second. The whistleblower must be given a certain degree of confidentiality – that must be the most important thing if you are to dare to report.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-602	Mr President, I would like to It is not surprising that Magnus Persson and I have completely different views on what is the main purpose of this legislation. My main aim is to get more open workplaces, to get higher ceilings, to get more people who dare to sound the alarm and that more abuses come to the public's attention so that they can be resolved. Ideally, this should work preventively so that one becomes more anxious to ensure that one does not have serious maladministration in one's activities. That is the main purpose of government legislation. It is a strange reasoning that it would not be possible to introduce legislation if we do not believe that everyone who would have to comply with it could be able to complete the legislation. This is our natural way of legislating. Not everyone knows all the laws, but we are still supposed to be able to live by law in society. Of course, you may need advice when considering whether something is a serious problem or not, or what might be considered to be having sounded the alarm internally in relation to sounding the alarm externally. I have full respect for it, and that is why we are expanding it and providing a significant opportunity for all employees to make contact with their trade union organisation whether or not the employer is bound by collective agreements. We have taken heights for this, but of course we must be able to have legislation that can apply even if not everyone who is covered by it knows every paragraph of the legislation. I can admit that I myself do not know all the clauses of all legislations, even in all the legislations for which the Ministry of Labour is responsible, but I am still fully responsible for them.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-605	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating motions on the working environment and the government's letter on a strategy for the working environment for modern working life. The strategy has been designed around three priority areas: zero vision against fatal accidents, sustainable working life and psychosocial work environment. That is a good approach. The number of fatal accidents has decreased since the 1950s, but it has remained at a constant level in recent years. It is unacceptable for people to die at work. Behind each death is one or more close relatives. Work must be organised in such a way as to prevent death. It is also unacceptable that the police, ambulances and fire brigades cannot do their jobs without the risk of their lives. Stone throwing against blue light personnel must stop now, and the government has no proposals in this area. Today we could hear on the radio that 40% of all police officers feel bad. They have trouble sleeping, and their head hurts. It is not a good development either. The Moderates are pleased that the government continues the work that the Alliance began in formulating strategies that give the work environment a longer-term focus. However, there is a lack of initiative to simplify and make it easy to do the right thing. This is particularly true of smaller companies. The Swedish labour market consists largely of smaller companies, which naturally do not have as much time and resources to absorb the knowledge from the latest research in the field of health and safety at work. The S- and MP government likes to assume that Sweden is still built by large industries and that there are only public employers in the welfare and cooperative employers. I would like to say that it is a pipe dream that most likely only lives with S and LO. They have totally missed that the labour market does not look like it did fifty, or perhaps just five, years ago. We are now living in a post-industrialist era where information technology is changing the roles of employers and workers. In the statistics we can read that only 0.1 per cent of enterprises have more than 250 employees. The share of one-man enterprises is 74%. Micro-enterprises, with one to nine employees, amount to 23%. The remaining part is small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore particularly important that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's information role is developed and improved. If things get too complicated, the interest in health and safety at work risks decreasing. That is why our authorities should make sure that they help, so that companies and entrepreneurs can do the right thing. The Swedish Tax Agency is a brilliant example of how you can go from being a control authority to a service organisation. Examples of issues dealt with in the report are the view on whether to be regarded as an employee or an entrepreneur in relation to the working environment. I very much hope that the government will not come back with any legislative proposals that make it difficult for self-employed workers. In the past, a self-employed person had to have several clients, but that is not the case now. It changed the alliance government on. You simply lost your F-tax note if you had only one client, because you were then considered to be an employee. It is also a question of reviewing the role of the union in relation to regional safety representatives. Of course, these issues will be closely monitored so that they do not hamper entrepreneurship in a modern working life. Another ominous factor in the Swedish labour market is that women are sicker than men. This is very much the case after childbirth. Since the 1980s, women have had higher absenteeism and, unfortunately, differences continue to increase. Mental illness is the most common cause of occupational disease in women. Many women work with public employers. Public employers simply need to improve leadership and management, as it is the organisational factors that are the most common cause of mental illness. This does not only help with proposals on compulsory occupational health care, but simply requires better leadership. Occupational health care already exists for those who work in public. Instead of talking about occupational health care, we should focus on speaking broadly about the working environment. This includes, of course, occupational health care, but also leadership and other services that employers need. Improving women's working environment requires more than compulsory occupational health care, and it is the whole life puzzle that should be taken into account. It is therefore strange that the government in other areas chooses to act in the opposite direction. Let me give you a few examples: the deterioration of the RUT deduction, which has facilitated the life-puzzle of many families with children, and the abolition of the longer time limit in health insurance. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I am in favour of reservations 1 and 6.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-615	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservations 2 and 13 to be endorsed in the report. The Swedish Democrats welcome the development of a strategy on health and safety at work that is largely in line with the efforts made by the Swedish Democrats in this area. On the other hand, we do not share the government's positive attitude towards allowing the EU to set the agenda in the field of health and safety at work, because we see problems with the EU gaining more power over labour market policies where the management of health and safety at work is concerned. For us Swedish democrats, it is obvious that laws and rules on the Swedish working environment should be a national issue. The difference between the EU Member States in terms of health and safety at work is considerable. In the long term, this may weaken the Swedish standard, since it is often necessary to compromise with these countries in order to reach joint decisions. Mr President, I would like to SAM, systematic work environment work, we see Swedish democrats as a good method for working with the work environment at our workplaces. We wish that the government had put more emphasis on this when developing its strategy for health and safety at work. It would have been pretty simple. There are only three important positions: clear information and information for companies, more inspections by the Swedish Work Environment Authority and clarification that SAM is something that all companies should follow. Consider an example. The state is Sweden's largest employer, which is why it may seem strange that SAM is not being followed in the public sector – hardly at all. We therefore believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should immediately be required to implement this in cooperation with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. We believe that this is important for the future. Mr President, I would like to We now come to a very important issue, including for me personally. Over the years I have been quite involved in this in my previous mission as a safety representative, before I was disfellowshipped from it also because of my political domicile. The limitation period for the normal degree of occupational health and safety offences is now two years and for serious crimes five years. Responsibility is now becoming much more difficult and complex when we can see a way of working with subcontractors from different countries in several stages, which makes responsibility more difficult. Today, investigations are closed by the police because the limitation period is simply too short – you do not have time to complete the investigation. We really think that's terrible. We believe that this should not be done and would like to see the limitation period extended in a first step. The length of the investigation must not be an obstacle to the prosecution of the case. Today, many charges relating to serious occupational health and safety crimes are dropped because they simply do not have time to investigate them. There is much more to be done in this regard. You can train the police to get more resources for occupational health and safety crimes. Special prosecutors with special knowledge can be appointed. You can review the penalties. It is quite offensive to the general view of the law that a crime that causes the death of another person in the event of a workplace accident is seen as such a triviality. Workplace accidents must be viewed from a crime perspective. Higher penalties are needed in terms of people's lives and health, and a first step is extended limitation periods so that the authorities have an honest chance of investigating the crimes. It's the least we owe anyone who gets hit. We are seeing today that investigations into deadly crimes are discontinued because the crimes are time-barred - we do not have time for them. I think it is too bad in Sweden 2016.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-626	Mr President, I would like to Working environment in headline form – this usually involves fatal accidents at construction sites, rescue workers being run over in the event of traffic accidents or stone being thrown against blue light personnel. This is always just as serious and terrible, wherever it happens and whoever it happens. In headline form you rarely see all the women who work hard and go into the wall. They tear out their shoulders and body and may not be able to go back to work again. The occupational injury statistics for 2015 from the Swedish Work Environment Authority show an increase in both occupational accidents and occupational diseases overall. For the second year in a row, the biggest increase in occupational diseases has also occurred as a result of organisational and social problems in the country's workplaces. What worries most is that women's occupational diseases continue to increase. For the second year in a row, social and organisational factors are the most common cause. It is the sixth year in a row, and it is more common among women than among men. For women in public administration, health care and education sectors, the figures are highest for occupational diseases. Even among men, these factors are the greatest in these sectors. They are all sectors with large public employers. In the case of workplace accidents, falls are most common for women and accidents in the handling of machinery most common for men. It is the older women and younger men who are injured. Fatal workplace accidents continued to decline in 2015. Now there were 44 people. The number of people killed at work is the lowest ever, but each person is one too many. It is good that the government continues its efforts to formulate strategies that give the work environment a longer-term focus and identify priority areas. What is missing in the strategy are initiatives to improve and simplify the conditions for employers to carry out preventive work environment management. Ultimately, it is employers who, in their daily decisions, have a key role to play in the responsibility for the working environment. The Swedish labour market consists largely of small companies. Smaller companies do not have the same resources to deal with health and safety at work. They are usually handled by the same person who is responsible for several other issues. Working to reach these companies with good tools, simpler rules without reduced ambitions and more in the work to facilitate a good working environment is therefore important. The Alliance Government's strategy on health and safety at work therefore stressed the importance of developing and improving the information role of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We said that it would identify which companies can and want and who can't and who don't want to, and put efforts on the basis of the companies' different knowledge and ambition with the goal that it should be easy to do the right thing. We also established the national function in the field of health and safety at work and working life in order to increase the dissemination of knowledge. Work environment initiatives taken in different sectors should be supported to a greater extent than the Government's strategy indicates, since it is in the industries that you have the best knowledge of what the biggest challenges in each area are. We believe that the government should take initiatives that make it easier for employers in all sectors to carry out good preventive work, develop the information role of the Swedish Work Environment Authority and simplify the regulatory framework and provide more support for occupational health and safety initiatives from different industries that benefit from their knowledge of challenges in each area. Other important actors, such as Prevent, also do important work in this area, outside the Swedish Work Environment Authority's enclosure. Prevent is a non-profit organization owned by trade unions and employers together. They offer, among other things, trainings, checklists, factual articles, books and websites that are easily accessible to companies across the country. Together with the social partners, they develop various forms of industry-specific materials relating to working environments. This can range from difficult situations and relationships between people to various risk factors linked to chemical substances or to, for example, sound, lighting or noise. Exposure and risks differ between sectors, but also between individual companies and between workers. Mr President, I would like to The working environment at Swedish workplaces stands out well in an international comparison. Developments are also moving in many ways in the right direction. What does not follow this trend is that work-related absenteeism has increased slightly over a couple of years. The starting point for a continued positive development with a decrease in the number of accidents at work and occupational injuries is thus relatively good. But it is important to improve the working environment at Swedish workplaces in order to prevent ill health and accidents and prevent people from being excluded from working life. A priority area is women's work environment. Since the 1980s, women have had higher absenteeism than men, and differences continue to increase. More women than men are forced to leave work prematurely because of ill health. Women also report to a greater extent than men that they suffer from both physical and mental work-related problems. But as I said, we rarely see headlines about this. The Alliance Government commissioned the Swedish Work Environment Authority to develop knowledge and to develop and implement specific efforts to prevent women from being excluded from working life due to work environment-related problems. This area should continue to be a top priority. The fact that we in Sweden have a highly gender-segregated labour market and inequality is also reflected in work-related accidents and occupational diseases. This costs lives and causes suffering in Sweden 2016. The report proposes adding the Government's letter to the documents with reference to ongoing work. I support the reservations expressed by the Center Party and call for the approval of reservation 8.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-641	Mr President, I would like to Annika Qarlsson now mentioned that work environment usually exists in headline form and that you never usually see the hardworking women out there. Well, here she has one. Besides, she can have a lot more. We are very much there. We created so many headlines while the Alliance dismantled both our working environment and our security during its time in government. But then, apparently, we were not very interesting to listen to. Having a good working environment may seem obvious. It's not. In fact, the working environment for a great many workers in Sweden is anything but good. In some industries it is so bad that it is usually said that the goal of each day is to come home alive. We need to do something about that. In the world of employers, there are often quite a few other things that can be prioritised rather than spending resources on investigating different types of problems in the workplace, adapting, repairing, remedying, renovating, changing the working environment or rehabilitating workers. As long as no one is seriously injured, the work can continue as usual. When I work at my usual job, which is not here in Parliament but in the labour market, we talk a lot about that among colleagues. Now, of course, we are organized trade unionists and have chosen both trade union representatives and most safety representatives. When something happens, when someone gets hurt or feels bad, then we act. Then we make sure that the employer accepts his responsibility and fulfills his obligation, to ensure that we can continue to walk whole and alive from work every day. Had we not had that order, many events would not have been resolved. Many of our colleagues would not have got what they are entitled to. Then the resources that should have gone to work environment had gone somewhere else, perhaps to profit. Not all workplaces are like where I work, unfortunately. Many workplaces in the labour market currently lack local trade unions and safety representatives. In addition, trade union members are sometimes lacking. Then there is often no knowledge among workers about what applies to them, what requirements they can impose on their employers and where they can turn if something happens. For us in the Left Party, it is absolutely fundamental that all people have the right to a safe and secure working environment. Those who work should be able to end their working life with both physical and mental health. During our working lives, we should be treated as people, not machines. That the working environment is bad for many is not news. It has deteriorated since the 1990s with only some slight recovery, and the differences between officials and workers continue to increase. Nor does it make it any better for many workplaces today to be really slim organisations with hard-hitting work, high pace of work, high performance requirements and little opportunity for workers to influence their work situation. Lack of influence is almost synonymous with ill health in working life. High workload, stress and low manning lead to injuries, ill health and accidents at work, in some cases also fatal. This certainly feels burdensome for everyone involved in labour market issues at political level, such as here in Parliament. But believe me: It feels much worse for those who are forced to work in a bad or dangerous working environment. It felt particularly bad for us and them in 2006 – 2014. The Alliance then took the opportunity to implement massive deteriorations in the working environment and at the same time made it more difficult and expensive for those who actually needed the most to organize themselves. Preventive work environment management weakened. The appropriations for the Swedish Work Environment Agency were cut, the funds for the qualified safety representative training were removed, and the Swedish Work Life Institute was closed. Now we stand here and tread in the mournful old government left. It still feels good that the current government has other, better, ambitions than the previous one, although it is probably impossible to do worse things than it did. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has also received a number of new assignments that should strengthen preventive and systematic work environment management. It has also, in cooperation with us in the Left Party, strengthened the Swedish Work Environment Authority's funding and increased the state contribution for regional safety representatives. That's good. It's a really much-needed change of course. A zero vision against accidents at work, which is increasing, is also good. We've been calling for that for a long time. But we are not satisfied yet, and we think that the government can well raise its ambitions a little more. One area where it is particularly clear that the government only goes halfway is that which deals with regional safety representatives. Under the current rules, there is a need for at least one trade union member in a workplace in order for a regional safety representative to go there and carry out an inspection. For obvious reasons, in some sectors there are major practical problems. This applies, for example, to sectors with mobile or temporary jobs, high levels of job insecurity, high turnover sectors or temporary agency work. I mean, and I know that I have Sweden's safety representative with me in this too, that there should be no doubt that regional safety representatives would also be welcome at workplaces without members if the employer has signed collective agreements. All those involved benefit from the existence of someone on the workers' side who can investigate and point out risks and shortcomings in the working environment. Local health and safety organisations that are not yet there can be started, although there is no member of the trade union at the workplace in certain visits. The Work Environment Act should therefore be amended to give regional safety representatives the right to operate in all companies with collective agreements with or without union members in place. With this in mind, I am in favour of reservation 12, but I am, of course, in favour of all the Left Party's motions and reservations in this area. They all needed to be implemented. Sweden's workers had benefited a great deal from this, and probably also the Social Democrats as a party within the labour movement.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-661	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the joint alliance reservation to be approved under paragraph 1. Today, we are discussing the Government's strategy on health and safety at work for the years 2016-2020. The idea is that the national strategy for health and safety at work should give the work environment a long-term focus. It's positive and good. We need to prevent ill health and accidents and prevent people from leaving work prematurely. Sickness benefits shall not exceed nine days per insured person of working age per year at the end of 2020. This long-term approach is a good thing. That was also our ambition under the alliance government. We are in favour of the government continuing to do this. What we lack, however, are broad initiatives to improve and simplify the conditions for employers to carry out preventive work environment management. The government focuses mainly on individual industries and professions in the strategy. But ultimately it is the employers who are responsible for the working environment. Then we must also focus on developing work environment work. This applies not least in smaller companies, which often do not have much capacity and may not always have a lot of control over all the different regulations, rules and other things. About this is our reservation. Mr President, I would like to One of the priority areas is the psychosocial working environment. Former speakers from both the Left Party and the Center Party also mentioned it in their speeches. Today we have a huge problem not only in working life but throughout society with mental illness. Many people in Sweden simply feel bad. It's not just in Sweden. It is a global problem that surely has some common features in the Western world and in countries where we are similar, but it is a major problem for Sweden. Mental illness has also increased very much. Today, this is the second most common cause of occupational disease. Among women, this is the most common reason for reporting an occupational disease. Mr President, I would like to This development must be broken. The letter lists a lot of things that are done in this area, not least by the Swedish Work Environment Authority. That's good. We will certainly have to do even more. People feel bad is a public disease today, you could say. There are some things that are important to understand in this. The increase in sick leave due to mental illness is to a large extent about women in publicly funded activities. It is about women who have high demands and who take great responsibility but who, at the same time, have little decision-making power and, unfortunately, all too often, poor employers and poor managers. It is about women who work close to people who are often in a vulnerable situation. Examples of occupational groups are social security officers, teachers and nurses. Today they are often squeezed between unreasonable demands, great stress, patients, clients, students, poor management, lack of clarity in tasks and so on. These problems can create extreme stress among many responsible people, often women, who are well educated but have no relevant salary. Given the challenge that parts of the well-being face, it is a problem if Sweden is unable to meet basic commitments to welfare due to the fact that many people who work there do not feel well. It is a major health and safety problem. We need to understand that there are gender aspects to this, there are health and safety aspects to this and there are different dimensions to this. The Swedish welfare is mainly carried by women. The system in Sweden relies on those who work with people to stand up when needed, and they do. When the phone rings in the middle of the night, they pull out, and when they need to stay longer at work, they do. When the workload for a long time is far too high, they are struggling. Swedish welfare relies on those who work in welfare not to say no. The fact that this is mainly women is, of course, due to the inequality we have in Sweden. Women are encouraged to the humane occupations while men do not. Women are raised to be responsible, caring and not putting themselves first. It means a great responsibility for the state, parliament, municipalities, county councils and others not to take advantage of this inequality by expecting those who work in welfare to always stand up. It has a high price for the individual, resulting in high rates of sick leave. We have people in working life in Sweden who get too much personal pressure. It creates mental illness, which leads to people eventually entering the wall or in other ways ending up outside. Mr President, I would like to This is not because people are weak or do not want to do their job. It's often just the opposite. It is about people who work too much to solve their task while the task itself is unreasonable. It is people who take such great responsibility, often because they work with people in a vulnerable situation, that they finally feel that they are carrying the whole difficult situation on their own shoulders. The systematic work environment management is extremely important for preventing mental illness. But it is by no means a miracle cure. It is very much a question of municipalities and county councils becoming better employers. The same applies, of course, to private operators. But municipalities and county councils are by far the largest employers and are also politicians-led businesses. They must improve their ability to recruit but also to retain staff. They also need to develop their management. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned, it is also about equality. In the best of worlds, we release the job when we go home. But that's not how it works, but work and leisure, sleep and alertness, meals and more flow together. Women do more housework than men, and who vacuums and hangs the laundry affects the situation in a broader sense than just at home in the living room. Women do more domestic work than men even in families where both parents live together. In addition, women make up the majority of completely single parents, that is, parents who always have the primary responsibility for children. It is clear that we need to change society to ensure that women do not work too much both at work and at home in relation to men. Of course, one cannot have a high workload at work and at home at the same time. It is our responsibility in Parliament when we talk about sick leave and the working environment to understand these structures and how this is connected.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-683	Mr President, I would like to The aim of the work environment work is to prevent ill health and accidents and to prevent people from being excluded from work. Both employees and employers need to work together for a good working environment and a sustainable working life. The individual can take responsibility for his or her health by, for example, using the health care hour that the employer may provide to exercise or exercise himself outside of work. It is the best way to combat both physical and mental ill health in private but also in working life. The employer, for his part, has an obligation to ensure that work on health and safety at work is systematic and preventive. In many jobs, stress is responsible for the increased number of sick leave. Many are constantly connected to the job, and there will be no chance of recovery. Perhaps we Members of Parliament recognize ourselves in this to be constantly connected. Recently, Metro reported that France is considering legislation to make it illegal to read job e-mails when you are free. It may be going a little far, but it shows that more and more people realise that we need time for recovery in order to have a sustainable working life. In healthcare, it is important to handle heavy lifting but also stress and difficult work sessions. Often, healthcare staff also have to deal with a large administrative burden with documentation of various kinds. More IT solutions are needed here to facilitate the work. We Christian Democrats therefore say in a motion and in a reservation that the government should initiate a survey and a national action plan to address the administrative burden of health professionals and their impact on the working environment. In Sweden, we have worked for a long time to improve the working environment. In the future, health factors will be a strong competitive factor for all companies, and you will more or less have to include it in your calculations. Mr President, I would like to Many companies today work well with the systematic work environment work required by the law by carrying out annual monitoring of the work environment and remedying the shortcomings that exist. They interact with the parties at the workplace, such as safety representatives, but also with outside actors in rehabilitation matters, such as Försäkringskassan and occupational health care. The government parties have invested SEK 110 million in the budget to enable the Swedish Work Environment Authority to recruit 100 new employees. It is good to invest in the Swedish Work Environment Authority, but at the same time the Swedish Work Environment Authority says that you can only increase workplace inspections by about 1 per cent. Instead, I think we need to develop interactive instruments to contact workplaces and monitor and evaluate them. Of course, we need staff at the Swedish Work Environment Authority to deepen our work, but we will never be able to reach all workplaces with personal visits. Mr President, I would like to Now we see worrying signs of an increasing number of sick leave. During the previous Social Democratic Government, 140 people were retired a day in Sweden, as we all know. It was the exclusion of people that we cannot afford to go back to. We now see once again how the curves point in the wrong direction and that sick leave is increasing dramatically. A broad approach is needed here to address the negative developments. When a person is on long-term sick leave, it is sometimes enough to adapt the work tasks and the workplace so that the person can return to work. But sometimes, Mr President, you need to get help for another job, in another workplace that is better suited to the person. Maybe you're just in the wrong place. Unfortunately, this opportunity to test the person against the whole labour market has now been removed by the current government. It is believed that you are doing good, but the question is whether it is right to think about when sick leave will go on sick leave years out and years into the same workplace without getting any further. The government parties argue that they want a work environment strategy for a modern working life. But today's working life requires something new. This requires flexibility and more work change than in the past. Tasks are changing at a faster pace, and social skills are a component that is increasingly needed in working life. Work environment work in the workplace must also be adapted to new requirements and challenges. Threats and violence are important to prevent in the workplace. We know that it is considerably more common for women than men to be exposed to threats and violence in working life. During the time of the Alliance, the Swedish Work Environment Authority received special funds to prevent this matter. That work must continue. Bullying and harassment in the workplace must also be taken seriously. No one should feel uncomfortable about going to work. The employer has a clear responsibility for the working environment, and the legislation on health and safety at work is clear. We must prevent discrimination, which not only harms the individual but affects the entire workplace. During the time of the Alliance, efforts were made at the Swedish Work Environment Authority to help improve women's working environment. The task of carrying out knowledge and information efforts to promote gender equality and combat threats and violence at work is mentioned here. Research on women's health was specifically given special funds. We Christian Democrats believe it is important that we continue to support research into women's ill health. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has an important role in making some impact on workplaces and working preventively. People dying at work is never acceptable. Of course, we should have a clear zero vision of fatal accidents at work. The number of fatal accidents in working life has decreased dramatically in recent decades, but we see that they increase slightly as construction and infrastructure efforts increase. The increased use of foreign subcontractors is a natural part of freedom of movement within the EU, but this must not mean that accidents affect these people due to a lack of information on risks. The person responsible for the work environment must ensure that information is provided in languages that everyone at the construction site understands. Mr President, I would like to From June 2014 to June 2015, women's ill-health rates increased by 1.2 days while men's increased by 0.4 days. There are many different reasons why women are more affected than men by occupational injuries in certain sectors. Since the 1980s, women have had higher absenteeism than men, and the differences continue to increase. Women's ill-health culminates in the two years following the birth of the first child. Occupations with an increased risk of sick leave appear in schools, health care and care, areas in which women are dominant. We Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should develop tools for employers in terms of how they can more effectively identify the various causes of sick leave for women and men in order to improve preventive work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority should find various tools to prevent sick leave. Double work in the sense that the woman still takes the main responsibility for home and family while working can lead to an increased risk of sick leave. Försäkringskassan calls for further studies to verify and deepen knowledge. They call for a working life that is capable of taking account of the specific living conditions of parenthood. We Christian Democrats share that analysis and, as we write in one of our reservations, want to see more research into the conditions of modern working life and how it affects the ability to combine work and family life. With this, Mr President, I support reservations 3 and 8.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-705	Mr President, I would like to This job is an important part of our lives. For me as a social democrat, work is good. It gives goals, it gives structure and it gives meaning. We want and will work, not only to strengthen companies, to get wages and to create tax revenue, but also because it develops us as people. And we have actually built our whole society around the work. We have organised our society around a working community. In this context, work environment work is the kit that ensures that the work makes us feel better and makes us able to work an entire working life without tearing us out. Although most of us are happy and well at work, there are also people who get sick from their work. There are even people who are killed at work and never come home again. The issue of health and safety at work is vital. The Government has therefore developed, among other things, a work environment strategy for the modern working life that applies for 2016 to 2020. That is one of the things we are going to debate here today. Through the strategy, the government raises the level of ambition in health and safety policy significantly. The strategy focuses on three elements, which I wanted to talk a little bit more about. The first area covered by the strategy is the zero vision of fatal accidents and the prevention of accidents at work. It is unacceptable that people lose their lives at work – we can never accept that. No one's going to work to never come home again. For us, a zero vision really means a zero vision. Nothing but a large battery of measures is good enough. This will be the starting point for making those proposals. Let's roll up our sleeves to save lives. The second focus area is about a sustainable working life where we are able to work throughout our lives. Then we have to create a working life where no one wears out. Sustainable working life is also about ensuring that young people enter a good working life directly when they enter the labour market and do not get sick at the start of working life, as some young people actually do today. The third focus area is the psychosocial work environment. It is about professions where, for example, you have a lot of contact with people and where you might almost get a kind of emotional strain injury from the many people in crisis that you meet. We need to find ways of dealing with this so that society can help people in crisis without the wear-out of those who work in these professions, as several have mentioned in today's debate. It is unacceptable that many people today find it difficult to make ends meet because of stress and work-related problems. Everyone has the right to a safe and secure working environment. Mr President, I would like to The work environment strategy has been created in cooperation with the social partners. This is how the Swedish model works at its best. This is how we have previously become world leaders when it comes to health and safety at work. That is where we Social Democrats want us to go again, and we do so through cooperation. This is the Swedish model, and we should be proud of it. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Labour and the Government have also appointed two studies in the field of health and safety at work. One is about a national knowledge centre that will take part in and deliver results from Sweden's successful work environment research. A national knowledge centre for working life and health and safety is a key to Sweden becoming a world-leading nation once again in terms of health and safety at work. Such a centre of knowledge is also of great importance for us to be able to apply the new and most up-to-date research in the field of workplaces, in the real world. Mr President, I would like to The second study focuses on the specific challenges of modern working life. There are many who have already mentioned the challenges we face today. Many people today feel that there is no real line between working and free time. You're always reachable, and you have your cell phone with you everywhere. Of course it can be good to be flexible, and perhaps you do not have to be as hard as it has been mentioned here that the French are discussing. It will be both a social problem and an individual problem for people if more and more citizens can never feel free. Despite the fact that over a hundred years have passed since we in the labour movement started pushing for good working conditions, some issues are equally topical today. Unfortunately, our slogan of eight hours of work, eight hours of leisure and eight hours of rest is equally topical today. At the same time, there are new ways of working. Crowdfunding and the collaborative economy are just some of the many ways of organising work today. We also need to start looking at those ways. They are likely to lead to changes in the regulatory and regulatory environment. Of course, we need to ensure that these new ways of organising work work work in a positive way so that they do not become a threat to human health. Another important part of the study on a sustainable and modern working life is a discussion on the role of regional safety representatives. That has also been mentioned today. They have incredibly important tasks today, but there is also reason to investigate whether they can do even more and have more opportunity to get out in more workplaces. It is also one of the issues involved in the investigation. Existing provisions on occupational safety and health liability also need to be updated in the light of the current situation and become effective. The purpose of the investigation is simply to develop new decision-making documents for us to take these measures. I have mentioned many of the things the government is doing. Much is happening in the field of health and safety at work. There is a big difference today compared to before the 2014 elections. Apart from all the things I have already mentioned, the government is doing even more. I will also mention them, because it is important to get everything that is happening and that we are going to decide on today. The background is important. The investments that are now being made are major financial investments in the field of health and safety at work. There are substantial reinforcements of resources. The total increase in resources is 100 million during the term of office in the field of health and safety at work, but it is actually 100 million a year. 60 million of these 100 goes to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's administrative grant. There's a huge difference. We can already see how the Swedish Work Environment Authority has gone from 355 employees under the alliance government to now 620, and they are still hiring more and more inspectors in Stockholm and around the country. This means that the Swedish Work Environment Authority can be more visible in the workplace and work more preventively. This also means that the Swedish Work Environment Authority can have peace of mind after many years of saving. We also allocate EUR 10 million in additional support to the annual support to the Regional Safety Officers. It is an incredibly important piece of work, and it has already been mentioned today. We would also like to point out that they need extra support. We also allocate money to occupational health care. Occupational health care has also been discussed today. Although it is believed that it is possible for everyone to have access to occupational health care, this is not the case today. Investigation after investigation shows that in large parts of the labour market there is no access to occupational health care. Therefore, it is important for us to ensure that it is possible for more people to have access to occupational health care and to invest in the provision of skills in occupational health care. A great deal has also been said about research. An important part of the government's efforts is research, not least on how women's ill health in the labour market can be prevented. In total, our reinforcements in working life research amount to 55 million during our term of office. That's also a good amount of money. There can be no doubt that health and safety at work are extremely priorities for the government. Through active and preventive work environment work, we want to reduce the stress and pressure that make many people in today's working life feel inadequate. We want to create an even better working life for everyone in our country. We know that it is possible and that things can get better, even much better. We've done it before. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the proposal contained in the AU8 report.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-728	Mr President, I would like to I can see that in Magnus Magnus's speech I could hear that the previous government reduced the grant to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It's not like that. From 2009, the funding has been constantly increasing. I have a few questions for the Social Democrats. You talk a lot about women's work environment, but why don't you support Moderates' multiannual commitment to women's work environment? The government's investment is only in one year. There is a national centre in the proposal. Is that the answer to the question about the new Work Life Institute? I know that the Social Democrats did a lot of evil when it was closed down. You say one thing but act in a different direction. This applies not only to these issues, but also to the deduction of employment tax. You're doing evil about it, but you're not doing anything about it, which, in itself, I think is good. Then there was one more thing, namely the view of the Social Democrats on entrepreneurs. In view of the debate, I am concerned that you will restore that it will take several clients to be self-employed. In the past, you had to have several clients, and today you don't have to. It's good for the entrepreneurs. Then you could get rid of your F-tax, and thus you could not continue to run the company. It would be very sad if it were to go in that direction.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-732	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank Erik Andersson for the questions he has asked. These are important questions, and I will try to answer them all. I may not have time for the first two minutes, so I'll have to continue for the next two minutes. The first question about the Swedish Work Environment Authority is very important. It is good that we can be clear and look at what happened. The major cuts in work environment work made by the previous government took place shortly after the elections. It has been common for bourgeois governments to tear off the patch directly when it comes to deterioration in welfare – perhaps to forget about the elections. I don't know why, but it's probably a strategy. If we are to look at the possibility for the Swedish Work Environment Authority to operate on the basis of the resources it received, a major change took place. In 2006, when Göran Persson was still Prime Minister, in a Social Democratic government, the Swedish Work Environment Authority carried out – I have the figures for the work's inspections in hand – 25 784 inspections. In 2013, the year before the Moderates and the Alliance lost power, there were 19 027 inspections. It is a reduction of over 6 000 inspections. That is a major reduction, over 20%, in inspections. This is due to the large reduction in appropriations, about 30%, made by the Alliance. It is also interesting to look at the number of employees. In 2006, there were 868 employees at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Many were also regional so that they could work closely with companies. In 2013, there were 555 employees. Erik Andersson is right that the number did not decrease much. In 2009, there were 554 employees, and in 2013 there were 555. In fact, an extra one was hired over the four years. It was a fantastic grant from the bourgeois government!
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-737	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats usually talk about control and inspections. But it's a lot about information and sharing information. I spoke in my speech about the fact that the self-employed do not have all the time to spend on finding out the latest findings in the field of health and safety at work. It's good to share that information. The IRS is a government agency we're going to look at. It has really gone from a control authority to a service authority. It has most likely led us to get more tax – for everyone's good. You answered one of my questions, if I heard right. But the question I would like answers to is why you do not support the Moderates' multiannual commitment to women's work environment while the government is only investing for one year. Then I asked about the national centre, whether it would be the new institute of work. In view of the work environment, you should also look at the whole life puzzle. There you have made quite major changes in the RUT deduction. The RUT deduction has helped many families get their lives together. That's why it's sad that you all talk very much about the importance of a good work environment and the importance of people not getting sick. But at the other end, you pull the carpet under the feet of the families that don't make life go together.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-742	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the questions. I think it is great that questions are asked, but I wish we could have had a longer discussion on this. It is incredibly important that we touch on these issues in this House too, and not just in committee. I'll try to answer the questions. As far as small businesses are concerned, I share your view that it is incredibly important that there is support for them. In particular, the Regional Safety Officers are an important part of this. Simplification for small businesses in order to get in touch is perhaps the best aid available today. Another major support for many small businesses was the Work Life Institute, which was able to provide support and knowledge. It was not only the large companies that could take part in research, but there was coordination of this at the Institute of Labour where small companies could have access to contacts and information on these issues. After all, the problem was a form of political vendetta when you shut down the Work Life Institute as soon as you could. The work life institute's activities included the organisation of work, not only the medical work environment, but also the conditions of work and the power of the workplace. There are the Moderates and the Social Democrats on completely different sides. I understand that the Moderates shut down the Work Life Institute, for it did not benefit the interests of your party. But it benefited workers and small businesses. I think that question is a little strange. It is you who pull the carpet away from small businesses. We invest a great deal in research into women's work environment, because that is what is needed above all. We are investing in this in the long term, throughout the term of office. The most serious thing in women's working environment that I can see during the workplace visits that I make is the approximately 140 billion that the bourgeoisie pulled down during the previous term of office. It primarily eroded women's working environment in public activities. It is probably the most serious blow to women's working environment that has taken place in modern times.
i-5nBbDX7Mm1tQZPDbUjRfdW	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Manhammar, for your speech. I have a small question about what research will look like about modern working life in the future. After all, you complained for many years that the Arbetslivinstitutet was shut down. I have not understood that you are going to set up a new one, or is this investigation to be understood as the creation of a new employment institution? Or how should research work be done when it comes to modern working life? I also believe that the Social Democrats recognise that working life has largely changed. It is an increased flexibility, and people may move more between different workplaces than they did in the past. Then you could remain 20 to 30 years in the same workplace. Today, it is expected to move. Perhaps the increased flexibility is good. I therefore wonder how the Social Democrats view the future research work. We have met the Swedish Work Environment Authority and discussed this with the resources. How many hundred million should be set aside to achieve full coverage in terms of visiting all workplaces? That's almost impossible. The Director General of the Swedish Work Environment Authority says that if you get 100 million, this means an increase in controls at all workplaces from 5 to 6 percent. How do the Social Democrats view this? How do you get it to include more visits? I then suggested that perhaps we should work together more interactively with the workplaces. But I do not think this is the solution, so I am a little surprised by the 100 million Social Democrats. They do not solve the issue of workplace inspection. I would like a little comment on that.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-753	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you very much for the questions from Mrs Pethrus, and I will try to answer them. It is great that we can drill further into this policy area. Mrs Pethrus asked whether a new working life institute should be set up. There should be no new working life institution. This is not what the investigation is about; it is about a national centre of knowledge for the evaluation and coordination of research that is taking place today. I met with one of the researchers from the Institute of Occupational Life who was tasked with closing it. That was the pretty crazy thought you got about ten years ago. We talked about this a lot, and he thought it was bizarre because Sweden was the world leader in the preventive work environment in 2006. The Institute of Work was the institute that could coordinate the research. We have very good research at many universities, in Luleå, in Örebro, in Lund and here in Stockholm. The coordination that took place then does not exist today, and that is a huge problem. I and several others in the committee already have cooperation and discussions with Helene Hellmark Knutsson on how to invest even more in research and, above all, coordinate it. At the moment, the research is fragmented, and so did the researcher I met yesterday. So we see this as a problem in which it must be coordinated. The moderate representative said earlier here that it is necessary to coordinate research in order for companies to take advantage of the new research findings that exist. Sweden could easily become a world leader again, but then we must use the research findings that exist. The researchers cannot sit hidden up in Luleå or Örebro, but they simply have to be used in reality. I'll answer the next question later.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-760	Mr President, I would like to Then I'll have to repeat one of the questions. Magnus Manhammar said in his speech that the Swedish Work Environment Authority will now have much more time out at the workplace. I see it as saying from the Swedish Work Environment Authority that you can increase visits to workplaces from 5 to 6 percent. Sometimes I wonder how many millions it would take to cover all the work. That, of course, is not possible; it is an entirely unreasonable thought. But I would still like to have a comment on where the limit is. How many millions do the Social Democrats want to invest in this in order for you to be satisfied? Or do we have to think new and work in a completely different way with interactivity over the net? It is good that we have research that is applicable and current. The research is intended for the development of working life and for an opportunity for employers to exchange knowledge so that they can improve. I hope that it is the specific situation of small businesses that is affected. We haven't talked much about them, but we've got it in one of our reservations from the Alliance. I believe that many small businesses want to do the right thing in the work environment. You want to do right by your staff and you feel a lot about it, but it is not always easy to keep up with the legislation on health and safety at work. When the Swedish Work Environment Authority comes out for inspections, it is important that there is a dialogue on how to develop the work environment in a positive way. The Swedish Work Environment Authority must have a learning situation, so to speak. But my question remains, especially about what Magnus Manhammar said about much more time out at the workplace with another 100 million to the Swedish Work Environment Agency. According to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the number of inspections at workplaces ranges from 5 to 6 per cent.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-764	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the questions surrounding this. I'll try to answer them. It is not 100 million to go to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, but 60 million in funding increase. Let us try to be as objective as possible in this discussion. I met with a representative of the Swedish Work Environment Agency yesterday and discussed with him what you can get out of the money you receive, so it's great that you ask the question right today. She told me it's just like you say. Over the past year, it has been difficult to increase the number of inspections. The work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority was dismantled by the former alliance government. It is difficult to get started again out locally. In order to do that, new inspectors need to be available locally. It is not always easy to find, because the training of new inspectors has also been cut. It has also been a problem. So it takes some time before you can turn this back and it can start to work better. She meant that it is clear that more millions are needed. 60 million is a great step along the way, and they are already taking us much further ahead. But if we are to get back to where we were before the bourgeois government destroyed the work environment policy in Sweden, we will have to do a lot. In 2006, we were world leaders. In 2013 – this can be seen in black and white as to how many inspections and employees there were – we had gone under the ILO recommendation, i.e. the international recommendation, for how many inspectors you should have in a country. Of course, it is quite embarrassing for a country that has been the world leader to end up among the worst in the class. So we have a bit to go on about it. When it comes to more cooperation and more interactive work, we think it is great suggestions. I think that we should talk more about it, and it is certainly also such directives that you can give the Swedish Work Environment Authority to work with. It is clear that the more people who have the opportunity to access the work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the better.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-770	Mr President, I would like to The zero vision of the number of deaths in the workplace has been an important objective for the Social Democrats for a long time. It is now part of the work environment strategy. Only in a short kit is it breathed that it should be carried out with a battery of measures. Now I give Magnus Manhammar two minutes to be- write this battery of measures.
i-M2EcSeGdNMkhEvF4Szi5j8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Annika Qarlsson! This is a work environment strategy that will work 2016 – 2020. In particular, efforts should be made to develop proposals in this area. It is not really up to me to go ahead and say what proposals are to be made, but that is what the strategy for health and safety at work is all about. These strategies should be developed, and this should not happen on the basis that I sit in my room in the Parliamentary Office of the Social Democrats. This is not where we draw up the proposals, but in order to achieve this, we are putting forward the proposals in collaboration with the parties. That's how it works in Sweden, and that's the Swedish model. So for me it gets a little weird to say something here. In that case, I would depart from the Swedish model, and I do not. I think the Swedish model has served us well. I said earlier that we in Sweden have been the world leader in the work environment. We have been, and that is something we can be proud of. But we were just through collaboration. Here and now taking a step away from that is nothing I will do.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-774	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it was the battery of measures that formed the basis of the proposal that has been pursued in I do not know how many years. Somewhere else this has also been pushed from the outside to try to make it a conflict, to someone else wanting something else. That is exactly what I am most opposed to. There is a self-righteousness in the speaker's chair and describes that there were those who only corrupted – those who only want to harm, those who want people to hurt! But there is also goodness, and it is right now in the speaker's seat. ..................................................... That part that's connected to this, that you put it in the political discussion and you can't see that we have different entrances on the same issue and maybe want to solve things in different ways, makes me sometimes really pissed off. I don't know if it feels or it's noticed, but it's a little bit like that. Zerovision has been said in the speaker's chair in I do not know how many years. To then not even have an idea what it would mean in the next step without for that reason moving away from the Swedish model, it becomes just silly. You described that you were in conversation yesterday, Magnus Manhammar, with inspectors from the Swedish Work Environment Agency. There must be a thought and an idea. What do we fill this with? How do we get to it? There is no one in this House who does not want to get to it, who does not want every one of the 44 who did not come home from work last year to come home. Describe to me the thoughts and ideas that exist without departing from the Swedish model! What should we fill this with so that we eventually achieve that everyone can come home from work and that no one has to die at work?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-780	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the post, Annika Qarlsson, and for highlighting this incredibly important question! I mean, if anyone knows how bad things can go in the workplace. In the previous debate on these issues, I described, for example, that my grandfather was exposed to asbestos in his work, that it was really about the work environment at his workplace and that they had not been able to anticipate what it was at the time. He and his coworkers paid with their lives for it, so if anyone knows what this means and feels a commitment to it. It is clear that there is a battery of measures that are already being worked on. One measure is to be able to work preventively. This could, for example, be about inspectors. The major result of the reduction at the Swedish Work Environment Authority that the bourgeois government did was precisely that it was not possible to work preventively in the same way as before. With many fewer inspectors you could mainly get out when you had received a report, but you could not work preventive as you had done before. I think we need to work very broadly. One thing is the Swedish Work Environment Authority, but of course it is far from everything. We have a Swedish model about safety representatives. It is about training, both for entrepreneurs and for those who are union elected. It is a question of new regulations. It is about research, on which we spend an incredible amount of money, to find the new funds – the new asbestos – which may be what kills people. Several things have already been discussed that may have to be banned. It is therefore a question of implementing a battery of measures. But I'm not the one who should come up with all those suggestions myself. I am not the expert; I am the politician who creates the conditions for ensuring that there is a zero vision that can work. That's what I'm working on. Then we do this together-- that's when we do best.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-786	Mr President, I would like to Our society is organized around work. It is the center of our culture. If we meet a new person, the first thing we ask is what it does for a living. If we choose partners, work and pay are not unimportant. One may think it is good or bad, but for us it is work that more than anything else creates value and social inclusion. At the same time, we have different standards for working life than for our lives outside of work. We are judged by how we perform and how we manage to perform our tasks and compete for new tasks. In the eyes of many, our value is determined by our ability to work. Sometimes, unfortunately, even in our own. We are expected to thrive, deliver and lead. Mr President, I would like to In the light of this, it is no wonder that mental illness is one of the greatest health and safety problems of our time – when, for various reasons, you cannot deliver the results required, when you run between the older ones you are going to help, when you want so much but are not enough. Maybe things happen in your personal life that go out to work. If the work that is so much of your identity is a place you don't want to be, is it strange that you feel bad? Mr President, I would like to For us in the Green Party, the balance between working life and life outside work has always been an important part of our ideology. We believe that the opportunities to feel good at work are greater if the work is not the only thing that matters in your life and if things don't stand and fall with having a fair boss or kind colleagues. We think it's easier to have the courage to change jobs if you are strong in yourself and not only in your performance – if you see that you have a value outside the office, factory, school and that you also have time for your family and friends and are needed and able in other contexts than just at work, whether it's as a trainer in the children's sports association or as a treasurer in the local community. Mr President, I would like to It's not all about standards. There is much we can do through politics. Today we are debating the Government's letter A strategy for modern working life 2016 – 2020. The strategy includes three focus areas: sustainable working life, the psychosocial working environment and a zero vision against fatal accidents and the prevention of accidents at work. There are many things you can do about the work environment through, for example, better rules and laws, special investments in industries with a high level of ill health and more resources for control and preventive work environment work in the workplace. The Government has allocated SEK 100 million per year for operations in the field of health and safety at work during its term of office. In the field of psychosocial work environment, for example, we are investing in a dialogue forum to improve the psychosocial work environment, competent leadership and preventive work environment work against offensive discrimination. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has been tasked with developing guidance on work environment challenges, carrying out an increased supervision of working time related work environment issues, investing in supervision of the work environment within elderly care with a focus on psychosocial work environment and identifying working environment conditions within domestic services. The Swedish Work Environment Authority also works on inspections of the social security secretary's work situation, including in terms of threats and violence problems. In addition to this, we invest in increased staffing in the social care of children and young people and in the care of the elderly, as well as making investments in schools. It is gratifying that the Government has a clear ambition to address all the complex and varied challenges facing the Swedish labour market today and probably also in the future. I would like to conclude my speech with a quote from the TCO President, Eva Nordmark, from a debate article a few months ago: ..................................................... I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-HbiqrA87kk88TFAZ3Vqjxs	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 9 in the report on the activities of the European Union in 2015. 2015 was something that could be called the year of crises within the European Union. It was marked by a refugee crisis, a financial crisis, fragmentation, nationalism and protectionism that grew stronger, the UK that declared that a referendum with Brexit and b remain as an alternative, terrorism, an aggressive Russia, a climate crisis, low growth, high youth unemployment – to name but a few of these crises. They have followed us into this year, 2016, which is something of a fateful year for cooperation within the Union. I shall mention in particular some of these crises of greater importance. I'll start with the financial crisis. It was one of last year's major challenges, especially the Greek crisis. It affects not only the euro countries, but also Sweden, the Swedish taxpayer and Swedish exports, while general concern and instability risk leading to lower economic growth. Therefore, it was and is of great importance that the euro area countries found a solution for Greece and that Greece also implements the reform agenda that has been presented. In the context of the acute crisis in Greece in the summer of 2015, we Moderates took a clear position that decisions concerning all Member States, i.e. the EU 28, should be preceded by a process involving all Member States. We were against the risk of the Greek financial crisis for Swedish taxpayers. As we were given a guarantee that only the euro area countries would bear the risk, we were able to approve the EFSM loan in question during the summer of 2015. It is important that Swedish taxpayers are not at risk of crises within the euro zone. The second item on the agenda was the climate negotiations. In December 2015, for the first time, the world reached a major global climate agreement that must be seen as a success for the EU. The challenge now is to move from words to action. Europe has gone ahead, and it is important that Europe continues to lead the way. The government must therefore ensure that Europe remains a strong voice in international climate action. The third point raised was free trade negotiations. The most important of these free trade negotiations was that between the EU and the US on the TTIP Transatlantic Free Trade and Investment Agreement. The agreement is intended to be more comprehensive and profound than any of the free trade agreements previously signed by the EU. It will create the world's largest regional free trade area. Connecting the world's two largest economies in this way is good for economically sustainable growth, for employment, for the strength and vitality of such a central transatlantic link, for security and for free trade. For Sweden, the agreement is very important. Over the years, Sweden's development and prosperity have been closely linked to free trade's land loss. This is still the case today. The United States is also one of our most important trading partners. It is important that we achieve as ambitious a result as possible with a high level of investment protection for Swedish, European and American investors alike. This should be one of the top priorities for the Swedish Government in the future. The fourth point I want to mention is the Eastern Partnership. It has now been more than two years since Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and its military aggression in eastern Ukraine. Russian aggression must stop. Crimea and Sevastopol must be returned to Ukraine. It is important that the serious situation is not normalised or accepted. It is therefore important that Sweden continues to keep up the momentum of the Union, so that the EU continues to support the sovereignty, territorial integrity and right of Ukraine and other countries to make their own choices in terms of foreign, security and trade policy. The EU must uphold international law and safeguard the European security regime. As far as Russia is concerned, it is important that the EU continues to act coherently and that the government continues to be a strong and clear voice in support of Ukraine's independence and independence. The Eastern Partnership has never been more important than today. Sweden needs to prioritise it in the future. Mr President, I would like to I have not yet mentioned the two main issues. That is the British referendum and the issue of migration. The British referendum took up a large part of the agenda in 2015. The agenda was characterised above all by the reform requirements that the UK wanted to impose on the EU for the forthcoming referendum. At the beginning of this year, an agreement was signed between the EU and the United Kingdom. The Moderates welcomed it. We were clear that it was important to be pragmatic in the face of British demands. Many of the requirements could lead to a better EU. For us Moderates, it is important that Britain remains a member of the European Union. The British are among our closest partners in working with and fighting for free trade, cutting red tape, regulatory simplification, growth, opening up to competition, a reform agenda and an integrated internal market. The single market is one of the main merits of EU cooperation. It is a market that is best off without barriers to trade and unnecessary bureaucracy. The UK is one of Sweden's most important partners in the development of the single market. Our two countries are outside the euro area and wish to counter the fragmentation of the EU as euro cooperation deepens. We also share the view that the EU budget should be kept tight and focus on what leads to growth and competitiveness. If it becomes a Brexit, Sweden will not only lose an important ally in negotiations on free trade and the internal market. Without Britain, the EU is also in danger of moving in a more socialist and federalist direction. A Europe without Britain as a member would be poorer. A Europe without Britain is a poorer Europe. It is up to the British to rule in just a few weeks' time, namely on 23 June. The British will then go to the polls on this major issue of the future development of the Union. Perhaps the last question is also the most serious one. Nevertheless, the most serious crisis is that people fleeing war and terror have been faced by a Europe that has not been able to deal with the refugee situation. We all remember the heartbreaking pictures of the dead three-year-old boy Alan Kurdi in the arms of the Turkish policeman. Alan and his family had fled the IS attack on Kobane and were lost on the Mediterranean, along with thousands of other men and women, boys and girls whose lives have been lost. In 2015, a focus was placed in the debate on saving lives and combating trafficking in human beings. We welcome that. Unfortunately, however, it is clear that the EU has not yet done enough to meet this refugee situation. It is a downgrade for the EU Member States that they do not deliver on the basis of decisions taken. There have been very many meetings, and we have seen very little results. I have calculated that there were over 20 different EU summits last year. And a series of good decisions were made. Among other things, it was decided in September 2015 to redistribute 160 000 asylum seekers who were detained in Italy and Greece, among others, within two years. They would be redistributed within the Union. After six months, barely 500 people had been redeployed. At that rate, the EU will have redistributed 2 000 people within these two years. Some argue that redistribution is far too slow. It's an understatement. It's not even slow. I can't do that at all. In order for more countries to take responsibility, in order for us to have joint and several responsibilities within the Union, we need to start implementing the decisions that have been taken. When the results shine with their absence, it is important to focus on how to achieve results. That is why we Moderates have pushed the question that it must pay off doing the right thing and punishing themselves for doing the wrong thing. The budget shall be used as a whip and carrot. We regret that the government has not yet chosen to pursue this issue. Mr President, I would like to In the run-up to 2016, we and EU cooperation face major challenges with large flows of refugees, terrible terrorist attacks and conflicts in the Union's southern and eastern neighbourhood. At a time of uncertainty and conflict, Sweden and the EU must be a strong voice for human rights, democracy, peace, the rule of law and gender equality. The Moderates have on several occasions called on the government to handle EU policy more responsibly. We will continue to do so, especially as Europe is now facing its most important year ever. With high-level issues such as refugee crisis, financial crisis, fragmentation, UK referendum, terrorism, low growth and high youth unemployment, a clear Swedish voice is needed in European policy. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to remind you that I am in favour of reservations 4 and 9.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-821	Mr President, I would like to Then we shall once again review the EU's so-called yearbook. Unfortunately, in its retrospect, there will actually be a primary debate about what has been and not about what is and what is to be. But that will not, of course, prevent me from touching both parts. The history of the EU also affects the future of the EU and its Member States, for a long time to come. For our own part, we can see that the EU has had a decision-making impact on as much as 60% of municipal decisions, 50% of decisions in regions and county councils and as much as 43% of Parliament's legislative activities. This means that Parliament's elected representatives only partially represent their voters and that the EU decides the rest. But that also means that, if we are dissatisfied with the decisions and influence of the European Union, we can do nothing about it. In fact, legislative action in the EU is not voluntary. In addition, only the non-elected European Commission has the power to draft legislative proposals. For those who are dissatisfied with what the EU is doing, there is therefore no possibility, as in general elections, to opt out of those who do not think represent one's own interests. That is why this is one of the EU's fundamental greatest disadvantages for all of us who believe in democratic support. For all parties who think differently, who do not think that democracy and national self-determination are important, the defence of this view often becomes thereafter. As a rule, the answer is as follows: we are economically dependent on the European Union, we must cooperate, the European Union contributes to development and we must be involved in influencing it. If you ask me, the answer is: It is the European Union that is dependent on Sweden economically. For every four billion we pay for Swedish EU membership, we get 1 billion back. Sweden therefore pays SEK 40 billion and receives only SEK 10 billion a year. It is thus argued that the SEK 30 billion net that Sweden pays annually is not really a cost. But looking at the countries in Europe that are outside, such as Norway, Switzerland and Iceland, it can be seen that, despite the EU's alleged excellence, they have over time suffered lower unemployment. In addition, they have had higher employment, better public finances, less corruption and higher welfare quality indices than all the participating EU Member States. That is exactly how it was for Sweden before we joined the European Union. The question then arises: If these countries are able to maintain all this without giving up democracy and independence, why should Sweden not be able to do so? The answer from the EU federalist usually is that it is not possible to join the duty-free trade union without membership of the European Union, even though the countries that are outside de facto do so. But the answer is usually also that Sweden, as a small nation, is dependent on cooperating with other countries, although no one has claimed otherwise, despite Sweden's cooperation even before Swedish membership of the European Union, but also despite the fact that countries that are still outside full EU membership can cooperate with other countries and with the EU. The question should therefore be asked as soon as possible whether a supranational, power-hungry and federal Europe can be called cooperation. Co-operation must well reasonably mean that one gets along in some sense and does not run over one another. As many people know, Europe works in this sense just the opposite. In all areas where you already have legislative power, you constantly move forward your positions. In those areas where dialogue with the Member States still needs to be pursued, decisions are therefore pushed forward by allowing state representatives to negotiate at ministerial summits from morning to night, without reasonable possibilities for rest or thought-out. Nor is it a coincidence that the meetings of the EU Board, in which Sweden's position on EU policy issues on the part of Parliament is decided, are closed to public scrutiny. While all domestic policy decisions taken are openly discussed in the Parliament's Chamber, decisions taken by the EU Board are often characterised by confidential decision-making documents, protected under the Secrecy Act. I – who have been elected to Parliament to represent the voters, with the view that power should be based on the people – are thus prevented from describing in detail the problem of the EU that the old parties stubbornly call a cooperation project. When we come to the argument that Europe is contributing to development and that we need to be involved in influencing, I cannot help but think about what we are going to influence – but especially what we are going to be affected by and how I am going to be given a legal opportunity to have a debate on this. Above all, for many years I have been thinking about what it is worth for us to be forced to influence a small proportion of decisions with an impact in other countries against other people's political representatives being able to influence a significantly larger proportion of decisions in our country. But not least, for many years, I have also been thinking about what drives the old parties not only to defend but also actively contribute to ever more expensive EU membership, to defend a euro and an EMU that the Swedish people have said in a referendum – and in opinion polls still clearly says – that they do not want or continue to help dedemocraticise and deepen Europe's federalisation. In this context, of course, it is not possible to mention Parliament's eagerness to now also give up Sweden's self-determination in the area of migration. Clearly, it is not enough for the EU to stand up for half of Parliament's legislative power, for the EU to set up new supranational authorities on a continuous basis, for the EU to prepare for its own EU army, for the EU to already rule over important economic institutions and regulations, for the EU to force Sweden to finance youth unemployment in other countries or for the EU to have its own flag and national anthem. The next step is now also to shift the entire migration policy and skewed distribution keys to the EU. Madam President, I would like As an individual representative or for that matter as a voter, one sometimes gets upset about the EU's powerfulness or stupidity. But for the truth, it is ultimately the Swedish Parliament that is – and should be – responsible for the EU being able to make all these stupid decisions. If the Swedish Parliament is serious about standing up for democratic values, for the protection of taxpayers' money and for Sweden's interests, then we should also follow the example of Britain by renegotiating with the EU on a withdrawal of power, followed by a referendum. But, of course, we should also start to get tough in the negotiations with the EU in general. There are, of course, only a few policy areas left where the Member States and Sweden still have the right of veto, but these policy areas are, on the other hand, highly interesting for the EU to penetrate. For any proposal for a decision which Sweden can accept and which does not transfer power to the EU, Sweden is thus able to negotiate exceptions in other policy areas through the right of veto. If the United Kingdom and Denmark could obtain exceptions to the introduction of EMU and the euro, of course, Sweden can also do so. If we can work with other countries to influence the EU's federal decisions, we can also work with other countries to minimise the federal elements. I have said it before and say it again: Swedish EU membership costs more and more, it gives less and less, and it takes more and more of our self-determination away from us. Let us not continue that development! Instead, let us look at Britain and all the democratic forces around Europe which are strengthening their influence on a daily basis and which are working for a Europe of free nations! Sweden and Europe were not built strongly by wide-open borders, reduced democratic influence or increased supranational control. More power transfer at every crisis is not the solution to the problems of Sweden, Europe or the world. Instead, let us build Sweden and Europe on democracy, cooperation and genuine cooperation, cooperation where we trade with Europe, cooperate against cross-border crime, tourists in each other's countries and cooperate on environmental issues, but where we equip our own defence and decide our own immigration policy, fiscal policy, foreign policy, fiscal policy, social policy, border policy and labour market policy! It was with democracy, cooperation and independence that we once built this country and Europe strong. It is also with democracy that we are building this country and the whole of Europe strongly in the future. With this, I support SD's reservations 13 and 31.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-844	Madam President, I would like I listened with interest to the Swedish Democrats and Johnny Skalin. I do not really know in which end I should begin to respond to the claims and some untruths that were perhaps also put forward. Among other things, Johnny Skalin said that they want to look at the UK and that they recommend going the same way, having a referendum with the alternative of leaving the Union. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats are against cooperation for Sweden within the European Union. But the Swedish Democrats have never presented what they want instead. What do you want instead? Do you want to isolate yourself completely and be completely protectionist, or do you see that you would like to cooperate, that you could travel within Europe to study, be a tourist or trade with each other, or do you just want to lock the door and lock yourself in here in Sweden and in the Nordic countries? What do the Swedish Democrats want?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-847	Madam President, I would like If Ulrika Karlsson had listened to my speech, she would have heard that I mentioned exactly what we wanted. We want to be able to cooperate with other countries, but we want to be able to do so by working together, by agreeing on what you want to cooperate with and not running over the other side on the issues that you want to cooperate on. Of course, we also want to see an opportunity to travel in Europe and worldwide. We want to trade with Europe. We want to cooperate on cross-border issues, such as criminality, environmental issues and other pressing issues. We also have certain economic issues on which we must cooperate across borders, but not by sacrificing our own self-determination. This is what distinguishes Sweden's democrats' view of Sweden, Europe and the EU from that of the Moderates. Contrary to what Ulrika Karlsson showed in her main speech here in the speaker's chair, the Moderates stand for a world without borders. I do not think that this bordering issue needs to be a problem. Apparently, the Moderates seem to think so. That is also why the Moderates defend the federal power structure that is constantly and very quickly being built up in Europe. I question why they do it. Why do you not put the interests of the Swedish people first, and why do you not think on the part of the Moderates that power should be based on the people? If you think that power should be based on the people, why let the EU decide on almost 50% of Sweden's legislation? The latest statistics in this area show that 43 per cent of the decisions in the Swedish Parliament are made under the influence of the EU. More are on their way – why, Ulrika Karlsson?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-851	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Johnny Skalin for the very unclear answer. I did not hear anything about what the Swedish Democrats want instead. He says that the Swedish Democrats want to cooperate. But that presupposes that someone wants to be able to cooperate with us. In what form do you want to cooperate? Do you want an EEA agreement that Norway has? It would be much more expensive, and it would not give us any opportunity to influence. Do you want to do like Switzerland? It would take a very long time. Do you just want a WTO agreement? Or don't you want anything? It is a great risk for Swedish tourists, for Swedish students and for Swedish companies if the policy of the Swedish Democrats has a greater impact. It would be much worse for Sweden to leave the Union. Johnny Skalin is welcome to clarify, not only that you want to be able to cooperate, but how you intend to cooperate.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-854	Madam President, I would like There are, in particular, some large countries – they are quite small countries, but in terms of population there are a number of millions of people – namely Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Lichtenstein, who are outside the European Union. If the UK chooses to leave the EU, an even greater part is outside the European Union. There is also the possibility for Sweden to do so. Then there'll be even more of us standing outside. The more we get, the more opportunities we have to negotiate with the European Union about what we are to be included in and what we are not to be included in. If we are also outside the EEA, which I do not think is an optimal agreement, we have a higher degree of independence than we have through the European Union. However, my point in calling on the whole of Europe to safeguard democracy and self-determination is that the more people who choose to remain outside, the more you can cooperate without having to endure the EU's full power. It is not about there being a risk that students will not be able to study anywhere else, that we will not travel anywhere and that we will not be able to shop. That is exactly what is being done in the countries outside today. Sweden depends on Europe, and Europe depends on Sweden. That was also part of the point of my main speech. That's not something I disagree with. This is something that we can actually agree on between the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates. Unfortunately, however, when these issues are raised, the Moderates must always exaggerate and extrapolate the argument in a way that makes everything black or white – either we are for or against the EU. It doesn't have to work that way. Indeed, we can develop cooperation, and we can definitely extend our opportunities to get the most out of it by making more countries out of it. There are already some countries outside, and hopefully more are on their way. It will benefit Sweden and Europe.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-858	Madam President, I would like It is not difficult to keep high-key speech days when the sun shines and there is not a cloud in the sky. But it is when the great words meet resistance and when they start to cost, that our values are tested. But it is also then that it is becoming increasingly important that we are clear with which Sweden and which Europe we want to see. It is when the economic crisis breaks down lives and communities in Greece, Spain and Ireland that the EU's proud words about cohesion and solidarity are tested. It is when democracy is set against the profit-hunting of industry in the TTIP negotiations that it is determined what rhetoric really is worth. It is when refugees arrive on the EU's shores that words of humanity and human rights need to be translated into action. In recent years, the EU's proud statements and fine rhetoric from Commissioners and Prime Ministers have been tested. We note that, unfortunately, the European Union has not passed the test. Once that has been the case, there has been very little that has not been prepared to compromise. As the economy and financial bubbles grew in Europe, shareholders, financial speculators and business peaks were able to reap huge profits. But when the economic cycle turned and the bubbles broke, the bill was sent to Europe's pensioners, women and young people. Banks and financial institutions have been saved, and those who have least created the crises have paid the price. The crisis has broken down societies and lives in Spain, Greece, Ireland and many other European countries. Today, in Spain, almost every second young person is unemployed. In Greece, large parts of the population depend on charity and donate food bags. But Greece has now learned that it is no use donating fruit or dairy products because many Greeks can no longer afford electricity for their refrigerators. When millions of young people are excluded from the labour market and when a whole generation of Greek children are not vaccinated, a dragon sow is sown in Europe for the future. Europe will pay a very high price for today's economic crisis for a very long time to come. Europe cannot be built by means of savings, insecurity, evictions or, for that matter, by increasing supranationality and gaps between citizens and decision-makers. The crisis basically needs a completely different answer. The Left Party believes that we must combat short-term speculation and greed. We want to see a law on bank sharing, a tax on financial transactions and an end to privatisation. When millions of Greeks are thrown out of the health insurance system, it is not reasonable to claim billions in interest and repayments. This requires an orderly discharge of debts for Greece. Madam President, I would like Last week at least 800 people died in the Mediterranean. It's more than a whole Estonia ship. The real death toll can be much larger. When the EU builds higher walls around its Union, men and women, pensioners and children are forced to take increasing risks. It is only through an end to the war in the Middle East and through an active policy of peace that we can prevent people from fleeing. It is only by creating legal ways and safeguarding the right of asylum that we can prevent more refugees from drowning. We need to put pressure on the other Member States of the European Union to respect the right of asylum. The Left Party has repeatedly demanded that it is time for Sweden to suspend its membership fee to the EU in order to put pressure on countries such as Poland and Hungary to shoulder their responsibilities in this way. But we see that the European Union, and unfortunately the Swedish Government too, are taking a completely different path. Authoritarian regimes are made border police. Responsibility for the right of asylum is transferred to countries that are unable to provide protection to refugees, let alone give them legal redress. We are already seeing the consequences of EU agreements with Turkey. Syrian refugees are forced by force to return to the hell of war, are placed in Turkish detention camps or face a closed Turkish border when they try to leave Syria. The domino tray that fell at the Öresund Bridge last winter started a process that now closes the border around Syria. Although we all see what is happening in Turkey, the EU and the Swedish Government want to move on and export the same model. Countries such as Eritrea are already allowed into the political heat of becoming partners in the work to stop refugees. Unfortunately, the EU Minister has even opened up an agreement with Libya – a country with a collapsed government and a full-scale civil war. Madam President, I would like Since the summer of 2013, the EU and the US have been negotiating the TTIP trade and investment agreement. Customs duties, quotas and tariffs are largely already abolished in EU-US trade. Instead, the focus is now on securing business interests and harmonising standards, rules and laws. I believe that few people in this House have reservations about harmonising rules for car crash testing. But what happens when Swedish legislation, with our strong protection for animals, the environment and consumers, is to be harmonised with the US regulatory framework – driven by completely different objectives and interests? However, the main concerns have been raised by discussions on investment protection and ISDS dispute resolution mechanisms. The idea behind ISDS is to protect business and its profits from democratic decisions. This is nothing new; we are already seeing other trade agreements that have introduced this type of dispute settlement mechanism, and we see the consequences. When the National Wages Council of Egypt wanted to raise wages, Veolia Veolia damages from the Egyptian State. Their profits would be reduced. The tobacco giant Philip Morris sued Australia after the country democratically introduced rules for the design of cigarette packets in Australia. When Quebec introduced a temporary ban on fracturing, the Canadian State was sued by the company Lone Pine Resources. Is this the development we want to see in Sweden as well? The opposition to allowing the pursuit of profits to take precedence over democracy is now massive throughout Europe. Nevertheless, the EU continues to negotiate with the US to introduce precisely a dispute settlement mechanism according to the ISDS model – with the support of the Swedish Government. For the Left, it is more important to stand up for democracy and the possibility of making democratic decisions in this House than for the profit hunt of the business community to continue. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for reservations 15 and 18 to be accepted.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-879	Madam President, I would like It is easy to complain about the right-of-occupancy association. If there is a mess in the stairwell, if the flowers on the farm have withered or if the house needs renovation, it is quite tempting to point to someone other than yourself. I run my apartment, and the rest of you do everything around me. But even if everyone is responsible for the order in their apartment, everyone in the property is ultimately dependent on each other. It was DN's editor-in-chief, Peter Wolodarski, who recently likened the European Union to a right-of-occupancy association in this way. Despite all the objections you may have about your neighbours, cooperation is always the better option. It is today 15 days until the UK votes on whether it should leave or stay in the EU. I usually say that Europe would be poor without Britain and that Britain would be poor without Europe. Sweden would also be poor if we lost an ally in the fight for free trade, growth and globalisation. The Liberals' sister party Liberal Democrats are now fighting valiantly for Britain to stay in the EU – unlike, I would say, from parts of the conservative government party that they have been with until not long ago. It is a conservative party that seems to have forgotten that the British islands are part of Europe and, as Winston Churchill said, cannot be broken off from the bedrock and towed to the Canadian or Australian coast. That is why the cause of Europe is also that of the United Kingdom, and the cause of the United Kingdom is that of Sweden. I would like to extend a warm welcome to the House to the new EU Minister, Ann Linde. You're looking forward to it! We had a debate on European policy three months ago, and then it was Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin who took the European debate. When my colleague, Sofia Damm, pointed out that perhaps it would be good to have an EU minister on these issues, Fridolin replied that the time when the EU could be regarded as an individual matter for any minister to deal with was over. It's kind of like having a special minister for Skåne, he said. I am pleased that the government has now come to its senses and that we have Ann Linde in the Chamber – well so! Last week, the European Commission sharpened the tone against the Polish government by means of a new report. In the report, Commissioner Frans noted that the Polish Government has created uncertainty about the principles of the rule of law, which in turn poses a threat to democracy. A government that suddenly changes basic laws creates uncertainty and opens up arbitrariness and thus legal abuse of people. A formal, critical report on Poland's constitutional changes was therefore sent by the Commission to Warsaw, and I am very pleased that something has happened on that front. However, it has been extremely slow. In fact, we must dare to discuss both political and economic sanctions against those countries that trample on the EU's ideals of freedom. It is not only in Poland that the rule of law and the European Union are dismantled and the freedom of the press is blurred. The democratic decline is also continuing in Hungary. It is sad – countries that once left the shackles of Communism and joined the Union because they longed for freedom are now suffocating freedom at home. How can the EU be a global advocate of freedom when people inside the Union so slowly lose these democratic rights and freedoms? What happens to our credibility when Orbán in Hungary praises Putin in Russia and Polish Kaczyński spreads populist provocative myths about refugees in need? We Liberals have been happy to support both a modernised Poland and a modernised Hungary for many years. There are courageous politicians in both countries, many liberals, who are fighting for free trade, for the rule of law, for transparency, for women's right to free abortion and for same-sex marriage. However, these fighters need far more support than they are receiving today. Madam President, I would like I was very surprised when the government launched its campaign slogan for a seat on the UN Security Council. It spoke of an independent voice. I know that the red-greens often strike a blow for alliancelessness, but we in the Liberals believe, on the contrary, that Sweden should work even more within the framework of EU cooperation. We should work more closely with other democracies, not the other way around. The talks of recent months during the refugee crisis have shown that the voice of the EU in the world is at its weakest when the message and the Community are at its weakest – when the voice is allowed to split. Madam President, I would like While populists in the UK and Poland, and even in this House, are screaming about leaving the Union, millions are longing for the freedom that the EU symbolises for them. These are people who live in Ukraine, Georgia and Belarus. There is a desire for a better life and, above all, a freer life, in which they themselves – not others – decide their future. For me, the Eastern Partnership is therefore one of the EU's most important efforts. Europe will expand, because more people deserve to live together in community and democracy. That is why I was disappointed in the Member States of the Union, including the Swedish Government, last autumn. In October, a farcelike election was again held in Belarus. According to the election observers, the vote was not close to meeting basic democratic requirements, and yet Sweden and many other EU countries voted shortly thereafter to freeze the sanctions against several of the belarusian people and companies subject to these sanctions – including President Lukasjenko. We are talking here about Europe's last dictatorship. Of course, it was gratifying that individual political prisoners were released, but it can never, in turn, compensate for the severe repression the majority of the population actually lives under. Lukasjenko will hardly be more European-friendly by this decision. He has nothing to gain from the democratisation that would be required for stronger European cooperation. Instead, the freezing of sanctions risks leading to further repression. During the alliance government, the Swedish Embassy in Minsk became a meeting place for free forces in the belarusian society. We need more courageous freedom projects to support people in dictatorships so that they can think, think and believe freely. It has now been more than two years since Russia entered Ukraine by force. Over half a million children suffer as a result of the war, and 215 000 children are on the run within the country. This is abuse that we should never accept. They are the expression of an old mischievous view of geopolitics. Here, Mr Putin has once again broken the European security regime and interrupted peace. The abuses in Ukraine and earlier in Georgia are attacks on the whole of Europe. The European Council at the end of June will decide on the economic sanctions against Russia, which we imposed after the illegal annexation and the war in eastern Ukraine. Now some of the voices on the European continent are calling for us to lift the sanctions, even though Putin has done nothing to deserve it, quite the opposite. But now that the crisis in Ukraine has widened and extended, we believe that the penalties must also be extended and extended. Today, sanctions are subject to specific territorial barriers. It can be in finance, energy, defence, oil and more. But we Liberals want the sanctions against Russia to be extended to include gas, which is a very important source of income for the Russian Federation and a means of exerting pressure on individual European countries. We have seen Putin turn off the crane to get what he wants in a particularly cynical and unpleasant way. Many European countries have been and are dependent on Russia. Therefore, a new gas pipeline between Russia and Germany is now planned via the bottom of the Baltic Sea. Based on the current state of security policy and the objective of reducing the use of fossil fuels, this is a very dangerous idea. The red lights should blink extremely intensely. Last year, the European Union decided to develop an Energy Union to reduce climate emissions and strengthen the security of supply. It will lead to more indigenously produced energy and to less imported energy. Therefore, I would like to call on Minister Linde to press Prime Minister Stefan Löfven to stop Nordstream 2 and to extend the sanctions to Russian gas as well. Madam President, I would like The threats to Europe come not only from the East. We also see the fear spreading in European big cities through jihadist terrorism, which is a threat to democracy and free society in the same way that left-wing extremism and Nazism have harmed Europe in the past. The terrorist attacks are an attack on all of us. They can happen here, and they are above all global. The funding can come from one source, while the hiding places are located in another country and the attacks are carried out in a third. When threats are international, better international cooperation is needed. That is why we must give Europol better opportunities to create a kind of European FBI in the long term. In order to stop terrorism, the prevention of crime also needs to be strengthened. It is not enough to cooperate only when investigating crimes that have already been committed. Madam President, I would like It is with politics that with the Housing Association. The problems are common and cross-border. That is why, at this most difficult time for Europe, we now need European cooperation more than ever.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-897	Madam President, I would like Thousands of people are losing their lives in desperate attempts to achieve a better life in Europe. Control over the EU's external border is failing, the Dublin Regulation is not being complied with and the Migration Agency announces that the situation is similar to the fact that Sweden now has a land border with Turkey. The Islamic State of Daish continues its to say the least barbaric progress and also establishes itself in the decomposed Libya, only 35 km from Malta and 70 km from Italy. But terrorism reaches closer than that with attacks in Paris, Copenhagen and Paris again. Cameron wins the election in the UK, and it is clear that a referendum on the country's continued EU membership will take place. The economic recovery in the EU is slow, and it is difficult negotiations with Greece. This, Madam President, was the European Union in 2015, the year when the common challenges were enormous, but the answers were neither sufficiently coordinated nor sufficiently robust. Madam President, I would like The report we are debating here today is based on the government's letter on the whole of the EU's activities in 2015. Of course, it is not possible to comment on everything contained in the Government's letter or in the report. In this speech, I will therefore focus on those areas that lie primarily within the remit of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like to highlight in particular the alliance reservation contained in the report on the importance of the Eastern Partnership and the reservation of the Christian Democrats on the EU's foreign and security policy. I therefore request the approval of reservation 7 and reservation 9. Madam President, I would like The EU is and will be the central forum for Swedish foreign and security policy. The EU's strength lies in a foreign policy based on standards and values. As the world's largest economy, the world's largest trading partner and the world's largest donor, the EU has the opportunity to influence world development through a variety of channels. The Christian Democrats want the government to push for a more active, coherent and effective European foreign policy where the promotion of democracy and greater respect for human rights and freedoms are absolute priority. This is perhaps more important today than ever. Unfortunately, the signals from some of the EU Member States are different. The voice standing up for human rights has weakened. We have seen clear signs of this when it comes to EU policy towards countries such as Cuba, Belarus and Eritrea, where issues and demands of democracy and human rights have clearly been put back. Sweden will remain fully prepared to contribute to EU military operations and will be a driving force in the development of EU crisis management capabilities. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should be a driving force within the EU in order to bring about a review of the EU's fighting forces, so-called Battlegroups, who are in constant readiness to participate in a rapid and limited effort. Sweden had a Nordic combat group prepared the first half of 2015. However, the battle groups as such have never been deployed, and as a result the uncertainty about its function has become ever greater. Considerable resources are used to equip, train and keep them in readiness in the various Member States. We Christian Democrats believe that decisions must be taken on the future of these forces. Are they to be given a more active and prominent role? We think so. The world around Europe has not become safer or more stable in recent years, on the contrary. Madam President, I would like As I said, the EU's neighbourhood is anything but peaceful and stable. The new European Neighbourhood Policy will thus be central to an attempt at stabilisation. The neighbourhood policy has become increasingly complex, and there are major differences between the neighbourhood and large differences between our relations with the countries of the East and the South. There are major differences between countries. In our diverse neighbourhood it is not possible to run the approach one size fit all and hope to thereby achieve stability. An increasingly confident and aggressive Russian foreign policy leads to major challenges for many of the countries in the region. A more open economy and free trade with the EU is unfortunately seen by Russia only as a threat to its own power rather than as an opportunity for the region's development towards prosperity and stability. In our alliance reservation on the Eastern Partnership, we stress the importance of strengthening the EU's cooperation with six Eastern European and Caucasus neighbours. The ability of these countries to develop into vital democracies and market economies and make their own foreign policy choices is extremely important for a secure and stable Europe. As far as the southern neighbourhood is concerned, the hope that was sparked in North Africa and the Middle East during the Arab Spring, as we all know, has turned into uncertainty and concern. Tunisia is the best country out of the turmoil and has made democratic changes. But terrorism threatens the security and development of Tunisia, and it urgently needs our support. A key element of the Southern Neighbourhood Policy is that the EU continues to play an active role as a political and economic partner of Tunisia, but also that Tunisia is strongly supported by the EU in strengthening the democratic path they have taken and taking a strong stance against terrorism. It is welcome that the government has decided to open an embassy in Tunis. We Christian Democrats have been doing this for a long time, because Sweden and the European Union have an important role to play in their neighbourhood, there is no doubt. The Islamic State has built its new base in Europe's absolute neighbourhood. Europe was able to act when Gaddafi was to be overthrown. M then the power seemed to run out, and we left the Libyans to their fate. The fall in Libya shows what happens when there is no long-term roadmap. There was no interest in remaining and supporting in a construction process, and today we see the consequences. It is important that the EU now resumes its commitment. Support for the fight against terrorism and democratic development is crucial. Sweden must be a driving force here. Madam President, I would like Earlier this year, in this House, we debated the European Commission's work programme for 2016, a programme called Time for a new era – a somewhat useful headline may seem. But after 2015 it is really high time to start thinking differently, to take a new hold. Today, the refugee situation is one of the EU's greatest challenges. The EU's agreements with Turkey are not unproblematic, and other countries are threatening to close refugee camps if they do not get an agreement with the EU. More and more people are once again taking the deadly route across the Mediterranean, and far too many people are losing their lives on the Mediterranean. And whatever happens in the referendum in Britain, it will lead to a discussion on the role of the European Union in the future. 2016 will be a crucial year. It will be the year in which the Member States will probably have to return in their way to the drawing board, in order to take the new steps that so many of us are calling for. Madam President, I would like Finally, I welcome Minister Linde to the debate and to her new mission. As Birgitta Ohlsson mentioned, I have asked for this function in previous debates. It has been flagged that we do not need a Skåne minister, but now I look forward to a Scanian EU minister and continued debates in this House.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-916	Madam President, I would like I would also like to start by welcoming our new Minister for European Affairs and Trade Ann Linde to the House. Ann will be a strong voice in Europe but not in today's debate when the voice has disappeared. This letter deals not only with foreign policy but also with the whole of the EU's activities for 2015 – a Europe that has not missed and will not lack challenges. As a small, free and democratic country, Sweden depends on global cooperation that can address the common challenges. For those of us who believe in collaboration, the EU and the UN are important platforms. It is gratifying that Sweden retains its position as the second most influential country in the EU. At the same time, the Swedish Government is deeply involved in the UN, where the EU played an important and driving role in the negotiations on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and also made major efforts in the implementation of Resolutions 1325 and others on women in armed conflicts, the Strategic Partnership for Peacekeeping and Crisis Management and the promotion of human rights. It is important to remember what cooperation has meant and that it is actually also possible to change, because, as I said, the Union does not have any challenges. Let me begin with the issue that has characterised the European debate more than any other issue in the past year. The extent of migration has strained cohesion and the willingness to cooperate in the Union. But what the Union needs at this point is precisely more of cooperation. Today we are facing one of the greatest refugee disasters in modern times. This places great demands on the EU. No Member State alone can face the challenges of the refugee crisis, and the EU must now work at three levels at the same time. The EU must work to strengthen borders and combat traffickers. The dangerous and uncontrolled escape routes across the seas must stop. Instead, we must proceed to orderly migration by legal means. We must have a fairer distribution of refugees coming to Europe. It is not good enough for some countries to accept most of those who come while others do not accept their responsibilities at all. The government is working very actively with other like-minded Member States, such as Germany, to get a new and more solidarity-based asylum system in place. Of course, it is also important to ensure that the decisions already taken are implemented. It's this year's big challenge. Finally, we must also combat together the causes of people being forced to flee by ending wars and conflicts and by providing more help in the places where the refugees are. Often it is in neighbouring countries, which have received many men, women and children in large refugee camps. Here, of course, the common foreign policy plays an important role. The crises in the EU's neighbourhood underline the importance of enhanced cooperation to meet the challenges facing the EU. With regard to the crisis in the East, it is crucial that the EU preserves and defends the European security regime, which has been fundamentally challenged by the Russian aggression against Ukraine. The EU has so far managed to respond to Russia's violations of international law in a united and principled manner, not least through sanctions. The crucial thing is that the EU remains united in its Russia policy and that the sanctions remain intact as long as Russia refuses to comply with the Minsk agreement. The EU needs to be more proactive in its common foreign policy, to pursue its interests clearly and to take greater global responsibility. The EU should be an active force for human rights, rule of law and democracy internally as well as externally. The EU should also take responsibility for ensuring that human rights are respected in all international contacts and negotiations. An important part of this is, of course, to involve women more in the work for peace and development. This is one of the challenges facing the European Union. I would add to this the deepening of EMU. A single currency requires more fiscal cooperation. Discussions are currently under way on how this is to be achieved in the future. For us in Sweden, it is obviously important to keep an eye on what we in the EU-28 have in common all the time. The issue of Greece was highly topical last year. It will certainly come back in different ways because it is also a major issue for the Union. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris in January and November last year, the debate on EU security work has intensified. Measures to ensure public safety, counter radicalisation, promote tolerance and non-discrimination, and cooperation with international partners were high on the agenda last year and, of course, this year too. Madam President, I would like In two weeks' time, the UK will vote on whether to leave or remain in the EU. On Midsummer Eve we will know how it has gone. Right now, it looks nastyly even. The UK is an important partner for Sweden in EU cooperation. The UK has the EU's third largest population and second largest economy and is a good ally on issues of open trade and reduction of unproductive agricultural subsidies. It is indeed our hope that Britain will remain a member of the European Union. Brexit is not the only threat to the European Union. Nationalistic and populist forces are growing stronger throughout Europe. It's a threat coming from within. In Poland, for example, the government is in conflict with the EU on the principles of the rule of law. The fundamental values of the European Union, on which it is founded and stands, are threatened from within. Our view of democracy, where freedom of expression and respect for everyone's human rights are inalienable values, is not shared by everyone. Here we need to have a discussion on how the EU will get the order back where human rights are respected and governed. I have raised many problematic issues. I would also like to highlight something that is positive. When we talk about the Union's ability to create prosperity, it is important also to ensure that this prosperity is shared by all. Higher prosperity must be seen and deliver results in people's lives in practice. Otherwise it is reduced to abstract figures. The government has successfully worked to increase the role of social issues in EU cooperation. I welcome the fact that the Commission has launched a consultation on what is known in European languages as a European pillar of social rights. As appointed advisor to Juncker, Allan Larsson has contributed to the design of this. It is important for the EU to create a stronger common social base with a view to greater social inclusion and security. In order to further push for a more social Europe, the Swedish Prime Minister will invite you to a social summit in 2017. In a social Europe, the promotion of growth goes hand in hand with the promotion of social progress, such as equality and equality. In order to create a social Europe, we need to push for a higher level of knowledge of the workforce and help to get into employment. We must, of course, protect employees' rights and work for a level playing field. Equal pay for equal work, regardless of ethnicity or nationality, and social dumping must be countered. We need to work towards better opportunities for women to enter the labour market. There is much to do to improve the EU's work for a social Europe for jobs and sustainable growth. The opportunities are great if we help each other and learn from each other. As I said, Europe does not lack challenges. For those of us who believe that cooperation is better than isolation, just roll up your sleeves and get to work, because work is not missing. With this, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-948	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 14 on sanctions against Russia to be approved. I forgot to do so in my speech earlier. But of course I also want to discuss with Marie Granlund. Our reservation 14 concerns the situation in Russia and sanctions. As I mentioned in my speech, the economic sanctions against Russia will be decided at the European Council at the end of June. The sanctions were imposed after the illegal annexation and the war in eastern Ukraine. Some voices on the continent are calling for the sanctions to be relaxed. We Liberals think you should go another way. We think that they should be tightened up and made tougher in the dialogue on what is happening in Russia right now. It is about the military aggression that Vladimir Putin Russia shows against neighbouring countries and other states of the European Union. But it is also a question of the authoritarian state that characterises the country more and more. I want to know how you reason within the Social Democrats, Marie Granlund. You're also on the EU Board. What is your view of the European Council? Should sanctions against Russia be tightened?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-952	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I raised our view of Russia and Russia's annexation of Crimea. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. We have heard, like Birgitta Ohlsson, that there are countries that are discussing changing their position. That would be unfortunate, because what Russia has done is a clear violation of international law. As Birgitta Ohlsson knows, we will have to come back to this when the summit comes and we can see how other countries stand. I think we should stick to what we have said before.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-955	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my speech that we Liberals want sanctions against Russia to be extended to include gas, which is an important source of income for the Russian Federation and a powerful means of pressure. I would like to know clearly whether the Social Democrats are in favour of the liberal line and whether the Red-Green Government thinks that gas should be included in these sanctions. I would also like to raise another subject to which I hope Marie Granlund can give a brief answer. I left early, even on the same day that Ann Linde took office as EU Minister, a question on the perception of human rights and freedoms in the European Union. I asked whether the new EU Minister, Mr Linde, would consider raising the issue of both political and economic sanctions against those countries that violate and trample on human rights and freedoms, that is, the foundations of the European Union and the Treaty of Lisbon itself. In fact, today I received a written reply from Ann Linde. It would have been best if I could have gotten the answer straight from her now. However, because of the Minister's hoarse vote, we will have to have that debate on another occasion. Hear and marvel, the Minister's reply does not mention sanctions at all, neither political nor economic. She is content to note that a process is currently under way. It is good that there is a process going on. The pressure that can be put on Poland and Hungary and other countries in which it goes to hell to stand up for the EU's ideals is important and good. But we must also be able to have a more fundamental discussion about precisely political and economic sanctions. Why should individual EU countries be able to pocket billions in various grants with one hand – it is regional aid and agricultural aid – while with the other hand they say no to receiving refugees or undermining freedom of the press and other things? I would like to have a discussion. The Social Democrats were previously positive when you were in opposition and said that it was good to sharpen the tone by means of economic and political sanctions. What do you think today when you're in the government?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-960	Madam President, I would like I also mentioned in my speech that it is totally unacceptable for countries to violate human rights and not to follow through on what they have been involved in deciding at various Council meetings. It is rather strange that you have to pay damages if you violate a directive, but if you violate fundamental rights nothing happens. I also said in my speech that we are looking at how to deal with it. I think you should be careful what you do so that you do the right thing. I don't think high tone is the best thing to do. The most important thing at the moment, for example, is that countries honour the commitment they have taken to receiving refugees. In principle, you shouldn't really be able to buy your way out of it. Then we will not solve the human disaster. But if you refuse to do what you've been involved in and decided on, we need to find tools for how to do it. Today, there are not many tools. That is why we need to look at which are the best so that we can achieve real results and make the situation better. As far as Russia and gas are concerned, it is impossible to say anything about that today. Birgitta Ohlsson himself said in her first speech that the debate today is not about extending sanctions against Russia. There are Member States that have rather a reverse attitude; they want to reduce sanctions. That is what the big discussion will be about in the future.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-964	Madam President, I would like The letter that we have on our table also deals with the relationship between government and parliament, the cooperation between them. Since we now have Sweden's new Minister for European Affairs, who has been longed for, in this House, I must mention that we have repeatedly criticised the government for inadequate handling of precisely European issues. Yesterday, the KU made a unanimous statement criticising, among others, the Minister for the Interior for failing to comply with the mandate given to him by the European Parliament's European Council in relation to Frontex. Several ministers were given orders. Can Marie Granlund still my concern about whether this development will continue? Will there be better order of EU affairs and EU management now that the new EU Minister is in place? I would also like to ask Marie Granlund about a few things regarding the migration crisis. It is one of the major issues that has been and continues to be on the table of the European Union. We both agree that the implementation is missing. Why do the Social Democrats not want to support our call for the budget to be used so that it pays to do the right thing and punish itself to do the wrong thing? Why do the Social Democrats not want to use the budget as a means of exerting pressure for more countries to do the right thing and for more countries to take responsibility for the joint and several reception of refugees?
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-967	Madam President, I would like We are facing a huge crisis in terms of refugees and migration. These are terrible things that take place in Syria. The Dublin Convention is no longer working because it is unreasonable for Italy and Greece to take full responsibility. The Swedish government had to start on square one when it took office. Against all odds, we have managed to get decisions in the European Union on a redistribution mechanism, both a permanent and a temporary one. Now it is about moving on and implementing what has been decided. Ulrika Karlsson should know how difficult it is. As I have said both to Birgitta Ohlsson and in my speech: we need to look at the most effective means of exerting pressure. But Ulrika Karlsson knows – that the debate has also had with the Prime Minister – that there is currently nothing to be done about the current long-term budget, and it is also not possible to call back Structural Fund support. On the other hand, I think it is reasonable to review it, in order to press for it to be possible in the future. But at present it is not possible. Then, of course, we also end up in the discussion if we are to be able to buy ourselves free from accepting people who are on the run. Actually, I don't think so. At the same time, however, I realise that there is probably a need for some form of sanctions. But I think everyone would have benefited from not just taking political points but actually understanding how complex and serious the situation is right now.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-971	Madam President, I would like I get a little worried when Marie Granlund talks about taking political points. It is not a political point, but it is an opportunity for a real tool for implementing decisions taken. We all agree that the long-term budget should be a possible tool, but it is years ahead. Changing this with obligations in the long-term budget requires Treaty changes, as unanimity is now required on these issues. However, the question that could have been raised today concerns the Social Fund. There you have 80 billion that you could use here and now. So the question remains. Here and now, if you went tough and Sweden took the lead shirt regarding the importance of implementation, Sweden could push the importance of using the budget. It should punish itself to make mistakes and pay to do the right thing. It is the lack of carrot and the lack of whip that we see the result of. The implementation has not worked. Almost a year ago, it was decided that 160 000 people would be redeployed. But only over 1,000 have been redistributed so far. It's broken down. Then there must be additional tools. I still do not understand the unwillingness to pursue this issue.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-974	Madam President, I would like It was a pity that in the long-term budgetary negotiations, the bourgeois government, in which we had good cooperation with Anders Borg, did not push the possibility of changing Structural Fund support or anything like that. This is not a new question. It's a shame you didn't push when you had the opportunity. Now before is the budget and is locked down for seven years, it is well. I assume that Ulrika Karlsson has noted that the Commission has made a new proposal yesterday or the day before yesterday on fines if it does not accept refugees. But I would like to raise the question of principle once again, whether it is driven by humanity. I am not convinced that the best way is to be able to buy free from the joint reception of refugees who are on the run. I do not know whether it pays to continue the discussion, because the short story lies, with the long-term budget that we have now. It is not possible to call back Structural Fund aid. It is not possible to recover what has been paid out or to change that way. However, it is important to push this forward, and that is what I mentioned in my speech – that we need to review this. However, I do not think that high tone is the best thing to do if you really want to see results and ensure that people on the run get to a sanctuary. And that must be the most important thing for us.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-978	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by welcoming the non-voting minister to the House to listen to the debate that we have around the EU in perspective in 2015. We hope for a speedy recovery, so that we can have a proper debate. Madam President, I would like Europe is our community on this continent. It is a community that faces major challenges and that did so in 2015. Our basic values, which we are talking about from this speaker's seat and in many other places, have indeed been put to the test. We have already talked about this before. It's about solidarity. It is about opportunities to assert the rule of law – our democracy and our freedom, which are at the heart of it – in which so many people dream of participating. We have seen Hungary for several years and are now noting that there is a referendum on refugee quotas. This is a full debate. We have been followed in several Visegrad countries and, most recently, Poland, with what is happening there about the fundamental issues of the rule of law. I see a risk that we will have a new mental wall in Europe. It is important that we work to try to find each other, to overcome the contradictions that are cultivated by different ones in order to test the EU's ability. We are talking about both the southern and the eastern neighbourhood in the report we are now discussing. The southern neighborhood was filled with hope five years ago. Today, the reality is different. This, of course, follows a wave of refugees from wars and conflicts, where we have failed to prevent, failed to build for people's future. On the part of the Center Party, it is important that we meet these developments in a legally secure way, that we unequivocally assert the right of asylum, that we also ensure the EU's external border. We on our part are prepared to look at various forms of what we can call sanctions for those who do not live up to the solidarity decisions we have taken. However, Madam President, let me give a warning in the debate that is going on, because what we do not want to see is that people who have been given their right of asylum in the EU behind the external border are suddenly losing their freedom of movement, the opportunity to move, the opportunity to go to other parts of the European Union. That part, to create some form of captivity in the country in which you have been placed, is a development that we do not want to see. When we talk about the Eastern Partnership – that applies in itself also to the Southern Partnership when we talk about Syria – there is, of course, no doubt that Russia's actions have thrown aside our common security structure: Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea, with the theatre-like so-called referendum that took place. We have seen Moldova, we have seen Georgia, and we risk seeing Georgia again, Madam President, because this summer a referendum will be announced in Abkhazia where we do not really know whether it is only the presidential question that is the election issue. But in South Ossetia it is very clear, where it is about making a Crimea turn, a referendum on joining Russia. It is a little outside the debate and the big headlines. But be gentle! This will, at the same time as the EU is discussing sanctions policy, show us the completely non-existent developments on the part of the Russian side in relation to Ukraine. Russia has not lived up to its commitments there. Reality has not changed. Then, of course, the policy of sanctions should be firm. But don't forget that behind what is going on, there may be a new annexation line, and then it is Georgian territory that may come into play. In this report, we have made very clear the importance of the Eastern Partnership, of the European Union being clear and of the Swedish side being very strong in this context. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 9. It was a joint reservation until I got a little late to the committee. That's why I'm not on that reservation. I acknowledge this openly in front of the House. But I support the very good reservation 9. Madam President, I would like There are high expectations of the EU from its citizens. It is about security and solidarity. Over the past year, we have shown that we are in favour of Article 42(7). It was an important signal. We have had different opinions about how much and what we would do. But it was central for the EU that we responded and that Sweden participated in Article 42(7). The EU should be a global player, and it is important that the discussion that has been going on in 2015 on the EU's new foreign and security policy is taken care of and this year lands well. There are far too many people who see Europe as something to try to divide. But it is important that we do not divide the European Union's voice more than has already happened. We see the significance of the EU. The EU played a role in what happened in 2015 when it decided to reach and contribute to the 2030 Agenda. The EU played a role in achieving the climate agreement in Paris. These are important signals and important results that show that we are making a difference together. Putin's dream, of course, is that we should break up Europe, weaken Europe and divide. We have gone from discussions on grexitis to Brexit. I hope that in both cases we see that we are able to solve together problems in the way that Europe has been built, namely to resolve conflicts and solve problems together at the negotiating table and in court and not on battlefields. I very much hope that the young people of Britain will vote for Britain to remain in the EU when it is time to take a stand on it in their referendum the day before midsummer. It is about their future, but it is also about our future. We know that our challenges cannot be solved by populism or old nationalism. We have seen the results of such policies on the continent of Europe too many times in the past. Let us not do it again, but let us learn from the mistakes. We are getting stronger, we are getting more jobs, we are developing welfare and we are taking steps towards sustainable development within the EU framework. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 9 and otherwise of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-993	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, my voice has betrayed me in my debut in Parliament. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable Members for their congratulations and, in particular, to thank my party colleague, Marie Granlund, for having taken the discussion. I hope for many future debates and constructive discussions on the European Union.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-994	Madam President, I would like We live in a troubled world. There are therefore good reasons to mention something about the European Union in addition to the report we are debating today. It is worth recalling that the EU was founded after the Second World War to contribute to peace. Countries that work together don't fight. So far, Europe has served Europe well. Europe, from being a continent in which constant wars have raged and where world wars have erupted, has become a continent which has largely lived in peace. Solutions have been found that are based at the negotiating table and have not resorted to arms. Much more good has also come through the EU. I would like to mention in particular the Eastern Partnership, which was created on the initiative of Sweden and Poland in order to support democratic development in the former Soviet states to the east. The Eastern Partnership has so far been successful. It has supported developments in Ukraine vis-à-vis Russia and hopefully helps to find peaceful solutions within the region as a whole. Several of the Eastern Partnership countries have signed association agreements with the EU. Mr President, I would like to Today we need more cooperation and not less. Democracy is in many places under threat and human rights are hard-tested. The countries of Europe can influence developments in a positive way through their cooperation in the European Union. Each of the Member States is too small to influence international developments and developments in the neighbouring countries. But together, the EU can make a positive contribution. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight here the work of the European Union in relation to Russian aggression against Ukraine. As you know, Russian aggression began when voices were raised in Ukraine in favour of EU membership. The Russian answer was a blank no. It was an aggressive response and has led to the occupation that is still under way. However, Ukraine is still interested in the EU, and the EU, for its part, has acted in a strong and peaceful way through economic sanctions against Russia. These sanctions could not have been implemented by the 28 Member States individually, but are based on membership. Mr President, I would like to Of course there are problems within the EU. No organization is so good that it can't get any better. Sweden, like all other countries, has an opportunity to influence the development of the EU. We have this opportunity through the Commission, through the Councils of Ministers and through the European Parliament. It's the formal roads. Informally, of course, there are also opportunities through participation in different networks and research. There are many current issues that are important for the EU today. I am thinking, for example, of TTIP, the EU-US trade agreement, which can lead to larger markets, more companies and more jobs. Another test for the European Union, which I think it is important that we do not get caught up in, is the issue of migration. But here, too, I am convinced that the European Union can find a solution with common forces that can serve both the right to asylum and humane treatment well, Mr President. It will take time, but I am sure it will be possible – just as the EU has managed not to fall into the fold of war. Finally, I would like to say that Europe has served Europe and its Member States well. I sincerely hope that the British vote will lead to England remaining in the European Union.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-1004	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservations 13 and 31 to be endorsed in this report. European history is full of times when developments have taken a different turn from those intended by those in power. 2016 can also be a year of change where old truths are challenged and where the EU elite in Brussels is finally held accountable for decades of mismanagement. The referendum in the Netherlands in April and its resounding rejection of an association agreement with Ukraine were the first indication that everything will no longer go the way of Brussels. The fact that EU federalists here in Sweden and in the rest of Europe then speak with a great deal of contempt for the people and believe that the referendum should be disapproved certainly does not help the interests that want to see a federal Europe. Rather, it shows their real face and a totalitarian attitude. They are not interested in a free-thinking people who choose their own path; instead, they want to guide development at all costs and shape society according to their own liking. Even in the recent Austrian presidential elections, the old ruling parties had to take a step backwards for two in the context of new options. Even in this case, the Austrian electorate was tired of the fact that the description of reality presented was not in line with its own. That is why something new was sought. The Austrian situation led the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, to go as far as threatening the EU boycott of Austria on the Austrians voted for the EU's displeasing President. All of this is very telling of the lack of respect for democracy and the will of the people that permeates the whole monster union that is increasingly developing into the United States of Europe. This six-monthly issue for the European Union is otherwise the forthcoming UK referendum on 23 June to regain freedom or remain as a vassal state under Brussels. A British withdrawal would be more or less a disaster from the EU's perspective, as it would open up for future withdrawals and show that the future does not exist within a European superstate, but within free and independent nation states, where the decision-makers make decisions as close to the people as possible and with the best interests of the people in mind. Brexit would of course be very welcome, and of course Sweden will also be holding a referendum on the same issue. Recent polls have shown that more and more Swedes are beginning to question the construction of European monsters, Mr President. Next six months' Presidency, under Slovak leadership, is also a future light for those who want to see more democracy and less totalitarianism. Slovakia and its government have been a sharp critic of various EU decrees. The future will tell us what this means in practice, but we must hope that Slovakia puts its mark on the European Union during the Presidency. The fact that even the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, has woken up and recently realised that the EU has a cool popular support is also telling that new winds are blowing in Europe. It is also symptomatic, Mr President, to see the EU's inability to deal with the problems that arise in the wake of its own actions. One telling example here is the breakdown of the Schengen Agreement and how the lack of external and internal border controls has led to close to systemic collapse in a number of areas. Since the EU moves its own positions in classical terms to solve the crises it itself has experienced in creating is nothing new under the sun but follows the same old pattern. In the end, it is about the citizens of the EU Member States being tired, for example, of illegal immigration, top government and politicians who do not defend the interests of the people. The peoples of Europe are simply no longer buying the false reality that is being pumped out of the European Union. The monster colossus built on the claim that it is democratic and promotes dialogue between different positions is rather a modern totalitarian creation in which those who deviate from the only approved and right path are apostates to be fought. Mr President, I would like to It is time to put an end to this federalist development. Let 2016 therefore be a year where new, fresh winds blow and air the poor, totalitarian smell of federalists and EU village skaters. Let 2016 be a year when the first steps towards a free and independent Sweden and Europe are taken and when power is given back to the peoples of Europe.
i-FeMxiDV88jGg4B5ehZhYgb	Mr President, I would like to In this case, the Parliament will examine the Commission's proposal for the publication of income tax data for certain companies and branches. The Left Party has for a long time been pushing for public country-by-country accounting for multinational companies, and now the Commission has finally put forward a proposal on this. It is surprising that the other parties do not want to debate this important issue or believe that it should be decided at European level. Today, ten times more tax evasion from aid countries disappears than they receive from aid. These are funds that could have been used to strengthen health care, education and infrastructure in vulnerable countries. Combating tax evasion is important both from the point of view of democracy and from the point of view of development. Public transparency in the tax practices of multinationals is important in order to detect dubious and illegal tax planning. In particular, public transparency is an important prerequisite for journalists and other non-governmental organisations that work against corruption and human rights, among other things, to be able to detect and pay attention to the questionable and illegal activities of companies. They should be able to examine how, where and if companies pay taxes. In my opinion, the transversal nature of the problem is obvious and cannot be sufficiently addressed by the Member States themselves. I also believe that the establishment of a list of non-cooperative jurisdictions is a key measure for a well-functioning exchange of information. The main argument put forward by the other parties in the Committee on Taxation and the Committee on Civil Liberties is that it does not want to allow the Commission to draw up a list of countries to be placed on the list of tax havens, but to leave them to decide for themselves. This would in all likelihood mean that countries could veto the whole proposal in this way. It is better, then, to pass the matter on to the Commission for decision and for the establishment of fair and objective criteria for what is to be considered a tax haven. I therefore believe that the proposal as a whole complies with the principle of subsidiarity. The Left considers that the Commission's proposal is important in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, although we think it should be more far-reaching proposals on several points. Public transparency must be strengthened, and the threshold for which companies have to account is far too high. Only companies with a turnover of EUR 750 million need to account, which means that about 90% of companies will escape. Another weakness of the European Commission's legislative proposal is that companies only have to report for activities in EU countries and tax havens. Despite these weaknesses, the issue must be decided at a higher level than the national one. The next step must be that the Swedish Government and other Member States are actively working to tighten up the proposals, so that we have an effective tool in the fight against global tax evasion. That is why I would like to support the Left Party's reservation.
i-6cf095eae8e05b2d-1022	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is a huge problem. It's about securing tax revenue. It is a question of multinational companies having to do the right thing, that is to say that what they have actually earned in a country should also be valued for. It can also lead to unfair competition against medium-sized and smaller companies when multinationals are not doing well. Work is currently under way within the OECD, where Sweden and the EU are actively involved. There is a measure called No 13 which deals with country-by-country reporting. Multinational companies must report, among other things, how much tax they have paid. The information shall be exchanged between the Member States. It is then primarily the tax authorities who examine the information to see that it has gone right, and if it has not done so, you can intervene. Today, 39 countries are participating in this cooperation, and we are very keen for the crowd to grow, for there to be more. At the same time, EU work is under way. First of all, it was in line with the work of the OECD, but new proposals have now emerged that go beyond the work of the OECD. This is, first and foremost, a matter of disclosure in the country-by-country reporting. It already exists but is to be made public, according to the proposal. It is not this part that goes against the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of proximity, in the European Union. I would like to point out that what we are trying today is not the main issue, but is whether this issue is contrary to the principle of proximity, i.e. whether the EU has the power to take decisions here or whether it is the Member States that are to take decisions. This part does not run counter to the principle of subsidiarity. There may be benefits to this and can be good for developing countries where there is a lot of tax evasion. There may also be disadvantages. One such disadvantage is that you can misread the information. There are different tax systems, and if you do not understand them, you can get the wrong picture. The Commission's proposal is not sufficiently detailed, which may give a false picture. But the main objection is that the work of the OECD can be put at risk, i.e. country-by-country reporting. The most important thing is, however, that the tax authorities receive the information so that they can get to the cheaters. The risk is that some countries will be able to access the public country-by-country reports, and then they do not need to join the OECD cooperation. It is a disadvantage, because the most important thing is that this work takes place globally. Of course, it is very positive that it is happening in the EU, but we want to get to the cheats globally. They should not be able to hide outside the EU. It is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity to delegate to the European Commission to decide on a list of countries that do not comply with the standard of good tax administration, which is the second issue at issue here. This is a matter for the Member States to decide in the Council, preferably the Tax Council. It is also against the principle of proportionality that we go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives. We are afraid of the harmonisation of tax rules. Even if it is only a question of the tax procedure, it is currently the competence of the Member States. It is important that we keep tax matters at national level, because there are so many differences between countries.
