i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-2	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small country with large international companies. These are companies that under 50, 100 sometimes 150 years have placed Sweden on the map. They have made inventions, created wealth and given people good jobs. And they have made many Swedes feel proud. A successful business community is the foundation of Sweden's welfare country and is an important part of the Swedish model. The fact that Sweden is small also underlines the role of the outside world for companies to grow big. There's the market out there. There are also competitors. Then you have to choose how you want to look at what is now happening out in the world. Of course, you can rest in the fine Swedish growth rates, and mostly settle down, or you can see that the big world that surrounds our small economy right now is unusually filled with economic, political and geopolitical risks, which worry both people and markets. It is enough to mention the United Kingdom, the United States, the Eurozone, Japan, Russia and Brazil – but also Norway and Finland – to realise that a good economy is not self-evident. Swedish economic policy should now be about how Sweden can equip itself stronger for problems that can come in the future. It should be about how our competitiveness can develop, how spending can be kept in check and what new reforms should be planned. Right there is a fundamental difference in the view of the Swedish economy. The Prime Minister looks at the high growth rate and the low unemployment rate among the well-educated and finds it surreal that not all Swedes see developments moving in the right direction. The rest of us see growth, but also other things. We see that public expenditure is increasing where it should be reduced and that employment among new people in Sweden is decreasing when it should increase. The government's most recent analysis so far can be found in the spring budget on p. 131. There, exclusion is estimated to increase to 1 million people by 2020 at a cost of SEK 77 billion. I find that surreal. With 4% growth you can hide a lot of bad policies. In the same way that all the careful buyers of housing are now asking themselves whether they will be able to cope with the housing bill, even if the interest rate is 4%, a responsible Minister of Finance should ask himself whether we will be able to cope with these public expenditures even if growth is not 4%. Madam President, I would like The government is mismanaging the responsibility for the Swedish economy in three important areas. Firstly, the so-called cooperation government is not a reform government. If Sweden is to cope with the integration challenges that follow in the wake of the refugee crisis, it cannot be allowed to take 8 years before even one in four new arrivals is self-sufficient, or 15 years before even one in three is self-sufficient. It's urgent now. If we make mistakes in the coming formative years, we will regret it for decades. In more than one in three Swedish municipalities, unemployment among foreign born is over 30 per cent. It has risen from one in ten municipalities five years ago. Then not all those who came to Sweden last year are included in the statistics. Even today, the unemployment rate of non-European born is four times higher than that of those born here. Sweden has tried the alienation and dependency path before. Don't do that again! The second major area of reform should be housing policy. The government invited the Alliance to housing talks last winter. But if you want to make big deals, it is not enough to be many parties. There must also be a great deal of content and a clear direction of travel. The government didn't. They just wanted the deal. Yesterday it became clear to us that what the government has in mind is simply not good enough. The government does not want to liberalise beach protection, not reduce national state interests that prevent municipalities from building, do not remove county boards as chief judges, do not reduce the number of appeals, do not change the rules for new nature reserves, do not allow freer secondary leasing and do not reduce the migration taxes for them under 65. And all that they did not want to do would not be financed by reducing pointless building subsidies. That's why the Alliance said thank you, but no thanks. Sweden has sometimes made historical reforms, such as those referred to in terms of the pre-reform and post-reform times. The pension reform is one of those. It is also likely to be the migration arrangement. But we don't need a big deal to investigate the beach cover again. It is often said that ambitious governments may suffer from reform fatigue after hard work. This government gives that concept a whole new meaning. It's too tired to be able to reform. Madam President, I would like Secondly, the government does not understand the scope of the Swedish school's problems. Many schools in Sweden are good. Many students are also doing well. But for others, it's a disaster. Every seventh student leaves comprehensive school without upper secondary school qualifications. Of the children who come to Sweden after school, there are even more, more than half. We know from social research that no children get so bad from leaving the ninth grade without full grades as the vulnerable children, those who have had a tough start from the beginning. Many municipal schools are of course excellent, but a v the 50 worst schools in Sweden are 44 municipal. Nevertheless, there is only one school question that the government wants to talk about – the exact amount of surplus a free school can have. You don't talk about the quality of education or how we best stop the bad schools. The government is against the parents' right to choose – and opt out – school but pretends to worry about some free schools' profit and loss accounts. When the Prime Minister says that 60 000 Swedish children are for sale on the stock exchange, he is contemptible towards the school choices of thousands of Swedish families, and he issues a political ban on those who work in Swedish free schools. But the worst is the ill-chosen cynicism in his parable. There are many children in the world who are really exposed to disgusting commercial child trafficking. And would it really be as the Prime Minister says – that children are for sale – it is to be hoped that he would act a little more forcefully than waiting for the outcome of an investigation that will come in the autumn. Madam President, I would like Thirdly, the government's economic policy is detrimental to Swedish business. The clearest example of this right now is the government's idea of forcing all employers to pay 25% of sick leave over 90 days. It is incomprehensible for a number of reasons, including the fact that the government that tore up the time limits in health insurance, despite increasing sick leave, now wants to impose additional costs on all employers, even though nothing suggests that it reduces sick leave. The government should take the impression of the harsh criticisms of the referral bodies and withdraw the proposal. The most serious thing is that small private companies will suffer from economic uncertainty. The government's proposal may be cost neutral if all sick leave is combined with all employers, but for an individual small company the consequences can be devastating. Will more people really have the guts to hire another one? If, however, the government wishes to spend more of the cost of sick leave on the employer, it should be limited to the public sector alone. There sickness absence is a much greater problem than in private companies. There are big employers. They have many employees and entire human resources departments. It would be nice if politics were to set an example. If the government is convinced of good results, then show it first in the activities s if the policy itself is responsible for! Finally, Madam President. One must be able to make at least three demands on a serious government – regardless of color: The government must understand what is happening in the outside world and how it affects Sweden. The government must understand the problems we have here in Sweden. The government must have a plan for Sweden's future. In the Alliance, we learned for eight years that it is difficult to rule, that no government is flawless. But we also learned that you need a plan, an idea of where Sweden is going and how we get there. The plan presented by the Moderates does not contain secret ingredients that in a magic spell solve all problems. There's no such thing. But the plan is connected and has a direction. It is about a harsh responsibility for Sweden's economy being the key to a long-term sustainable policy. It's about zero tolerance to bad schools, no matter who drives them and whether the students want to become a nuclear physicist or a chemistry teacher or want to run a dry cleaner. Our plan is that work and effort should always pay off. We want increased demands in benefit systems, increased incentives to work and lower taxes on low incomes. It should always pay to go from social security to work. And the plan is about growth throughout Sweden, a good business environment, so that more people want to start a business and so that more people can get jobs in them. Last but not least, our plan is about the insecurity and crime that threaten freedom in everyday life. We need to have more police officers and take an uncompromising stand for all those who live in vulnerable areas where the mob thinks it's the boss. You don't have to like our plan. But as the government now governs through collaboration groups, coordinators, process leaders, councils and delegates, the government devalues the credibility of Swedish politics's ability to first see the problems and then do something about them.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-34	Madam President, I would like The old parties have put Sweden in a very serious position with segregation, exclusion, division and a sky high unemployment among foreign born, especially among foreign born. This can be illustrated in several ways, for example by the fact that foreign born people account for more than half of total unemployment. This means, in concrete terms, that without this deeply irresponsible immigration policy, yes, then the government's employment target for unemployment in the EU by 2020 would actually have been achieved. Instead, the goal seems increasingly unrealistic, almost utopian, and is being sawed along the ankles by independent bodies and expert authorities, in fact almost by the Ministry of Finance and the ministers themselves. There are at least 55 so-called no-go zones where society has basically surrendered. Civil protection, ambulances, home services and even public transport do not venture into these areas. The police's monopoly of violence has been broken and replaced by gangsters and petty villains. I want to be clear about two things. Firstly, we do not blame this situation on the immigrants who have come to this otherwise amazing and beautiful country – some of the m, yes, but certainly not the majority. We blame this situation on irresponsible politicians from the seven other parties who have been allowed to wreak havoc in this House for too long and have taken decisions completely without impact assessment, without the slightest respect for the will of the majority of the people and without the slightest restraint to rational and pragmatic thinking. It's not their fault. It's your fault. Secondly, the situation of such massive immigration far exceeds what Sweden has a reasonable capacity to deal with and absorb has not arisen out of thin air. It has arisen through conscious political decisions taken in this House. In fact, there happens to be a connection between political decisions and the consequences there. If the stubbornness of a fool wants to drive the western world's most demanding immigration policy, then the result will also be the result. Madam President, I would like This total lack of self-awareness and self-criticism disturbs me enormously. There was a situation that we had not planned for and we could not have foreseen this, we have been told quite a few times. Not to blame when you did something stupid or wrong, I learned from my father when I was five or six years old. The failure to take responsibility for their own actions and decisions demonstrates a particularly flagrant lack of political leadership, as this government has demonstrated for almost two years. We need to do several things, Madam President, in order for Sweden to come back in a positive trend with optimistic hopes for the future. We almost need a total stop for extra-European asylum and family migration to Sweden for the foreseeable future. It is no stranger to interpret the international conventions and our own laws in such a way that everyone has the right to apply for asylum, but no one has the right to choose the country of asylum freely. That's how it works. Sweden is not the first so-called safe country, with less than that there is war in the Nordic countries or possibly in the Baltics. It is not good enough to be satisfied that there are only between 500 and 1 000 asylum seekers per week. The figure should be zero. Given the current situation, the Swedish Democrats want total border controls, not partial ones, preferably together with our Nordic neighbours, in order to maintain the mobility and dynamics of the Nordic labour market. It is not good enough, as the responsible minister, to claim that this is a police matter. It's not. It is purely a political issue. Again: This blame-from-sig mentality seems to be built into the DNA of the Social Democrats. We must also tackle the problem of illegal immigrants and those who hide from government decisions. We will greatly increase the resources for deportation and deportation of those who reside in the Swedish Empire without permission. The organiser and willfully assists in hiding illegal immigrants shall be tried for this in a court of law. Anyone who has lied, threatened or bribed to a residence permit shall be deprived of it and expelled immediately. And, of course, the person who is not a Swedish citizen and commits a crime has voluntarily renounced the right to reside in Sweden. I am absolutely convinced that I am not the only one to be upset when you read about cases where other states' citizens commit very serious crimes in Sweden, but where the prosecutor is not even able to raise the issue of expulsion. That is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like If we can get to grips with this, then we can also start to look up and see something later, start acting and not just react, become constructive and seriously build a community. We see not only problems in these times, we also see opportunities in the future. We want to see, in many different ways, the pursuit of community, community, participation, solidarity and belonging to the concept of citizenship. We do not want specific solutions in labour market policies based on origin. We certainly do not want segregated tax scales on an ethnic basis, as has been proposed. We do not want lower wages for new arrivals. The fact is that we do not want lower wages for anyone, but we want total tax exemption for all those who have low wages, regardless of their origin. We want an effective employment policy that benefits all groups that are excluded from the labour market. Reduce employers' contributions significantly for smaller companies! Say no to the S ocial democrats' proposal to increase the cost of sick pay for those who employ! On the contrary, let the State bear a greater burden and the companies a considerably smaller one! Moreover, say no to the whole socialist doctrine that it is politicians who create jobs, and let us instead offer the right tools for the private sector to grow! Let us invest in programmes that we know produce results, in practical apprenticeships and at the University of Applied Sciences Authority, rather than in fluid education at Södertörn that no one in the business world benefits from. Premiere the students who study to a shortage profession and reward the higher education institutions that focus on quality and working life rather than quantity. Madam President, I would like In my world, a person can only be judged by two parameters: one's motive and one's actions. If you follow Swedish law and Swedish law, learn the Swedish language and, as far as possible, work and do right and contribute to our common prosperity, then the way is clear and clear to those who want to become a full member of this proud and ancient nation, with its very diverse history of war, famine and misery, but also of innovations, trade, engineering, tolerance and equality, respect for each other and love for the very highest good: our freedom. Madam President, I would like I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-50	Madam President, I would like When we come together for this debate, Europe and the world hold the spirit, but not because of our debate, but because, on Thursday, Britain goes to the polls to determine what its own, but probably also Europe's immediate future will be. The choice is between leaving or staying in our European Union. If our English, Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish friends are chosen to remain in the Union, we are clearing Europe's skies from a cloud of unrest. It gives us the strength to focus on taking on the others: a climate threat that needs to be met, an economic growth that needs to be strengthened and a migration policy that needs to be shared. Brexit or Bremain affects Sweden fundamentally but is something that we can to a very small extent influence ourselves. For a small country like Sweden, that is the reality. There are more things that affect us and our economy than we can influence ourselves. We'll have to live with that. It becomes all the more important, then, to really make sure to do the homework and make the reforms that we actually have influence over ourselves. We must build Sweden as strong as we can with the tools we have. Sweden has a great need for reform in the coming years. Central areas of society must be fundamentally reformed. If Sweden is to continue to be one of the richest welfare countries in the world, we must tackle the imbalances we see emerging primarily in the labour and housing markets. Madam President, I would like In the 1990s, it was only after a major economic crisis that Sweden could rally to implement the necessary reforms. That was when we changed many of the welfare activities, introduced today's fiscal framework and got an independent Riksbank. My goal and that of the Center Party is that the crisis should not be called upon to strike before we can get together and implement the reforms that Sweden needs. As far as the housing market is concerned, I cannot say without sadness that now was not the time for the reforms that Sweden needs. There was no breeding ground for changing taxes and renting in new production and significantly cutting the regulations that hamper Swedish construction. Instead, we have seen today how the government presents a long list of marginal changes and also a continued expensive, poor and unison-saw subsidy policy. I'm sorry about that. The labour market must also change. We must lower the thresholds so that more of those who do not get into work today are given a chance. We need to create more jobs overall and increase mobility. We need to get away from the rigidity that means that those who are currently in the labour market work late, work weekends and wear themselves out while those who are outside are not working at all. A new, developed Swedish model could be inspired by the best of, among other things, Germany's successful apprenticeship systems, the UK's impressive job creation and Denmark's mix of flexibility and security. Here the government's initiatives shine with their absence. Instead, taxes on young people's jobs are being increased and changes are being made to health insurance, which are actively raising the thresholds for those who already find it difficult to enter the labour market. At the same time, uncertainty is created for the small companies in the elections and the qualifications if they are to dare to hire or not. The conclusion of this inaction can be seen in the government's own spring budget bill. In four years' time – after four years of what appears to be a boom – the government itself estimates that the situation on the Swedish labour market will be worse than it is today: higher unemployment, lower employment rates and increased exclusion. That's not good enough! Madam President, I would like The draft budget I stand here to defend, which the Center Party has put on the table of Parliament, is called Responsibility for the Future. Sweden needs precisely this: responsibility for the future. We need a sense of responsibility for social problems here and now, while not losing perhaps the most important thing in an open, tolerant and successful society: the belief in a better future, an optimism of progress and a desire for reform and improvement. While in our draft budget we are giving the police and other law enforcement authorities substantial contributions – 2 000 new police – we are making sure to open up entrepreneurship through entry companies where you can run your entire business in the same application. At the same time as we take steps to mitigate the major cost increases in health insurance and a – checkout, Spotify, Klarna and other fast-growing Swedish companies meet and ensure that we get better rules for employee options and tackle other issues that are important for these new job creators to stay and develop in Sweden. In the same breath as we note that some of the Swedish migration and integration systems have survived themselves and become almost absurdly cost-driven, we make sure to propose substantial, robust reforms so that the work line can apply to all the working people in our country, regardless of whether you were born here 19 years ago and have just taken the student or if you came here yesterday from war Syria. Sweden must meet the double challenge of rolling up its sleeves and solving the problems we see here, and now we retain confidence in the future and optimism. Madam President, I would like There are some basic truths on which we must base Sweden's development and Sweden's economic policy. First of all, we need to create more jobs throughout Sweden – and the job creation potential in our country is in the small and growing companies. The new jobs are not emerging in the public sector. They don't come in the big companies already. It is the small and growing that should go from small to large. That's where investments mean more employees on the payroll. We have long been drumming the mantra that four out of five new jobs come in the small and growing companies with up to 50 employees. I have seen indications that we need to review that figure and that mantra. It's more like nine out of ten new jobs in more and more parts of the country. That is why we must constantly see the development potential and the growth potential of small businesses and have it first and foremost when we put forward our political proposals. Secondly, Sweden needs more green tax exchange where increased environmental taxes are exchanged for reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. In the Center Party's draft budget, we are moving forward with further proposals in this area. It is well over 20 billion in taxes that are raised on environmentally damaging activities and where we krona for krona spend it on reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It's good both for the environment and for jobs. Thirdly, Madam President, we must keep the economy in order all the time. In the coming years, years of prosperity, we see how deficits will increase. We see how more and more of the steering years and guidelines we have had to keep our economic policy rigidly and responsibly abandoned by the government side: the surplus target, the crown for the crown and the expenditure ceiling. In various ways, the rules of the game that will ensure that confidence in Swedish economic policy is maintained in the long term have either departed or been tricked. We can't have that. The Alliance and the Center Party point out another far more responsible path. Madam President, I would like I request approval of the Center Party's reservation 3.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-70	Madam President, I would like When people look at Sweden from the outside, they see a country with a good economy and a boom and a country that has gone through the financial crisis stronger than many other countries. But behind this are dark clouds waiting, and we have a government and a country that are poorly equipped for tomorrow and for what is waiting around the corner. As a small open economy, we depend on what happens in our world. We depend on developments in the US, the EU and China. What is happening around the world affects Swedish companies and therefore also Swedish tax revenues. It is the basis and the starting point for keeping order in the state finances. That is why it is so serious that Magdalena Andersson is now borrowing in a boom and is breaking the fiscal framework. In a situation where the Riksbank conducts a highly expansive monetary policy, the government chooses to gasse on expenditure. This means that Sweden is very poorly equipped on the day it starts to blow on the international markets. This, in turn, means that we have limited opportunities to safeguard the core of welfare – school, care and care – because in the next crisis we have limited resources and have not saved in the barns. It is clear that the government lacks a plan and lacks an active policy to create sustainable public finances. When the Government's own expert authority, the Council of Finance Ministers criticises the Government for not doing anything about the running costs, at the same time the Government chooses to spend money on high-speed trains, even though we know that this project endangers the finances of the state and also crowds out other infrastructure that is very urgent around our country. The government also takes the opportunity to give a clear mandate to the Social Insurance Agency to tighten the assistance allowance and strike straight as a wedge at those with the greatest need for the core of welfare. Madam President, I would like Sweden is facing increasingly fierce competition. Globalisation means that we must compete with other countries and that Swedish companies are competitive in a way that we have not seen before. It's all over our country. When Spotify recently warned against the dysfunctional housing market and the difficulty of attracting competent staff, we as politicians should take it seriously. Unfortunately, the government is now facing the dysfunctional housing market with inadequate reforms that make us not get all the way forward. Unfortunately, the need for attractive tax rules for smaller companies is not met with anything but silence. From the Liberals' side, we say very clearly: We want to see major reforms for more housing and reforms that enable smaller companies to attract key people. Madam President, I would like The budget now on the table is also largely unfair. I believe in a society where it pays to educate, pays to take responsibility and pays to work. With clinical precision, the Red-Green Government is now looking to raise taxes in general and not least for those people – midwives, first teachers and industrial workers – who will now, after the budget, pay government taxes. These are people who have not previously paid government tax but who are now going to pay government tax. There are 100,000 people around our country who, with the government's policy, will now become high-income recipients of the government's rhetoric. Is it fair and reasonable that a first teacher and a midwife should not be allowed to keep more than half of the last hundred? I don't think so. Madam President, I would like We are seeing a new unemployment emerging. Those who are unemployed today are usually a person who has never been in the labour market. It is a person who risks getting caught up in a long-term dependency on benefits. It is a person who is in danger of falling far out of the labour market and of ever entering the labour market in order to show his feet and gain a network and a sense of belonging. The debate sometimes gives the impression that this is an immigrant problem. But if you go a little deeper into the statistics, you can see that it is above all a problem for those who have a low level of education, whether they are born in this country or come here from another country. About one in three of those with short education have a job in Sweden. That is a figure which is alarmingly low and which we must do something about. In the light of the fact that we are now seeing strong immigration where many people with low education come to our country, this calls for great thought among us politicians. For those with low qualifications, the labour market is now quite closed. It is because we have very few simple jobs in our society. They have been rationalized with conscious or unconscious thought around Swedish society. Nurses have been replaced by nurses, and nurses have been replaced to take two examples from the public sector. From the Liberals' side, we propose very clearly that there is a need for more simple jobs into the public sector in the core of welfare with care, school and care. It creates new ways into the labour market for people and also means that teachers, nurses and doctors can spend less time on administration and focus on what they are trained to do. But the public sector is not enough. We need to ensure that it is created and stimulate the emergence of a larger service sector, a private labour market where more simple jobs are emerging. From the Liberals' side, we have proposed a new form of employment – we call it starting – with lower entry salary and lower costs to hire. It is fully in line with what most and more or less all expert organisations point out as what needs to be done in order for more people to enter the labour market. It is also a question of reforming the Employment Service. People today feel that that authority does not live up to its name, and they feel that it does not provide enough jobs. It is our political task to ensure that labour market policies are reformed with the clear aim of bringing more people to work. Madam President, I would like At this point we have a government that refuses to see reality as reality. The rhetoric is very much about the fact that they are now coming to our country, and all political focus is on having fast track for newly arrived academics. That's a very good suggestion. But it is completely inadequate because most people who come to our country have a low level of education and do not have an engineering or medical degree from Syria with them in their luggage. Our political responsibility is, of course, to have a policy for everyone and also for the people who come to our country today. We see very clearly that the government's policy is inadequate. Out of 32,000 trainee positions, it became like that 200. So far, we haven't seen much of the 90-day guarantee. On point after point, we see how the government's employment policy is completely inadequate. As if it were not enough, it is chosen to propose a sickness tax that will make it even more difficult for those who find it difficult to enter the labour market to do so when employers, private and public, will have greater cost responsibility for those who have a medical history. Madam President, I would like Liberals give priority to school. Nothing is more important than an education for everyone's ability to grow. It also happens to be the most important long-term for our country to grow and for us to be competitive. It is also the most important thing to create a society that stays together and where all people get the chance. We will fully seize the potential of all people and give everyone the chance. I note that the debate often talks about the importance of peace and quiet in school. When I listen to the government, I realise that what the government means by this is that there is a need for a stop to reform so that there is peace and quiet in school at administrative level. But think– I always thought that peace and quiet in school should primarily be about peace and quiet for the children so that they can learn and concentrate in school. Now we see a government that is completely tired of reform in general, not least in terms of education. It takes too little initiative to create order. A few days ago, one was distressed when one learned of the sentence that recently came against the school that had shut down a student who had threatened other students with murder. It shows that we need to go further in terms of legislation in order to create order in school so that all children can learn. When the government chooses to invest money in renovating schoolyards, we liberals choose another way. We are investing in extended schooling requirements for newcomers, more first teachers in exclusion areas, a Order and Order Commission and a clear knowledge requirement in school. We do this because we know that the school is the most important thing for Sweden and because we have a passionate belief that the class trip begins in the classroom. Madam President, I would like Order and order in the finances of the state are the basis for us to be able to safeguard welfare on the day it starts to blow on the financial markets. However, financial order is not enough; we also need to take clear steps to reform the housing market and the labour market and to make school a clear priority. We do so in the Liberals' budget, and I therefore support the reservation that the Liberals have left in committee.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-93	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 – the Christian Democrats' reservation. The day has become slightly longer and the night a little shorter in slightly more than calendar terms since we last debated our bill. One of the most important proposals of the Christian Democrats in our spring motion is now becoming a reality: the impact tax on nuclear power should be speeded up in order not to effectively phase out nuclear power. Five parties have agreed on this, and to invest in renewables, in a broad energy deal across the block. It creates long-term rules of play, not only for power producers but for the entire industry that depends on stable electricity supply. We already see, as a direct result of the agreement, how decisions are taken on crucial investments in nuclear power. I am pleased that the Christian Democrats could contribute to a good settlement for Sweden. It was lavish made by all parties who hit it. Questions that are by nature long-term, everything else equal, serve on broad deals. It concerns the fiscal framework, where talks are held. It would have been good if we had reached each other also in a broad housing policy settlement. But it finally became apparent in the talks with the government and the Left Party that a sufficient joint response to the housing shortage was not within reach. The government wanted too little, and sometimes they wanted things that went in the wrong direction. Too much leaning against the Left Party. There are good suggestions in the talks. Some of them have been presented by the government today, and we will support them here in Parliament. We will also present our own proposals in this House which go further, which is clearer and which is more powerful, Madam President. We take the housing shortage very seriously. The heading of the Christian Democrats' Spring Movement is Reforms for confidence in the future. Recently, we have seen many examples of trust being threatened. Big banks that help wealthy people hide assets in tax havens are one such example. Trust means an enormous amount, not least for the economy. It is reinforced when authorities treat everyone equally, when there is a prosperity the day we need it, and when everyone has good chances of life. Trust is also established, and perhaps above all, in the relationship between people. It is founded when we feel love and be seen and respected in union with others and when we can learn right and wrong and develop solidarity with the victim in small communities – often in the family. The Parliament is today to take a position on the Government's proposal to divide families. They affect children more than anyone else. But it also affects integration, and I think it also affects trust. What does it do to a country when it keeps parents separated from their children? Madam President, I would like In our spring exercise, we also prioritised the police – also to safeguard trust in society. Criminal prosecution and justice are fundamental to a secure society. We Christian Democrats see how the police enjoy great confidence but also how the police are burdened with an increasing workload. There is a need for more police officers but also for more civilian employees so that the police do not become receptionists or arrest guards but can be police officers. Therefore, we propose, fully funded, 2 100 more police officers by 2020 when a special effort is made on the National Task Force. 500 new civilian workers can start their job in the near future with our policy. What is the government's response to the police's work situation? The third area we focus on is health care and care with a strong retirement home guarantee. All over 85 years of age should be allowed to decide for themselves when it is time to move to a retirement home. I noted the Prime Minister's interest in the proposal in the party leader debate, and of course we offer good reform ideas when it comes to the dignity of older people. We also focus on health care teams – staff without long care training that can work with care-related services: serving food, transporting patients and samples and working with administration. We are doing this for the patients' sake and to relieve the heavy pressure of health workers, but also for the sake of jobs. Madam President, I would like The fourth area is precisely about jobs – the labour market. We Christian Democrats have the idea that everyone who can contribute what they can. But then everyone must also be allowed to contribute and get to work to 100 percent of their ability. But this is not the case in Sweden. We see a clear division of the labour market, where many are doing well. As unemployment decreases, the labour market is more clearly divided and those in a vulnerable position in the labour market are becoming an increasing proportion of the unemployed. It is often about foreign born people and people with a lack of education. Let's see how their chances of working are shrinking. The gap deepens between those who have a job and those who do not – those who do not become part of a working community. What happens to their faith in the future? What happens to their trust? What happens to their children, who may never see their parents go to work during their childhood? The government's almost total absence of structural reforms is about them. Of course, there are a number of laudable efforts in the spring change budget. A fast track is introduced. That's good. There will be a couple of extensions of the RUT after an agreement with the Alliance. That's good, too. But the government's political split also reduces the RUT ceiling. Uncertainty is created in an industry that creates thousands of new jobs where half of the people who get the jobs are born abroad and four out of five come from unemployment or dismissal. Unfortunately, there are no answers to the question of how high labour market barriers should be dismantled. Instead, the government does the opposite and increases taxes on jobs and businesses by tens of billions and imposes a special wage tax on older people who want to stay a little longer in the labour market. This, of course, provides fewer, and not more, jobs. At the moment, the effects of this are somewhat obscured by a very good economic situation and by previous job reforms. But when times get worse, this will become very clear. Therefore, the government should take the opportunity now, when Sweden is doing well and when the wheels are spinning, to make the structural reforms that the labour market needs. My view is that we, who have seen how the labour market has changed and how more and more people are in a vulnerable position, must do something substantial about this. The IMF, the OECD and the Financial Policy Council – all point to lowering the thresholds for jobs in Sweden and to do something about the problems of high entry wages and demands that knock out jobs and exclude people with lower qualifications. At least now the government has begun to pronounce the words. But in the spring bill it is clear that it echoes empty in the government's reform workshop. Light's out. You don't take the good opportunities that exist now as the wheels spin to make long-term job reforms. This is how a government that is not sufficiently prepared and that is unable or unable to drive the reform agenda that Sweden needs. We need to make it easy to employ and easy to hire people with lower qualifications and a lack of language skills. That is why we Christian Democrats want to introduce introductions aimed at these groups: a new, simple form of employment to honour the job at work where 75% is a collective wage and 25% is education for which the employer is responsible. This should be combined with reduced income tax for newly arrived young people and those from unemployment and sick leave. No plans should be approved by any authority, no parties should speak out and there is no extensive bureaucracy. But you are covered by the same employment protection as others. This means simplicity and lower costs for hiring people who currently find it difficult to enter the labour market. They can learn the job at work in this way. We also want to join the jungle of various subsidised jobs that exist so that there will be fewer subsidies but that the support available will be easier to use. At the same time, we want to strengthen labour market support for people with disabilities with more security positions and higher wage subsidy levels. We do this in order to streamline Arbetsförmedlingen and make sure that the work mediators do not administer all different systems but are allowed to devote themselves to their main task of matching and conveying work. That is why we also want to abolish the training of the Public Employment Service and instead invest considerably more in the more effective professional practice. Step by step, we need to reform labour market policies and make major job reforms. We will do this so that more people can feel the pride of making a living, for more people to be in demand, for more people to feel the community around the coffee machine in the workplace and for more people to become part of the community for real. We believe that it promotes trust, confidence in the future and hope, and that is something that Sweden urgently needs. We do this to give everyone the chance to work 100% of their ability.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-115	Madam President, I would like We are approaching midsummer by leaps and bounds, but any real summer heat in the world economy is difficult to discover. Our economic environment is developing relatively weakly. Most recently in the OECD's E conomic O utlook from the beginning of June, the picture of world growth is confirmed. In the European Union, economic recovery cannot be described exactly as strong either. In most forecast revisions, tenths are removed rather than added. Moreover, the geopolitical situation and the British referendum mentioned earlier present clear downside risks. Madam President, I would like Sweden, on the other hand, is strong in this weak environment. The Swedish strength is also by historical measurements measured quite considerable. The Swedish growth rate belongs to Europe's abso lute top layer. It is higher than in the United States, twice as high as in Germany and higher than in all our Nordic neighbours. The Swedish labour market is developing strongly. More than 100,000 more people are in work now than in the elections, and the Swedish Public Employment Service's forecast of development in the coming years is the most positive since this was measured about a decade ago. That's 140,000 new jobs in two years. Moreover, the labour market is strong on a broad front, not least among young people. Young people in Sweden, for example, work rarely before. It is 15 years since the proportion of young people in jobs was so high. The number and share of young people not studying or working are falling. Swedish employment between the ages of 20 and 64 has not been so high since before the major crisis in the early 1990s. In addition, long-term unemployment is decreasing. The number of hours worked in the economy is increasing. More and more people are receiving their own salary from their own work. The power from our economic development will be used to further strengthen the welfare building and the Swedish model for a more robust and forward-looking Sweden. We invest heavily in Swedish schools, which are the institutions of society that may more than anyone else have to succeed better if we want to have continued and strengthened prosperity and prosperity in our country. To reverse the declining development of knowledge in recent years, we are now investing 8 billion more annually in school. It gives thousands more teachers. It gives more teachers with higher salaries. It gives more early input. This also means that the state takes greater responsibility for an equal school. This can be done when the construction of society is put before reduced taxes. In addition to our major investments in school and in the smaller groups in preschool and the targeted money for elderly care and healthcare that is now being invested, we will be investing another 10 billion in welfare next year. Eight years of reduced taxes make the need very clear. Welfare needs increased resources. I mentioned the teachers and the school before, but that also applies to the welfare workers in the care of the elderly, in preschool and in social services. Everyone needs more colleagues rather than lower wages. This is how we can build the Swedish social model, increase security and make Sweden more robust and sustainable. Madam President, I would like If the most important thing is to reverse the knowledge results in school, other efforts to strengthen Sweden as a competence and knowledge nation will be very close thereafter. One can talk for a long time about the great deficit in public finances that the government inherited from the bourgeois. But the question is whether the lack of knowledge and education is by far the most serious. The large recruitment gap that we now see in the Swedish labour market, i.e. the many vacancies that exist but that today cannot be matched with anyone who can take the job, is deeply problematic. There are therefore employers who want to hire – companies that have an order, who have customers, who have ideas about and want to develop their business and their company but who do not find staff. On the other side, there are people who have not had the opportunity to get the education needed to take the jobs. It is such an excessive waste of opportunity and potential. This is why the broad range of training measures implemented by the government and the desire to strengthen them is absolutely crucial. If this is a matter of additional shortage of vocational training, fast-track, Komvux, Vux, polytechnic, university or university education, we really need the long line and wide range of efforts that the government has put in the lake and is now changing up. This knowledge boost means, in the long run, more jobs, more added services, higher growth, greater competitiveness, higher wages, greater prosperity and greater security. There is also a policy that allows more people to and dare to apply for studies through increased study funding in a start-up grant. The aim is to get the low-skilled to the school bench and shorten their way into the labour market. A work line also requires a training line. But getting more low-skilled on the knowledge train immediately condemned Anna Kinberg Batra, on Twitter for safety reasons, as a grant policy. An initiative that would enable more people with low levels of education to learn more in order to be able to enter companies and contribute to their development is thus described as a grant policy. How ideologically short-sighted! The shift in the policy of the bourgeois government from reduced taxes to more knowledge is of crucial importance to Sweden. We will strengthen the Swedish model and replace passivity with activity. Madam President, I would like Building society must be based on a long-term stable foundation. It is therefore extremely important for the government to take a more responsible approach to public finances and put politics in a more responsible direction. The large deficits inherited from the bourgeois years are reduced and can gradually then be grazed on the road to balance and surplus. It can also be noted that the government is keeping the expenditure ceilings and that the share of public debt in GDP is decreasing. So it is despite the very significant costs that are and will be the effect of the refugee crisis and the very extensive Swedish asylum reception in recent years. At the same time, it can be noted that the rescheduling of migration policy with border controls, identity checks and an otherwise changed policy down to the EU's minimum levels, on which Parliament will vote this afternoon, has an effect. Further efforts to mitigate the costs of reception, improve the efficiency of the return of those refused and improve the establishment process for those who remain may further improve the outcome. The government is also dealing with other old sins. Investment in infrastructure and housing, which is a matter for the day, are two such examples. But there is also work to be done in the field of health insurance. From the 2010 elections to the 2014 elections, ill health increased strongly. It can be illustrated economically, if one chooses that perspective, by the fact that costs increased by 12 billion or almost 60%. Ulf Kristersson was ultimately responsible for this development. He recently stood in the speaker's chair and talked about how important it was to keep track of the costs. It is. Nevertheless, during his time as Minister of State Ulf Kristersson did not manage to put forward a single proposal in this area that was actually deemed to be able to reduce costs. That, of course, did not happen either. It is necessary to break this trend. Now the government has put in preventive measures, interventions during the illness period and support back to work. We can see that the rate of increase is slowing down, but it is quite clear that more will be needed. But at least now we have a government, a Minister for Social Security and a Minister for Finance who is not only content to look at the figures, but who is actually also acting and ruling. Madam President, I would like The Swedish model is based on high employment, high knowledge and competence and that everyone gets the chance to learn more and learn about and get the opportunity to contribute. It is based on the fact that we share burdens and success. With the government's guidelines for economic policy, the Swedish model and the building of our society can be strengthened. It is the best guarantee against a troubled world, and it is the best solution to the challenges facing Sweden. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-136	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats and the government are pursuing a policy that I want to assert in many ways is centralist and goes out over jobs around the country. We've seen changes. For example, the ROT deduction, which has given jobs in small and larger towns in the country, is reduced and the money is spent on housing subsidies, which in their very construction are aimed at the big cities. We look at the area by area how to add charges and avoid simplifying the rules for entrepreneurship around the country. On the map there is also still a tax at a distance in itself. Kilometer tax, road wear charge, road wear tax – you usually say that dear children have many names. In this case, it's anything but love. Nevertheless, it has many names. The government has made it clear that it wants to do this. In the election campaign we were told that it was not rocket science – this would come quickly. It turned out to be complicated. It has taken many years, but the plans are still there. When I talk to social democrats at home in my constituency, Västernorrland, they do not believe that their own government can actually stand for such a proposal: a tax at a distance. It is a tax on heavy traffic that starts regardless of whether you drive the most environmentally smart and the most efficient or if you drive old dirty diesel trucks from the 70's that spew out exhaust gases. Either way, you pay the same amount of tax. Now we have received signals that this tax will also be increased. It will be higher than we thought and even more serious. For the forest industry, this is about 2 billion. For small hauliers it is about hundreds of thousands of crowns. Fredrik Olovsson! When do you close the store? When are you withdrawing your plans for a tax from a distance?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-141	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that the whole country can live. It is an important priority for this government not only to invest in big cities. Here we break with the development we have seen since before. We also relocate government jobs in the country, because we think it is important that the state also shows very practical that we take responsibility for the whole of Sweden. In addition, we have removed the moderate billion. Instead, we make sure that money is made available in all municipalities. We have steered the way in which we support the municipalities, so that the municipalities, often in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas, which have had to shoulder a great deal of responsibility for the refugee crisis also have financial resources to cope with this. During your reign, it was a huge problem. They had to take a lot of responsibility, but they didn't get any resources. Now we have turned that policy around. It's very important. We also ensure that all municipalities throughout the country take responsibility for the migration policy decided in this House. It is an important shift in Sweden and something that will have great significance for the whole country in the future. When it comes to the transport sector, I meet a great many road hauliers who are concerned about the underbourg competition that exists in this area. You do not follow the rules that exist in Sweden. You don't pay for working on Swedish roads. I think that there is reason to proceed with these proposals, which may mean that the Swedish transport sector will become more competitive and that we will also get our roads in order. However, I do of course have views on the economic guidelines of the Center Party. But I guess I'll have to get back to them in the next line.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-145	Madam President, I would like A lot of what Fredrik Olovsson says is even good. But he is not really answering the question, Madam President. It is not wrong to streamline the state's activities by placing them where you have to pay a little less per square metre and per hour worked. It's wise. It is also included in the economic guidelines of the Center Party and the Alliance. That's right. It is not at all wrong to want to invest in infrastructure around the country. And it is not wrong to review and come up with concrete measures against the unfair competition that exists on Swedish roads. Above all, it is a question of having much more strict supervision. If you don't behave – if you don't pay the fees you should, if you don't drive with winter tires when you are supposed to, or if you violate environmental regulations and other things – we'll be much tougher. Then you're supposed to trample and confiscate vehicles until there's been a lot of fines paid. That is not how it works today. This should be in place as soon as possible – it would be welcome. But the solution, Fredrik Olovsson, cannot be to tax all heavy transport in this country. The Swedish forestry industry will pay 2 billion with the latest investigation proposal. We can only imagine what it will be like for all small shops at the end of the distribution network and for small farmers at the end of the distribution network. They are the ones who will pay 24 kroner per mile. No one can believe anything but that this is put on the bill of the final consumer, the transport buyer. There will be more small shops closing down, because they won't get the calculation together. It's hard enough already. There will be more small farmers who will not be able to afford to pay to have their goods transported. This is a bad and anti-rural policy. Your own Social Democrats do not believe this to be true. Give them right!
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-149	Madam President, I would like It is nice to also receive praise from Emil Källström for all the proposals that we are now making and that he thinks are good. One can only wonder why they did not come during their eight years of government. What about government jobs throughout the country during that period? Yes, we all know that; it became a centralisation. How did we manage money to different parts of the country? Yes, we know that; it became a moderate billion instead of the rural communities taking part in increased resources. What about migration policy and its responsibility? Yes, it was a few municipalities outside the big cities that had to take the big responsibility, and there the citizens have had to finance the failure that this actually is for Emil Källström. Then, of course, it is extremely important that we have tax systems that give us the resources we need to invest in infrastructure. It is important that we keep track of our roads, that also foreign skiers are allowed to pay for the wear they cause and that we actually also get a little better control that this is done in a good and reasonable way. Unfortunately, the Center Party never got that far. I must nevertheless say, when Emil Källström now stands here, that what he has put on Parliament's table is not really a policy that is connected. Above all, the Center Party differs in its own formulations about migration policy. When you compare them with the alliance guidelines, you can see that this is not working. In addition, the Center Party does not even dare to use its savings as funding in its proposal, but they specifically show them in their budget. They do so for the reason that they know that they actually have large increases in expenditure in their budget and in their policies rather than in savings.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-154	Madam President, I would like We are talking about the core of welfare – that parents, children and young people can feel confident that there are competent and well-trained staff working at school, in health care and in care. Around Sweden we now see that there is not everywhere the opportunity to recruit people who have the skills that we want to be in welfare. It's not just a rural problem. Even in our big cities, it is a problem to find nurses, doctors and teachers, simply because welfare is now expanding and there are not enough competent people available. A resource that then exists is those who are about to go or have retired, those who have passed the 65-year limit but who throughout their working life have worked at the core of welfare. On them the government chooses to add an extra tax, a pensioner tax. The employer, i.e. municipalities and la ndsting, is charged an additional tax n is they hire a person who has previously worked and who could now work at the core of welfare. In the same way, the government selects, with clinical precision, for example midwives and first teachers, well-educated people who work at the core of welfare. With your policy, they will not even be allowed to retain half of the last hundred they earn. Is that fair? That's the question you ask yourself. Most serious of all, the question is what possibility municipalities and county councils have to recruit people when you make it both more expensive to hire and also less profitable for midwife to go in and take an extra pass on the weekend through your politics. My question to Fredrik Olovsson is: In what way are more midwives working when they are not allowed to keep even half of what they earn? In what way will it be more elderly in welfare when you make it more expensive for municipalities and county councils to hire them?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-159	Madam President, I would like Why are there so many skills shortages? Why do we have such a huge recruitment gap? Why have we not trained enough people for the professions that are now so much needed in both public and private activities? Why is that? Of course, this is because, for a long time in Sweden, rather than investing in education and skills, we have reduced taxes and not expanded education systems in a way that is necessary for us now to have enough people to take the jobs that are emerging and for which so many of us also see a great need. It is an education debt, an education deficit for which not least the Liberals bear a great responsibility. It is not a great pleasure for those who are now going to try to hire or for those who need help and support today. But it is important to tell us what has been the problem. The challenge now, of course, is to resize these systems so that more people can get the training that can provide jobs. Of course, it does not help in the short term, but we will find many different ways out in the operations. I am also active in local politics, and there we now see the need to find new solutions to relieve the staff you have at a certain level of competence so that others can do some of the job they do and they can concentrate on what is really at the heart of their skills. It may be that more nurses may be pulled out for the doctor, that the assistant nurse does the nurse's job, and so on. In answer to the question of incentives, one may well say that there is a very, very strong incentive for people to remain in the Swedish labour market. Our entire pension system is designed to support this.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-165	Madam President, I would like Let us note that both teacher and nurse training, for example, has been expanded over the last ten or fifteen years. Social Democrats and Liberals, as well as the other parties in the Alliance, can be proud that we have for a long time been expanding education systems in Sweden precisely to ensure competence in the core of welfare. For example, during the last five to eight years, the number of places in nursing education around our country has increased considerably. So it is not just about how many people we have trained, it is about making use of the resources available now that more people need to be employed at the heart of welfare, not least in the light of the fact that many new arrivals are coming to our country. How can we get people who may have already retired to enjoy going back to work? In this situation, the government chooses to make it more expensive to hire people over 65 years of age. I don't understand the logic. In this very situation, the government is now putting on our table proposals which mean that it does not pay for the midwife either to train in the long term or, in the short term, to take the extra duty when he or she is not even allowed to keep half of the last one earned. I share Fredrik Olovsson's view that we need to reform the public sector in the sense that we need to create more simple jobs that enable those who are trained to work with exactly what they are trained for. It is therefore surprising that Fredrik Olovsson stands here and says one thing, while that kind of proposal is often opposed by Social Democratic politicians when they are presented around Sweden's municipalities and county councils. It is therefore with some surprise that I can note that rhetoric is in a way here in the pulpit and something else out there in reality. The question remains, Fredrik Olovsson : In what way will there be more people in the welfare with the tax increases you now want to implement?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-171	Madam President, I would like True, we have increased taxes. We are doing this because we have large deficits in public finances, something that we have inherited from a previous government, and great needs in our common sector to be financed. That is why we have increased taxes, and we use these resources partly to get a stronger economic situation, partly and above all so that municipalities and county councils now have a lot of new resources. We have invested 8 billion more in school. Next year, 10 billion will come to the local government sector, which can be used precisely to expand and strengthen its welfare. These are extremely important investments. Of course, marginal taxes should be taken into consideration. They matter. But it must also be made clear that those countries in the world that have high marginal taxes also have very high employment and very developed economies. There is sometimes a vision that if people pay taxes, they will not work. But people who have obtained an education, who have experience and who will be able to earn extra money when they have turned 65, 67 or 69 by making an effort also do so to a very large extent, because it is very good for them to do so. It is economically viable, and there is also a very strong driving force and strong incentives in the Swedish pension system for us to work as much as possible. It is a message that we should all be putting forward: it will pay off both now and as a pensioner to work more.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-176	That is why it is also so important that we focus on more people being able to get a job, and that is why we can also be pleased that the labour market is developing strongly in Sweden right now.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-177	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report 'Guidelines for economic policy'. Today we have a position to take on the government's policy of sustainable development. We also have the bourgeois counter-proposals with a focus on cuts in the public sector and major tax cuts. Today we face a major challenge. It is about solving an economic situation that is because many in a short time sought protection in Sweden and want to start a new life here. Temporarily, this means that we have higher costs, but it is also an investment for the future that means that in the long term we will be more people in Sweden who work and pay taxes. The fact that Sweden is growing is important and makes us different from several countries in Europe that have an ageing population that is not growing. There are great legitimate concerns about economic development that is at risk of stagnating. The government shows with the budget that it is possible to take responsibility for public finances within the framework we agree on together even in times when many in a short time have sought to Sweden in order to start a new life in flight from war and oppression. Employment is increasing, and to a large extent it is born abroad that is responsible for the growth of new jobs. The construction of society is something we form and contribute to together. An important aspect of long-term economic policy is how we meet environmental objectives. The environmental and climate costs that we are taking today reduce the challenges that future generations will otherwise have to bear financially. I am therefore pleased that the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee is progressing and that in the future we will have a climate policy framework to relate to. Madam President, I would like Of course, there are challenges today, but it is important to nuance the picture painted by several previous speakers. Many people other than the government believe that Sweden is doing well. The increase in GDP shows that there is good activity in the economy, but there are many other things that are also moving in the right direction. Work on economic equality is progressing with government policy. Försäkringskassan's forecast looks more positive than in a long time. According to Statistics Sweden, more and more people have a job to go to, and the Swedish Financial Control Agency forecasts a more positive development than before in public finances. In view of the challenges facing many newcomers to get to work quickly, it is also gratifying that the government is implementing a series of measures to improve their establishment. Through these efforts, we will also strengthen the capacity for our reception in the future. In the spring budget, the Government presents investment aid for school premises, skills mapping for asylum seekers, increased funding for municipalities for new arrivals with special needs, investments in SFI and Swedish as second language, validation and fast track for entrepreneurs, increased funding for the reception of unaccompanied minors, further training of unauthorized teachers and refugee guides. For the Green Party, jobs are important, but so is the environment. The number of jobs in the environmental sector remained in principle unchanged under the rule of the bourgeois government. Instead, we now have a government that wants to reverse this trend and focus on jobs in the environmental sector through efforts on nature conservation and incentives for renewable energy. The Government has already implemented a number of elements that provide new jobs in the environmental sector, such as measures for valuable nature, climate change and massively extended support for solar power production. These are important measures, not just because it provides new jobs, but because it provides new jobs that contribute to the transition to a sustainable society where we can achieve environmental objectives. Madam President, I would like The spring budget also presents several tax proposals from the government that lead to more green jobs. It is a whole package of taxes presented by the government that makes it easier and cheaper to do what is best from an environmental point of view. That's how society becomes sustainable. Every single proposal does not mean a revolution in itself, but together they take us clearly in the right direction and reinforce other parts of the government's policy for sustainable development. The Green Party has long asked for economic instruments to stimulate a circular economy. In our party program, we say, among other things, that we want it to be both simple and cheap for everyone to reuse and repair things instead of constantly buying new ones. ..................................................... Two of the government's tax proposals are about precisely this – giving things a longer life, reducing wear and tear and that it should be cheaper than buying new ones. Besides being good for the environment, it also gives jobs. For example, among newly arrived people there are many who have craft skills and know how to make laws and keep things alive. These proposals make it easier for them to get started with activities on which they can make a living. The first proposal concerns the extension of the RUT deduction to include the repair of home appliances. This means that those who get their dishwasher or washing machine or any other similar appliance fixed may make RUT deduction for it. Then it becomes more meaningful to fix it instead of throwing it away and buying a new one. The second proposal concerns reduced VAT on repairs of bicycles, shoes and clothing, for example. The VAT for classic craft professions is halved, which means that it will pay off to repair. We also hope that the demand for repairs will increase so significantly that it clearly leads to new jobs. The wear and tear economy is no longer modern. In our party programme, we also say that we want to see sharp demands on producers to market new products and phase out environmentally harmful substances. We see that economic instruments and legislation are needed to achieve better management of energy and materials. This is what we are now meeting with proposals on chemicals tax. In another part of the party programme it says: a new technology makes it easier to live in a way that is better for the environment. We will continue to find smarter and more efficient ways to produce products and extract energy. Through economic instruments and market regulation, we will use economic development power to meet environmental and resource challenges. ..................................................... A few of the government's measures in the budget that are in line with this are that the government wants to make it easier and more attractive – in addition to the greatly expanded financial support – to set up solar cells. With the government's efforts, it is easier than ever to put solar cells on their own homes. One problem for those who want to sell the solar electricity that they do not need has been that you have to account for VAT from the first crown. It's gone now. The proposal will make it possible to have a turnover of up to SEK 30 000 onor before you need to report VAT. It helps those who sell their own electricity but also others who have a small business alongside the job, such as beekeepers or others with hobbies. The tax on renewable fuels is now being reduced. This means that the E85 will be 75 øre cheaper per litre and high mixed diesel 38 øre cheaper. It is also a success for the environment. Madam President, I would like I am happy – and I know that many of my party colleagues are happy – that the government has now announced a budget increase to municipalities and county councils with 10 billion a year. It's a lot of money, and they really make a difference. Together with investments already made, the Government's and the Left Party's increased contribution to municipalities and county councils corresponds to a possible increase of over 30 000 people employed in welfare. It's the hands that need to be done. In a growing Sweden and with large investments in people, jobs, sustainable technology and much more, we continue together with many others the modern and sustainable construction of society.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-200	Madam President, I would like I think I and Janine Alm Ericson agree that we should create a labour market that is open to more people. I think we are both concerned about the duality we see in the Swedish labour market. For those who are, like, right – if you know the language, have attended Swedish school, have good contacts and so on – unemployment is almost not a problem in Sweden today. But for those who cannot check all those points, it is much more difficult. One of the problems is if you have a history of illness. If you have been on long-term sick leave or similar, you already find it much harder to get a job than if you have lived your life and been healthy. The government has made progress in proposing changes to health insurance. You call it a health exchange, and that sounds good. However, this means that after 90 days the employer must pay a quarter of the costs of sick pay. It is easy to see what this is all about. It is not least small companies, which do not know whether they dare to hire or not. It is a risk to them, and this reform is clearly a deterioration of the calculation. Most of the time, however, it goes out on those who have a history of illness, disability or the like who are out looking for a job. For them, the threshold is even higher. Small job creators – we have found that it is with them that jobs in Swedish society are created today – will be even more careful to hire someone with a disease background. Is that good?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-206	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Emil Källström is addressing the problem of the high sickness rates and, I hope, we see that we need to do something about them. We have seen for a very long time how ill-health has increased, mainly among women, and it is mental ill-health that is the problem. There we need to make many efforts in the working environment and other things. Therefore, the Government's proposal for a health exchange was also an invitation to the parties to try to agree on ways of remedying this. Unlike what Emil Källström is trying to pretend about, there is in the proposal that has expired exceptions for those who have a history of disease. As far as I am aware, this proposal is not included in the report we are discussing today, but I will nevertheless take the opportunity to ask Emil Källström what proposals the Center Party has to make to deal with ill health and to help people with ill health back to work and to rehabilitation. It does not help to do as the alliance government and believe that people will surely be healthy if you take away the money.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-208	Madam President, I would like I think many stones need to be lifted when it comes to health insurance. The trend in the taking out of health insurance and sick pay is to some extent disconnected from the figures on ill health. They vary a little, and there are no clear connections between them. It's strange and something we have to deal with. This government took as some of its first steps decisions that we know lead to longer sick leave, including the removal of the distant parentheses. I think that's bad. We have also proposed, together with several of our alliance friends, a Karen's Day at day 15 as a way of getting a checkpoint, so that people are not on sick leave longer than they would otherwise be. We also know that passivity is one of the most pathogens there is. You should get into rehabilitation and back into the labour market as quickly as possible. Janine Alm Ericson does not answer my question and refers to a loosely defined exception. No one can believe that any exception will be so broad that it covers all those who will now find it more difficult to get a full-time job. It will not be possible to reassure small businesses who are now very concerned about the change. Soon all consultation bodies – unions, employers, SME organisations – agree that this is bad for small businesses and worse for those with a history of disease trying to enter the labour market. That's a bad suggestion. There are better ways forward, and I think that not least the Green Party should see what this policy is going on.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-212	Madam President, I would like I still want to maintain that the large sickness rates in Sweden are a problem. However, setting a time limit for how long you can be on sick leave is not something that makes people healthy. We need better cooperation between employers and employees, including in order to be able to get into rehabilitation efforts. Today we have seen that there have been ways for companies not to take that responsibility. I very much hope that together we will be able to do this and more efforts to ensure that people are not on sick leave for a long time and get back to work. It is really as Emil Källström says that passivity is extremely paralysing for a person, and it does not help anyone get well either.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-215	Madam President, I would like As usual when listening to Janine Alm Ericson, there is much to agree with and much I can appreciate: the importance of sustainability, to think more circularly about the economy, instruments, green tax exchange and such things. When it comes to the Green Party in general, there are two pictures. One is that the Green Party has too much influence in the government and in the public debate, and the other is that it has far too little. Perhaps you have influence in the wrong areas. One area where there has clearly been too little influence is the decision to separate children from their parents – that the government should stand between parents and their children – which I find very regrettable. In the past, there was talk of the change in health. If you look at the Green Party's election manifesto, you can see that you went to elections to completely abolish employers' health pay liability in small companies. It would be completely gone. This is not really the way the health exchange works. It is based on employers paying more for sick pay. Green tax exchanges have also been discussed many times here. The problem with your green tax shift is that there will only be a massive increase in taxes on jobs and entrepreneurs; the change itself will not happen. If you go to the Environmental Party's exchange office and say that you want to make a change in health and a change in taxation, there will be little of the change itself. You just have to hand in your money without getting enough back. Everything disappears in taxes and charges. Such an exchange office would, I believe, have relatively small prospects in the long run. The very concept of exchange is devalued quite forcefully. I guess you can live with that. After all, the problem is politics in practice. You also had a proposal to reduce the employer's contribution for small businesses by 10 percentage points, rather than increasing it, as you are doing now. Then I wonder: will this proposal come during this term of office?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-220	Madam President, I would like Among other things, in the proposal for a change in health, there is a reduction in employers' contributions as financial compensation to businesses. Yes, the proposal comes. It is also something on which we went to elections and for which we continue to fight. If it's cheaper to hire, more people will hire. We believe that it is a way of creating the jobs that we talk so much about in other contexts. We are also doing tax cuts. Jakob Forssmed talks about a rather broad palette of the Green Party's will and our current policy. That's very good. A reduction in employers' contributions is also the reduction for those who employ their first person. For them, we have now removed the employer's contribution. Then there are several different proposals that I can go into, but I understand that I have nevertheless answered Jakob Forssmed's question.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-222	Madam President, I would like I was a little broad in my description here; it is a reasonable criticism that can be directed at me in this context. However, I would also like to criticise the Green Party a little, and that is why I am making a broad description. I think it is a problem that you are going to choose to reduce employers' contributions but then actually raise them sharply. Sure, some margin adjustments are made, but on the total there is a slight drop at one end and a very powerful increase at the other. I find that problematic. Now you are saying that you will fulfil your election promise to reduce employers' contributions. But your election promise was also that smaller companies would be completely relieved of their sickness pay responsibility. This is not the case with the health exchange, is it? The very idea is that companies' health pay responsibility should increase, not that it should be abolished, is it not? That must reasonably go contrary to what you said in your election manifesto?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-224	Madam President, I would like The Green Party went to elections on the climate, school and jobs, and there you can see that we deliver on a very broad front. We have introduced several different environmental taxes and we have major investments in the environment. The school receives a great deal of money in history, and we are investing in the smallest children with the read-write-count guarantee. We also invest in the jobs while investing in a Sweden that is stronger in the future. So I do not really see how Jakob Forssmed's criticism of what we went to elections on is in line with reality, but I thank him for the question.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-226	Madam President, I would like I'm going to save the Swedish school in 100 days. So said your party colleague and Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin before the elections, Janine Alm Ericson. Let us note that it was not quite as the Minister promised. As far as the Green Party is concerned, it was promised on a point-by-point broad and large before the elections, but once you gained influence over Swedish politics, there was not much of the promises. In the budget we have on our table right now, it is clear that the government prioritises buildings and schoolyards, while the Liberals and the Alliance prioritise knowledge, first teachers, better conditions for teachers and order and order in the classrooms. The Green Party has traditionally, despite the lack of election promises, historically been relatively positive towards free schools. Waldorf pedagogy and such, environmentalists usually like it very well. At the moment, Reepalus's investigation, which will look at the free schools' long-term ability to operate in Sweden, is under way, but we also clearly note a harsh rhetoric from the Green Party – but perhaps even more clearly from the Social Democrats and the Left Party. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven went so far as to say that children are sold on the stock exchange. What do you think of that rhetoric, Janine Alm Ericson?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-229	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to welcome you to the Committee on Finance and the debates we have in this House, Mats Persson. I hope you'll like it. Through all these years, the Green Party has been clear about school. We are in favour of different orientations, different types of pedagogy and that people should have a chance to choose what they think is best suited for their children. But with that, it is not said that we wanted to turn the school into a profit machine where companies have more influence over what is happening than, for example, the school plan. When this debate takes place in this House, we always make it sound like it is black or white and like the profits in the school sector are not a problem. But even the Liberals must have seen that there have been cases where children have come to school on Monday morning and met with a note that the school has gone bankrupt, with the message: Thank you and hello, you have to look elsewhere! I think it is good that we are having this debate, and I think it is good that we are having discussions about how we want to develop school policy in Sweden, even when it comes to whether we should have profits in school or not. Otherwise, I prefer to wait for the investigation that is now ongoing and that will be completed in the autumn. Then I think we'll have a chance to discuss this issue a lot more. That we should have no ambitions in the field of education, I am strongly opposed. The welfare billions, as I mentioned in my speech, are one way of enabling both schools and preschools to employ more staff. It provides more support for the children, who then become more visible and can perform better. It's also a big investment in new school premises, not just in schoolyards – which in itself is also very important. It gives higher salaries to teachers and more motivated teachers, and it gives us more teachers. I could go on for a while longer, but I see that my speaking time is not enough.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-235	Madam President, I would like There are some things we agree on in this House. For example, we agree, and was it in the Free School Agreement the Alliance concluded with the Green Party and the Social Democrats, that actors in welfare should act in the long term. It's important. We also agree in this House that welfare needs more resources. So there is no political conflict about the welfare billions you stand and highlight here, Janine Alm Ericson. The political conflict is about how this money is to be spent. Should the money go to renovate schoolyards and concrete in school, or should it go to the content of the business – to the teachers' conditions, order and order in the classroom, focus on knowledge and early intervention for children and young people so that they learn early in school? Therein lies the conflict. We from the Liberals clearly prioritise order and knowledge in the focus of school. The Green Party has some problems. If you have a Minister of Education who promised to save the Swedish school in 100 days but does not take any initiatives towards making the Swedish school better, it is clear that the party's credibility gets a thorn. When election promises after election promises are broken, it is clear that the credibility of the Environmental Party is getting a thorn. Then it is important for us in this House to get a sense and a picture of what the Green Party feels about the huge rhetoric the Prime Minister uses when he says that children should be sold on the stock exchange. This signals that the Social Democrats, eagerly encouraged by the Left Party, now want to break – or have already broken – the free school agreement and go even further to limit the free schools' ability to operate in Sweden. It should feel in the heart of an environmental party. How does it feel for an environmental party when the Swedish Prime Minister uses rhetoric to mean that children are sold on the stock exchange?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-239	Madam President, I would like Mats Persson is right that we have a conflict about how to handle the Swedish school, but when he then lists the measures that the Liberals want to see, that is what we also put forward proposals for and implement. These are targeted actions where the needs are greatest. We have also had a higher standard regarding children's schooling for asylum seekers and compensation for the municipalities for refugees. For 2016, we add a total of 8.3 billion to school and preschool. There's never been as much bets as now. I will come back to the fact that we are making huge investments in school premises. If you have nowhere to be, you can't practice any particularly good pedagogy. The welfare billions should also be used to enable schools and preschools to employ more staff; we have been very clear about that. To point out that Gustav Fridolin has said that he will save the Swedish school in 100 days is to take an evening newspaper title and make it the truth. In fact, I thought we would pass on this in this House.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-242	Madam President, I would like You can also see that it is wonderful with a minister of education who wants to save the school instead of one who for eight years did everything he could to blame someone else. That is how politics can be viewed. Madam President, I would like There are too great economic differences between people in today's Sweden. While a lot of people are forced to turn and turn every penny day after day, month after month or year after year, others can wallow in luxury and abundance. These may also be unconcerned when people are worried about whether they can afford rent, new rubber boots for the children, or electricity bills. A holiday week in another town can be an unattainable dream. There is a need for a greater redistribution in this country, and my hope is that a Social Democratic-led government will. It should distinguish more between a bourgeois-led government and a social-democratic-led government in the taxation of capital. We must increase the taxation of capital if we are to reduce economic disparities. And we have to do that, because we all know that togetherness and trust are being eroded in society as the gaps grow. We also know that democracy is affected. When we negotiate the budget with the government, economic equality is central, but also an expanded and enhanced welfare, that women's living conditions should be at the centre and that there should be investment for more people in work. We also want to defend the Swedish model. It is a model based on the parties putting wages on the labour market and concluding agreements. It is a model of a tax-funded general welfare that requires a relatively high tax charge, and it contains income-based insurance policies such as unemployment insurance and health insurance. We believe that this model is not only worth defending but that we should also work towards its development. That is why the 10 billion in permanent increases in state subsidies for health care, school and care, that is, the local government sector, are so very welcome. It is fully in line with what we have prioritised. It provides jobs and better welfare, strengthens women's living conditions, and equality increases. It is the largest permanent investment ever since this system was introduced in 1993. At my home in Gävleborg, the county council receives 89 million, and Skåne receives 274 million. This means that a great many nurses can now have more colleagues and that their salaries and working conditions can be improved. If you work in welfare, you should have the best conditions for doing your job. We are all dependent on well-functioning welfare systems and that we have welfare workers who feel that they can do good work and are sufficient. Now steps are taken on the way there. In addition, the Government will initiate a dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils in order to be able to start work to tackle the problem of shortage of jobs in welfare. Madam President, I would like For us, it has also been important to include a goal of greater equality. An action plan will now be developed to gradually achieve and maintain income growth higher than the national average of the 40% of the population with the lowest income by 2030. In a modern society, the fight against inequality must be central. Part-time work is one of the reasons why women in particular have low incomes. Although working women want to work full-time, their work is not organised to enable it. Moreover, the opening hours of childcare facilities for members of municipalities and commerce, for example, make it difficult to work full-time. And care for the elderly is not sufficiently developed to meet the needs, which means that very many, especially women, are forced to go down in working hours in order to take care of their elderly relatives. All of this has consequences for women's health and for their income in life, but also for the economy as a whole. A study will now be set up to see what consequences it will have for the individual woman but also for the national economy, because women's living conditions need to be improved. We would have liked to have seen a statutory right to full-time care, a right to childcare on inconvenient working hours and a strong increase in care for the elderly. But the investigation is also an important tool to highlight women's living conditions in today's Sweden. Initiatives will also be taken to tackle tax evasion. Tax consultants' obligation to inform authorities about tax arrangements shall be investigated. Tax evasion and tax evasion is a major social problem that undermines the Swedish model and the morale of society, and a great deal needs to be done. The government's ten-point list is a good first step and steps in the right direction, but much more needs to be done in this area, because a small group in society believes that it is outside the community and responsibility for the common welfare and therefore takes its money to tax havens in order to avoid contributing to cancer care, children's school or the elderly's care. The Moderates know this very well, among other things, because they have had two members of Parliament on the tax committee who have escaped from the tax and who were included in the Panama documents. And I must say that I have never ever heard anything from the Moderates when their own members slip away from paying taxes. But it may be so normal in a tax evasion party that the reactions will not be answered. But if the Moderates do not express any concern about tax evasion and how it affects society and the Swedish model, they are very worried that the sick will receive financial compensation from health insurance. They therefore propose, together with the other bourgeois parties, the reintroduction of the so-called stupefying stock. That it puts them in their eyes so much that the sick should be able to feel financial security and be able to concentrate on being healthy that they hunt the sick and the unemployed, while proposing tax cuts for the healthy with jobs and wanting to increase income differentials, may well be seen as old-fashioned bourgeois politics. One could imagine that tax evasion would deserve a line in any of the bourgeois's budget movements, but I can't find anything. The model they claim to defend, the Swedish model, is undermined in many ways. If it isn't wages that should be lowered with the help of the state, it's a competition in reducing taxes and unemployment insurance the most. The bourgeois parties want to use the state to lower wages in the labour market, even though they claim to protect the Swedish model. The actual starting salary in trade is as low as $15,000 a month, but it is apparently still considered to be too high. Personally, I think that such low wages are a problem, a problem for the individual who is forced to live in economic insecurity but also because it affects demand in society. With $15,000 a month, it is extremely difficult to cope with such basic expenses as rent, clothing and food. If entry wages are reduced for certain groups, regardless of whether they are young, long-term unemployed or people with immigrant backgrounds, a reduction in one group's pay is a way of putting downward pressure on wages for other groups in the labour market as well. All bourgeois parties propose some form of new low-wage jobs. One model is that you should work 100 percent but only get paid for 75 percent over five years. Liberals call it a starting job, and the Moderates call it the first job employment. The rest of us call it free jobs – to work for free. A few years ago, few believed that the Liberals would compete with the Moderates for who could suggest the lowest a-cassage level. But if you want to reduce wages, it is important that the unemployment fund is as low as possible, because the unemployment fund is the floor for wages in the whole labour market. Another reason for lowering unemployment seems to be that you don't even think people want to work and do the right thing. That is why we must ensure that they are as badly off as possible, so that they get in their way and take a job. It says something about the human view that governs their policy. We in the Left Party believe that people want to work, to do the right thing and to be able to support themselves and therefore instead invest in increasing investment so that more people can get jobs. Madam President, I would like For the profit investigation that is now in place, the directives include proposing regulations so that any surplus is mainly reinvested, i.e. that the tax money that is added to healthcare, school and care should go to what they are intended for rather than to large private profit withdrawals. It has a broad popular attachment far into bourgeois electoral groups. However, according to the citizens, perhaps above all the Christian Democrats, the proposal is deeply problematic because they want corporate owners to continue to enrich themselves at the expense of your children's schooling, your grandmother's care and employees' working conditions and salaries. So do the Swedish Democrats. They have completely changed their line since the election. At that time, they attacked the huge profits of the school, among other things. Now they believe that the right to make a profit should be defended at all costs. More money for the venture capitalists is now their baton, and then Grandma is not so much worth. The Swedish Democrats are the party that is for sale for those who offer something good. It's the party where you don't know today what to think tomorrow. It's like a merry-go-round with wings – one goes here and one goes there. In fact, there is only one thing that seems to be permanent, and that is the hatred that they seem to feel toward other people. Madam President, I would like For us, economic policy is about giving hope and confidence in the future, ensuring that economic policy is used to smooth out income inequalities, to give all children a good start in life, to ensure that welfare is expanded and strengthened, to give people the opportunity to take a job and to invest to create new jobs. We want to build a sustainable country where climate and environment are at the centre. And we have lots of tasks that need to be done, so let's get them done. An important part of that, of course, is the 10 billion we are now getting for welfare. That is how unemployment is pushed down and common goods come into place. I support the proposal of the Committee on Finance.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-264	Madam President, I would like I will not comment on Ulla Andersson's left-wing populist rhetoric. I think it speaks for itself. However, I will comment on the human view, because it becomes clear when you listen to the speech how different human views Ulla Andersson and I have. In Ulla Andersson's world, the entrepreneur – for example, it can be my mother who is a small business owner in Markaryd in southern Småland – an evil person who gets up in the morning and wants nothing but to hurt other people and make money at the expense of other people. I perceive reality differently. I perceive that every day my mother gets up in the morning to make society a little better. The driving force for her is that she enjoys her job and that she can hire someone and thus contribute to Swedish welfare. She also happens to be a nurse and connected to the welfare sector, so Ulla Andersson sees well with really bad eyes on the business that my mother conducts. It is your human view of me, and it becomes very clear here in Parliament's pulpit that we are on two completely different planets in the view of how prosperity is created, in the view of what is a person's driving force and in the view of the entrepreneur's importance for prosperity and welfare in Sweden. Ulla Andersson seems to have her own banknote press. This is also evident in the influence of the Left Party on economic policy. Taxes will increase by SEK 30 billion in the coming years. Among other things, midwives should pay more in taxes. 100 000 people who do not today will have to pay government income tax next year and not even retain half of the last hundred. Where is the limit for how much tax Ulla Andersson wants to charge?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-272	Madam President, I would like I grew up in a small business family and have many relatives who run a business, so I know well what it means to have that responsibility and to feel worried when things may not go as well as we hope. I fully agree with the Liberals that we need many companies in the country. Entrepreneurs also need a well-trained workforce and a well-functioning infrastructure. They need childcare that is open when their shop is open or when they are going to do their job. They need a well-functioning and well-developed elderly care if it is to work to run a company with employees. That is why it is important that we have a well-developed welfare. I think, Mats Persson, that many of the midwives you care about when you talk about that they will have to pay a slightly higher tax on the last hundred actually want more coworkers and be able to feel the security of helping a woman at a time with childbirth and not have to run between several women to be delivered. They want to give the woman this security. That is why it is so important for the Left Party that the tax money we spend on maternity care, at the children's school or at childcare is also going there. It is central, and it is an effective way of using tax money. The tax money that you, me and everyone else pay will go to what they are intended for, i.e. to health care, childbirth and children's schooling. That's what matters to us. I don't know if your mother, Mats Persson, has a healthcare company – that sounds like it – and she's probably driven by the desire to develop her work. She will be able to continue to do so. However, there will be a requirement for any surplus to be mainly reinvested. I think that is reasonable, and most people in the country seem to think so.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-277	Mr President, I would like to Now we suddenly heard another rhetoric. However, it is the actual policy that the government is pursuing that Ulla Andersson will be evaluated on, and it is hostile to entrepreneurship. On point after point, the government increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is now announced, unlike previous promises, that it should not reduce companies' health pay liability but increase it. This not only increases the burden on businesses, but also makes it more difficult for those with a history of illness to return to the labour market. Ulla Andersson seems to have her own banknote press. We see this in the rhetoric and in the various proposals put forward by the Left Party. Anyone who listens to the debate naturally wonders: Who will pay? Everyone understands that Ulla Andersson does not have a banknote press of her own, even if it sounds like that. The person who will pay is you and me; it is Swedish citizens. According to the latest budget, it is the midwives, the first teachers and absolutely crucial groups for the core of welfare who will pay this in the form of higher taxes. Which is the next group to pay, Ulla Andersson? Where's the limit for how much tax you can charge? Is there such a limit for the Left Party? We Liberals are clear in our budget. We highlight a reform agenda for more jobs. We see the importance of competitive companies, because it is in companies prosperity and jobs are created. For many people, having a business is also a great feeling of freedom. If there are many companies and if people allow their businesses to grow, very much depends on what rules we set in politics, and on point after point the government is now going in the wrong direction with the help of the Left Party. When will the proposals from Ulla Andersson come with better rules for companies?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-285	Mr President, I would like to A great deal can be said about liberal tax policy, but one cannot say that it is there to equalise economic differences. 80% of your proposals on reduced taxes go to the 20% with the highest income. That is not what our country needs. We know so well that increased economic gaps have and have major consequences for the trust and security of a society, even for school results. Children perform less well in school when there are major economic gaps in a society. The Liberals also know that. I do not want liberal tax policy. I think it is reasonable for people with high incomes to contribute more than they do today. They have benefited from your tax-sink policy while all those who depend on welfare have seen it tightened up. We have seen how women's living conditions have deteriorated and how economic differences between men and women have increased. I had expected a slightly different view of our common social security policies with the Liberals. That the Liberals would compete with the Moderates to lower the unemployment fund, I would never have believed. Nor would I have thought that you would hunt sick people and tax them in the way you do. Unlike the Liberals, the Moderates and several others in this room, we propose funding for our expanded welfare. The Moderates want 2,000 more policemen, but they don't fund their reform. It's not taking responsibility for the state's finances. If you propose something, you should also fund it, and those with the highest income can contribute more than they do today. It is not reasonable that we, as the only industrial country, should not have either property tax, inheritance tax or property tax.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-291	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson may, of course, use her speaking time in the Riksdag for whatever she wants and speak in the way she wants. However, I am a little saddened, and I think her speech speaks quite a lot for itself. She is happy to discuss and criticize our proposals, but is constantly slipping towards saying that as a motive behind our proposals we would have to hunt, beat and represent the evil itself. Our proposals aim to ensure that people get to work and that we have a better country for everyone to live in. I would not dream of claiming that Ulla Andersson has motives of the same nature as she paints that the various parties of the Alliance have in this debate. Calling parties tax evasion parties and so on is bad. Some of the criticisms raised by Ulla Andersson are reflected quite a lot in the policy she herself supports. Our proposal to be able to learn the job at work, to have 75 per cent jobs and 25 per cent education and receive 75 per cent of the collective wage, is contained in the government and Left Party policies presented to the Riksdag. It's called a YA job. But these are surrounded by a huge number of bureaucratic obstacles, which has led to the fact that it is not the jobs that have been hoped for. Ulla Andersson is behind this – what she calls herself to work for free. A few years ago it was the RUT deduction and that people are rolled in luxury and one and the other. Now the Left Party is involved in expanding the RUT deduction. There is talk of penalising sick people, but you are on a budget that maintains the employment tax deduction, Ulla Andersson. Anyone who has earned income gets a lower tax rate – you are behind this. A little restraint in tone, I think, is appropriate.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-297	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Christian Democrats stand up for the right of other people to express themselves and to criticise the policies of other parties. I think it is reasonable, in a debate on economic policy, to make the options on the table visible. That is what I was trying to do in my speech. I find it deeply problematic that all bourgeois parties systematically propose lower wages in the Swedish labour market. They claim to want to protect and defend the Swedish model but, at the same time, threaten to go in with legislation if the social partners do not obey what the bourgeois parties say. We have problems in the Swedish labour market today, partly because you, Jakob Forssmed, have not trained people sufficiently so that they can take the jobs that are available. However, we also have major problems with precarious employment and many temporary and part-time jobs that lead to people having far too low wages and incomes today. I think it would be nice if the bourgeoisie saw this at some point, but you do not. In trade, the entry price is as low as SEK 14 860. You have different reasons every time for what you propose, Jakob Forssmed. One time it is the long-term unemployed who should have jobs at lower wages, the next time it is young and this time it is people with an immigrant background. You always want the same thing, but you don't dare to admit exactly what you really want. You want lower wages in the Swedish labour market, and you are fighting feverishly to achieve that. You're talking about lower thresholds, but it's actually lower wages. All your proposals are based on that. I wish you had a more humane attitude towards people who are sick. The people who have been hunted through your precipice over these years have been stressed, pressed and violated, and I do not wish any human being to be subjected to it.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-302	Mr President, I would like to I think this illustrates quite well what I said in my line. We don't want any more jobs, and we just want to destroy people, of course it's not. My whole commitment to politics is based on people getting into work and becoming part of the community. That is the absolute best way to combat divides – that is my conviction. We can then discuss whether or not the proposal will lead to this. The Left Party obviously has a different view. We will see what people believe most in – The Left Party's view of how we get more jobs in Sweden or the Alliance and Christian Democrats. I would like to take that debate with the Left Party. It glides all the time over to the motives behind it. I must say that I find this a regrettable development in the debate.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-305	Mr President, I would like to I regret that you are so strongly criticising the visibility of your economic policy, Jakob Forssmed. For example, when you look at what is an effective economic policy, you see that public investment is far more effective than tax cuts. If you look at your previous budgets from when you were in the government, you can see that the job tax deduction was your main so-called job proposal. It was self-financed to 30 percent, i.e. seven out of ten SEK went to something completely different from job creation. It was your top job policy. We can do it much better than that – we have seen the consequences it has had. We have a neglected infrastructure, we have a childcare facility that is not extended in the evenings, nights and weekends, we have an elderly care that goes on our knees and we have a welfare that is looking for more resources to improve quality and get more employees. You could have achieved this if you had not always given priority to reducing the tax. Lowering the tax was also the reason why you deteriorated and destroyed the unemployment fund, and you financed your tax cuts by introducing the backlog. It had consequences for an enormous number of people, and they still suffer from it today. I'm glad the precipice's gone now. I wish we could have a tax system where equal tax is paid on equal income, because it is not reasonable as it stands today. Sick, unemployed and on parental leave pay much more tax than those who are lucky enough to be healthy and have a job. I hope that one day we will get to grips with this. I will do what I can to get us there, and I think many more people want to. We are taking step by step in the right direction for so long, in order to achieve a more equal society and an expanded welfare.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-311	Mr President, I would like to It does not belong to the conventions of a debate to address a Member who does not participate in the debate. However, since he is in the Chamber, I would like to address a few words to Erik Ullenhag, who has resigned from his post as a political spokesperson for the Liberals. Erik Ullenhag is a good opponent. He is knowledgeable, principled and honest in debates. It has been fun to debate against him, but it has also felt safe to have talks with him, not least on the issues where we have been far from each other. Erik Ullenhag now places his services at the disposal of Sweden in another role, namely as ambassador and advocate for Swedish ideals and Swedish interests in Amman in the Middle East. I know it will be good for Sweden that Erik takes on this difficult job. So from one old student at the Cathedral School in Uppsala to another: great luck in your new assignment! I know you're going to do a great job for Sweden.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-314	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy is strong. However, to remain strong, clear action is needed. It requires change and that we do not sit back. For even a good economic situation creates challenges. Just as good times are to be used to equip themselves for the future, the former government should have used the worse times to equip us for today's situation. But in Sweden we see a shortage of labour in more and more areas. The unemployed are not equipped to take the jobs that are now emerging because tax cuts were put ahead of training efforts. The matching gap is a debt that may take considerably longer to set off than the budget deficit. And when the refugee crisis struck last autumn, the underinvestments in preschools, schools, health centres and social services became apparent. The margins for municipalities and county councils were small even before the refugee crisis because tax cuts were put before investments in our common welfare. The housing shortage was also clear even before the refugee crisis. It makes it impossible for people to move to where jobs are now emerging, and businesses find it difficult to recruit. This hole is now gradually filled again as cranes rise in more and more places, but the pace of construction needs to increase even more. Even though the bourgeois parties have now chosen to leave the housing talks, the government will take the necessary steps to get the building up. For this we have just presented 22 points today. A prerequisite for tackling these challenges is having a bottom plate, respecting the fiscal frameworks and a clear direction forward. Mr President, I would like to The budget deficit has been significantly reduced, even when the economic cycle is taken into account. Structural savings are strengthened. The path towards balance and surplus is set. Government debt decreases as a proportion of GDP during the term of office, and we remain within the expenditure ceilings. All this is happening despite a sharp increase in the cost of asylum and refugee policy. This development is in stark contrast with the years of bourgeois government. Then the deficits increased. Now we've reduced them. Then structural savings weakened. Now we've strengthened it again. We are now pursuing a tight fiscal policy. We do this in the knowledge of which people are most affected when leaving the fiscal framework wind by wave. It's a bill that one day has to be paid. And we do it because we understand that order and order are the basis for taking further initiatives that strengthen people's security and private finances. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy is doing well. We have the highest growth rate in over four years – among the highest in Europe and higher than in the United States. Growth is driven by increased private investment, increased private consumption, increased public consumption and strengthened foreign trade. We see economic growth on a broad front. Compared to when the government took office, about 110 000 more people have a job to go to. The employment rate is the highest in Europe. The number of hours worked is increasing. Unemployment is falling and youth unemployment is at the lowest level since the financial crisis. Housing construction is growing strongly, and purchasing power is increasing among both wage earners and pensioners. Sweden is doing well. The question is what do we do with this? What are we gonna do with the good times? My answer to that question is that we will build Sweden strongly for the future. We will develop the Swedish model. That is what lies ahead. What the government proposes is that we conduct a responsible policy and use the good times to equip ourselves for worse times by keeping order in public finances, strengthening Swedish welfare and investing for the future. To ensure that municipalities and county councils can do their job while investing in more training places and jobs for the future is to do just that. The Swedish model should be secured and developed. What the bourgeois parties propose is something quite different. In a glorious boom, they, not least the Moderates, choose to present budgets which essentially aim to further stimulate the economy through unevenly distributed tax cuts. Continued tax cuts take precedence over responsibility. Continued tax cuts take precedence over investments in health care, school and long-term care. This is strange, not least in these times. When we have just had the most extensive reception of refugees in modern times, resources should go to tax cuts instead of hiring more teachers and nurses and building housing. Despite the boom and despite the refugee crisis, more resources will be allocated to the short-term stimulation of the economy through tax cuts. How did this come about? The Moderates have not yet settled with their idea that constant stimulation by tax cuts is the universal tool, whether it is recession or boom. Regardless of the problem area, regardless of analysis and regardless of the question, the Moderates have the answer: tax cuts! Mr President, I would like to In two days, the British will go to a referendum. The UK is one of Sweden's most important partners. This applies to our foreign trade, and it is evident from the nearly 100 000 Swedes who are currently living and working in the UK. With Brexit, Sweden would lose a stable and strong ally in the question of how the EU should develop. We defend the right of each Member State to choose its own role within the Union. A British withdrawal would be detrimental to the UK, Sweden and the whole of the European Union. It is our deepest hope, broadly in Swedish politics, that Britain will remain in the Union. But it is clear: The most important thing is not game theory and above all not speculation. The most important thing is to learn for the future. And quite regardless of the outcome of the referendum, there are lessons to be learned, also for us here at home in Sweden. It is clear that a policy that places responsibility for its own challenges elsewhere, for example on the institutions of Brussels, can bite you in the tail before you know it. A policy that tries to take short-term political gains by suspecting people from other countries is a game with fire. A policy that does not put the security and welfare of ordinary employees at the forefront creates conflicts and reduces confidence in politics. It is clear that the EU must be able to overcome gaps, strengthen people's ability to provide their own livelihoods and contribute to increased confidence in the future. A Europe that does not will sooner or later experience this type of crisis. That is why we need a policy in Sweden, in our neighbouring countries and at European level that focuses on reducing gaps and strengthening our competitiveness and not on pitting people against each other. This development is not fatal either in politics or in the economy. The understanding that we can jointly change and improve is, in all its simplicity, perhaps the most important message that we can give and the most important conclusion of the referendum that takes place on Thursday, regardless of the outcome.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-334	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say two things. I too would like to thank Erik Ullenhag, a good friend and a wise colleague. We'll miss you, despite your excellent successor. Then I would like to say what I should have said in my main speech: I naturally support the moderate reservation in the Committee on Finance's report. Then to the Minister for Finance! That we disagree in substance, break ideas and discuss with each other is reasonable in the activities we do. What I do not understand, however, is the strategy you have for Sweden. It is more reasonable and easier to have respect for an opponent who, admittedly, stands for something other than what you think but is consistent and has a clear idea that you can follow. But that is not the case with you. As far as health insurance is concerned, we have just heard that you have now raised the fallen cape, because we did nothing about health insurance. It did not sound that way during its holidays. We did a lot, and you were against everything we did. We took down the perimeter, you wanted it up. Now you seem to be doing just that. Instead, you are putting all that into the contract; the tight reins are to be kept by companies and employers, not by public insurance. On the tax issue, you were dead against the job tax deductions. Now you're for pretty much everything. But you're accusing us of carrying out the job tax deductions. You claim that this would be an incentive, when we all know that it is, of course, a structural reform in Swedish working life with 120 000 new jobs. Fredrik Olovsson suggested that the new idea would be that increased marginal taxes provide more jobs. I would like to see that recommendation from the IMF, the OECD and everyone else. I do not understand the basic economic idea behind your policy, the Minister for Finance.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-340	Mr President, I would like to The basic economic idea of the policies of the Social Democrats and the Government is very clear. We believe in a cohesive society. We make sure that everyone who grows up in Sweden and everyone who is in Sweden has the opportunity to develop according to their conditions, based on who they are and based on their dreams. By creating systems in the way we have done in Sweden, with general preschool, good schools, homework help for all children and the opportunity to complement education throughout life if you failed the first time you went to school, we create opportunities for everyone to grow and develop. By having a clear investment policy, we create the conditions for Swedish companies to grow, export and find the right skills within the workforce. This is a social model that has attracted increasing interest in the international organisations in recent times. Organisation after organisation that can hardly be considered as left-wing think tanks, such as the IMF and OECD, highlights the Swedish model and the Nordic welfare states as examples of societies that succeed in combining small gaps, high prosperity and high labour participation. That is the basis for the Swedish model, which has been developed by us Social Democrats. This is the model that we now want to develop for this century to ensure that everyone who has the opportunity to grow up in Sweden also has the opportunity to grow and develop their full potential. That is the basis, not only for our economic policy, but also for our ideology.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-343	Mr President, I would like to But the Minister of Finance, with all due respect! The higher the marginal tax rate, the higher the employment rate – show me the OECD or IMF report that points to that link! It doesn't exist. It's a fictional thing. It doesn't exist at all. The brave thing is not to defend your model. The brave thing is to see the strength of the model and see what weaknesses our time proves in the model and dare to reform the model. It's brave. Then you can stand by what you think and still understand that something has happened that requires us to do something different tomorrow if it is not to get worse than it is today. A clear example is integration. You started hard that integration policy was completely unnecessary. It was not your only one, but one of your few similarities with the Swedish Democrats – integration policy is not needed, and the Minister for Integration is not needed. It was not a central challenge for Sweden. Then you have changed your position on the formal question, namely that it is certainly necessary. Then you have changed your position on simple jobs. They're needed, but they were wrong before. Then you have changed your position on the RUT reform. It was wrong before. But it is needed today. There is a lack of basic strategy. Economic policy – I believe that the Finance Minister knows – is not primarily the excelle, but it is the content of all other policy proposals that are being put forward that create economic policy. If we do not have a coherent economic policy, we cannot solve the problems we face. I think you're a little naked in the face of the challenges of our time.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-348	Mr President, I would like to Here, Ulf Kristersson may decide. Is he critical of the fact that we are not developing the Swedish model and is he critical of the fact that we are not able to make new positions, or is he critical of the fact that we are making new positions? You can't be critical of both things at the same time. Of course we see the need to develop the Swedish model. That is exactly what we are doing with our policy. What the IMF and the OECD show is that it is very clear that if a policy is pursued which mainly stimulates them with the highest incomes, there will be less return on this incentive in the form of better GDP than in the groups with lower incomes. It is precisely the policy that you pursued when you were in a position of government, in which you were mainly responsible for stimulating those who already have much. What we have done in our policy when we have tried to create a Sweden that stays together is also to ensure that people with lower incomes have the opportunity to consume. It is a better policy for boosting growth. If we look at taxes, it is very clear that those countries in the world that have a little higher taxes are also those that have a little higher employment rates. It's about how to use the tax money. If you take the taxes wisely and use them wisely, then overall you get a very good policy. That is what both the IMF and the OECD are now showing. Ulf Kristersson mentioned health insurance, and it is absolutely true that we were critical of the reforms that were carried out. However, they were mainly carried out before Ulf Kristersson became Minister. But what happened when Ulf Kristersson became Minister of Social Security was that the curve changed, from the number of sick people had decreased, they increased again. What Ulf Kristersson himself says he did then was to paste these curves onto his wall. That is a good thing, but in fact he did not take so many steps to reduce sickness rates during his years as a minister.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-355	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you here in the Swedish Parliament, Erik Ullenhag, and I will do my best to replace you. Then I shall turn to asking my question to Magdalena Andersson. The Swedish labour market and the dualization of the Swedish labour market are the most important issue of our time. Young people with short education, newcomers with low education and disabled people today find it very difficult even to enter the Swedish labour market. When you, as a politician, have to think about what you can do to solve this social problem, you can listen to outside experts, and when you put forward your political proposals you can listen to the authorities and organisations involved in the proposals that you put forward as a government. Not on any of these points – listening to foreign experts or listening to referrals – is the government particularly good. When it comes to sickness tax, which means that the way back for those with a medical history will be longer, says the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, entrepreneurs and disability associations that the government's policies will make it more difficult for people to enter the labour market. We in the Liberals want to see lower entry wages that enable people to enter the labour market, learn the job at work and get a foothold on the labour market from the point of view that it is better to have a job with a lower entry salary than to be idle and go on social welfare. This position is supported by independent expert organisations, both in our country – the Council of Finance and the Institute of Economic Affairs – and by foreign assessors – the IMF, the OECD and the European Commission – who point to the same point, namely that Sweden needs to create more pathways through lower entry wages. The question then arises: what does the Minister of Finance see as the independent authorities of experts do not see, because you are presenting a policy which goes in the opposite direction?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-361	Mr President, I would like to What many expert authorities and outside experts think is that it will be cheaper to hire. The important thing is not how it becomes cheaper to hire, but that it is cheap for employers to hire people who are far from the labour market. That is an opinion that I fully share. It is also such a policy that the government is pursuing. However, we are not doing so in the same way as the Liberals, who want to risk wage cuts for broad groups. If you start to lower the wages of a group, we know that it is easily spread. Instead, we want to ensure that support is given at individual level. In the case of people who have difficulties entering the labour market, it should be easy and cheap for an employer to hire these people via support. It is a good policy, and it is a cost-effective policy. The problem with broad wage cuts, as proposed by the Liberals, is that the bill will then instead come through subsistence subsidies as we would have many people who have a job that they cannot live on. The problem is also that it is not at all certain that these jobs will come to people who are currently in Sweden. These jobs can go to completely other people who move to Sweden to take these jobs and who then also need to be supported with support. It can be expensive for public finances.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-366	Mr President, I would like to Let me be very clear: Liberals are not lowering wages. We are creating new ways into the labour market for groups which today are far outside and never enter. That's an essential difference. Our proposal is about lower entry wages for newcomers and for young people for a limited period of time precisely so that they will have the opportunity to enter the labour market and then move on to other jobs in the labour market. This is a very clear message, and we are sending the clear signal to the Swedish people that we are prepared to make reforms to break the long-term exclusion and dependency on subsidies. I note that the government is completely out of hand. The budget that is now on our table lacks proposals in the direction that the Minister for Finance is talking about. You raise the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship by 30 billion. You are not making reforms to create more simple jobs in the Swedish labour market. And the Minister for Finance refuses to listen to the criticism, both in terms of the sickness tax and in terms of the recommendations on lower entry wages. If Swedish municipalities and county councils, entrepreneurs in Sweden and associations of people with disabilities think that your proposal on sickness tax makes it more difficult for people to enter the labour market, why does the Minister of Finance not listen to that criticism? If outside assessors and Swedish expert authorities – even the government's own fiscal council – say that there is a need to reduce entry wages for new arrivals and for those with short training, why do you not listen to such recommendations and why do you not listen to the criticism? The Minister for Finance owes the answer to all these questions, and I note that there are far too few concrete reforms in the budget that create more ways into the labour market for people. Then my final question is: why do you not listen to the criticism? Why don't you listen to the recommendations?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-372	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mats Persson did not answer the question. What he proposes can be very expensive. If we reduce wages in the way the Liberals want, then we do not know where these jobs go. These jobs may as well go to new groups that come in, who are unable to make a living and who are then entitled to support for their livelihoods. It can cost an enormous amount of money. That is precisely the debate that is currently taking place in Britain. However, it should be cheap to hire. There the government is very enthusiastic about the fact that it should be easy and cheap for employers to hire people who are far from the labour market. There are a number of measures here, and the government also has new proposals. There are entry-level jobs, there are start-up jobs, we are expanding the trainee services, we are expanding the training contracts, we are expanding the additional services, there are more people who will have the opportunity to work with wage subsidies, we are expanding labour market training, we are expanding Komvux, vocational adult and polytechnics, and we are facing state preparedness jobs. In addition, we have validation, competence mapping and fast track. We have a number of proposals that Mats Persson obviously did not want to listen to because he says we are without answers. Only here is a long list of suggestions on how people with a weak connection to the labour market should be given the opportunity to enter. Mats Persson says you don't want to cut wages. You want new ways in through lower entry wages. It is said that lower wages are not lower wages. Good luck getting that message out to the Swedish people!
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-376	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to take this opportunity to say a few kind words about and to my soon-to-be former parliamentary colleague, Erik Ullenhag. The Alliance in the Finance Committee has had fun together. We have developed politics in a very good way, both together and separately. You've played an important role in that job. I've learned a lot from working close to you for almost two years. I hope that it is as great a profit for the Middle East and Amman as it is a loss for Swedish politics. If that's the way it is, I think it'll be fine in the end. There are a few things to deal with in the Middle East. Mr President, I would like to When I listen to the Minister for Finance, I am struck by the change in tone that has taken place in just a year and a half. After the 2014 elections, there was talk of empty barns, mass unemployment and generally greywash in Swedish economic policy, according to the Minister of Finance. Then we got another alliance budget, the ninth in order. After it has worked, we now have great GDP growth, and we have a labour market situation that looks good. We have stable state finances, and housing construction is increasing – all of this according to the same Minister of Finance. Then you think about what was so good in the Alliance's ninth budget, what fixed all this in a year. The most likely is that the fine results have accumulated after eight nine years of wise politics under the Alliance for Sweden brand. Because we didn't solve everything in the last year, did we? But of course we have the Alliance to thank for a great deal when it comes to getting housing on the right track, in terms of improving the labour market situation and in terms of safeguarding public finances.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-381	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that the government has not conducted an alliance labour market policy. We have had a different labour market policy from day one, when we entered the Government Office. It's about how we run Arbetsförmedlingen. We have not pursued an alliance policy either. We have been pursuing more active industrial policy from the first day, when we entered the Government Office. I would also like to remind you that, over a year ago, we submitted an additional amending budget to Parliament. It then came into force during the summer and last autumn. If we had had a bad economic policy, it would have had an impact already a year ago. However, public finances are in much better shape than they were when the alliance government handed over. Last autumn we presented a budget with a very tight framework. The alliance parties then joined that framework. We note that the framework laid down by the alliance parties in their draft budgets was much tighter than the framework ever laid by the Alliance when they were in government. This government pursues a responsible policy, not only in opposition but also in government. We have continued to do so in this budget. That is why we see that public finances have been strengthened and that structural savings have been strengthened. But, of course, public finances are affected by our very large reception of refugees. Then the question is to Emil Källström : In your budget motion you do not propose any additional resources for an increased reception of refugees, even though many more people would apply for asylum in Sweden with your refugee and migration policy. You haven't taken any heights for that in the budget bill. Why not?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-386	Mr President, I would like to In our budget motion we obviously follow the forecasts that the Migration Agency provides us with. It's the same for all parties. We also see the costs of migration and integration considerably in the seams. We are proposing substantial improvements and savings, but we also recognise how uncertain matter this is. That goes for everyone. The Minister of Finance himself had to add 30 billion to the Migration Agency. It would not occur to me to accuse the Minister of Finance of being unserious on this particular point. It is quite natural because it is such uncertain matter that we must all relate to. Mr President, I am sure I noted that I gave the Finance Minister the opportunity to be a little humble about the way in which the strong economy, which we still have, has developed. I think it has emerged from an interplay between many responsible governments, from Göran Persson's budgets in the 1990s as well as nine alliance budgets until today. However, the Minister of Finance cannot, throughout his term of office, thank himself and his own government for the fact that the Alliance's policy, our labour market and housing policy, is now spilling over into improvements and changes during this term of office. The questions remain. What are their own projects? What are your own target images that you set up and want to check off? Some we know. We know that the objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate has largely been abandoned. There is a reason why the Minister of Finance is no longer talking about it. We know that the objective, as we saw at the DN Debate in January, to achieve a substantial re-regulation and improvement of the Swedish housing market ended with a number, a few, marginal proposals that will do neither to nor from. The great projects shine with their absence. You won't be in government for more than a period of time.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-392	Mr President, I would like to I suppose it remains to be seen whether you sit more than a period or not. The opinion figures for this government are considerably better than they usually are for governments in mid-term elections. And the opinion numbers are slightly different for different alliance parties. When it comes to housing, we do not get along in the housing talks. It is sad that the bourgeois parties chose to leave the talks. But that does not prevent us from having a good basis for the large housing package that the government has presented today. We have presented a comprehensive reform proposal today. This includes 22 points for how to get up the housing building. And it will change the conditions for building housing in Sweden. Some proposals are completely new, including that we should make clearer demands on the municipalities for them to plan for the accommodation. We want to shorten the planning process. We want to make it easier for serially manufactured houses. There are a number of different measures in the proposal. It is also good that we know that we will have support for them in Parliament. On the other hand, we do not share the alliance parties' view that investment aid that is now available to build new rentals should be dismantled. We don't want the income of the calls to be less. We want more to be built. It will also be possible to do so with the comprehensive proposal that we have put forward today. It is slightly different from the alliance government that set up 63 investigations but made two concrete proposals.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-397	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor when Magdalena Andersson spoke about Erik Ullenhag. I'm not going to go against what you said, Magdalena Andersson, or ask what you think best about Erik Ullenhag. I simply note that I regard Erik Ullenhag as a very good friend. I would like to thank Erik for his great efforts for the Alliance but also for Sweden, in the many talks that have been held with the government. Erik is a wise politician, a curious politician, an applicant politician – in the best sense of the word. He is trying to find ways forward for difficult social problems and is not just clinging to rhetoric and simplicity. I've appreciated that a lot. Erik is a person with a warm heart. I note that, for my part, life is somewhat darkened, but it is getting brighter in the Middle East. That's good. And it will be good for Sweden to have Erik there. So to my question. Sweden is doing well. But it is a bit like a mineral powder that hides the government's problems, namely – which has also been discussed in previous replicas – that the economic cycle hides the fact that we have the two-tier labour market that the government cannot access. The Government listed a number of reforms, but there has been nothing of them. You seem to be continuing along the same lines: trainee services, extra services and state green preparedness jobs. They say there will be tens of thousands of new jobs, but then there will be only a few hundred. Where are your great ambitions? When are they coming? The Prime Minister has said that reforms will be introduced to achieve the unemployment target. According to the Ministry of Finance's forecasts, the target is in practice doomed. Will this really be enough? Do you think that these proposals will solve this with the dual labour market and push unemployment down to the lowest level in the European Union?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-404	Mr President, I would like to From the time we entered Rosenbad and the Government Office, the government has been working on measures to reduce unemployment. We have also presented a number of different proposals. Among other things, it is a question of pursuing a more active economic policy. We have redeployed state venture capital. We are investing more in export promotion measures. We are also expanding the opportunities for smaller companies to take part in state venture capital, and we are pursuing a more active dialogue with the business community. It is a question of increasing investment. Among other things, we have significantly increased investment in housing construction, which is extremely important for people to be able to move to where the jobs are. It is also about raising the skills of the labour force in Sweden because we know that the matching gap, the recruitment gap is one of the major problems in the Swedish labour market today. That is why we have implemented a major extension of education policy. Of course, this will not be enough, but we will have further proposals in every budget proposal that we put forward to bring down unemployment. We will not sit back until there is full employment in Sweden. That is what drives government policy forward.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-407	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little worried about the answer. There are a number of things that we have now heard for a long time, but we can see that the division is deepened. The proposals don't bite. The trainee jobs, extra services, guarantees, state preparedness jobs and so on that would be created does not have that effect. After two years the concept of simple jobs has been taken into its mouth. Let's see what it's gonna be. Perhaps this is the beginning of a reversal in which one really sees the problems of the two-way labour market. More and more people are increasingly away from the labour market and find it more difficult to get in there. Then we need training, yes, but we also need reforms that actively and effectively lower the thresholds. That's where we did too little. I'll admit it. We believed too much in YA jobs as a reform, but they didn't work as well as we thought. But then we must also think about how we can develop this. How can we take the next step? How can we lower the thresholds into the labour market? There the government does not have the answer today. Then my question is: will those answers come in the autumn budget?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-410	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that employment is increasing for both domestic and foreign born, and that is very positive. But we should not in any way settle down with this; it is about continuing to work. The YA jobs and the trainee jobs take time to expand. It is about giving municipalities and other employers good conditions and conditions for hiring people. Therefore, we have also expanded the circle of people who will be able to have trainee jobs. We also see the increase in extra services in welfare. When it comes to hiring people who are far removed from the labour market by means of various forms of subsidies, we probably need to develop those systems to make it easier for employers. Employers often feel that the rules are a bit complicated, but it is important to make them easier so that it becomes attractive for employers to hire. That is our alternative to reducing the wages of broad employee groups. It is more effective and more gentle for the public purse to ensure that support is directed towards those individuals who have difficulties in the labour market and who need support to get into it. But no one should be mistaken for the government's ambition. We'll never settle down. We will continue to make new proposals until the day we see that we have full employment in Sweden.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-415	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank Erik Ullenhag for his efforts in Swedish politics. I would also like to thank Magdalena Andersson for the way in which she thanked Mrs Ullenhag. I think it was in a real and positive way. During the years when Sweden's economic policy rested on the Alliance's budgets, Sweden went from being a country with empty barns to becoming a country that went like a Tesla. Unfortunately, neither society nor politics are so simple, so black or white. Sweden today has major challenges, and they will not be fewer or less in the future. We have a two-way labour market between people in town and country, between high and low-skilled, between young and elderly, between foreign and domestic born. We have an unemployment rate of over 50% among foreign born people in many places today. The government seems to be in a position to face this major challenge. We have a climate crisis that requires us to combine increased economic growth with less emissions. The growth of regions and municipalities is out of step with each other. All parts of our country are simply not given sufficient conditions to grow. But Sweden also has great opportunities. Throughout the country, ideas are transformed into small and growing companies that create jobs. Our climate emissions are falling while economic growth is increasing. Many of Sweden's dynamic locations are located outside the metropolitan areas, and it shows that with the right conditions, the whole of Sweden can grow. Sweden has great opportunities to become a winner in the economy of the future. However, this requires important reforms. The task of politics is to see the challenges and tackle them before the problems grow big. The Swedish economy faces two challenges in particular. Firstly, the number of jobs is not growing fast enough, despite the fact that we are now entering a boom. Secondly, the pressure on public expenditure is very high, not least because of inefficient labour market policies and growing sick leave rates. Despite the boom, the employment rate is expected to fall and unemployment to rise in 2017. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish job creation potential is found in small and growing companies. In my county of Jämtland, nine out of ten have had jobs created in these small companies for several years. Happily, that figure seems to be the one that will apply nationally. It shows the need to focus on these job-creating actors in policy making. In order to combat both division and exclusion, the Swedish labour market must be opened up to more people. It should be easier to start and build up the small company and it should be cheap to hire your first person. We from the Center Party propose that the employer's contribution for the first employee be removed. The service sector must continue to be expanded with an extended RUT deduction as a key component. That is how we achieve inclusive growth and that is how we get reforms to correct the two-way labour market. Mr President, I would like to No matter where you live – in the countryside, in smaller towns, in the suburbs or in the inner city – you should have the same opportunities to live, work and run businesses. Rural areas and cities share many challenges with each other. Equivalent opportunities throughout the country do not automatically imply uniformity. The same challenges can be solved in different ways in different parts of the country. The policy therefore needs to be designed with an understanding that the conditions are different in different parts of the country. Sweden is a global environmental standard. Under both the alliance government and previous governments, economic growth increased while our climate emissions decreased. The Swedish economy is one of the most climate-efficient economies in the world. Sweden has proven that economic growth can take place in parallel with less environmental impact and that the environment and economic growth thus go hand in hand. The Center Party wants to see a broad reform programme to reduce emissions and shift the vehicle fleet, reduce toxins in our daily lives and increase renewable energy production, which includes proposals to introduce vehicle fuel obligation schemes but also a bonus – the malus system for cars and heavier vehicles, improved conditions for large-scale and small-scale renewable energy production, and increased investment in both charging infrastructure and energy storage. Mr President, I would like to We need a fresh start with green tax exchange. It is a change that the current government has unfortunately left behind. Instead of increasing the tax on environmentally harmful activities and reducing it on jobs, you increase everything. The tax on jobs and entrepreneurship is increased six times more than the tax on environmental pollution. What the government is doing is not a green tax shift, but a real red tax increase. In government positions between 2006 and 2014, the Center Party contributed to a significant reduction in taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. At the same time, environmental taxes were increased. But there is much more to be done. The tax on labour represents more than 1 100 billion of the tax burden in Sweden – the tax on pollution is just over 70 billion. This has increased drastically over the course of this year, with the budgetary policy and the budget that we now have to relate to. The government is running a negative green tax shift. And this seems to continue, Mr President. The previously criticised mileage tax on heavy goods transport has gone from a bad proposal to a completely lousy one. In the past, the government parties have had as a starting point that the penalty tax would be in the order of SEK 14 mil for truck transport. Last week it became known that the Government's Road Wear Tax Committee is now announcing a proposal that involves significantly higher expenses and costs: SEK 26 million. The proposal is a criminal tax at a distance that does not take account of environmental benefits and has major negative consequences for those living in rural areas and for Swedish industry, especially for forests as an important basic industry. My appeal to the government is clear: Dispose of the investigation's work in the trash! Put aside the idea of mileage tax! Mr President, I would like to The need for transparency and transparency in public finances cannot be stressed enough. Well-functioning, well-founded, relevant and easily accessible information is central to all policy areas. The Alliance government reported on the impact of policies in a number of areas, including employment. The importance of a good accounting of tax expenditure to the Riksdag has been highlighted in several reviews, including by the Swedish National Audit Office and the Council for Fiscal Policy. The fact that the government now chooses not to account for socio-economic effects is part of a pattern that raises criticism from an increasingly broad range. For the government, an analysis of tax changes should be crucial in order to allow for a priority between different expenditures. This is achieved only when a change in tax expenditure is followed by a broad and in-depth analysis based to the greatest extent possible on robust empirical evidence. Finally, Mr President, Sweden needs an economic policy that takes responsibility for the future. The Swedish economy has a great need for innovation. The Center Party does not shy away from that challenge. We know that responsible reforms in the coming years will ensure that Sweden will continue to belong to the world's richest, most innovative and safest countries for decades to come. Like Emil Källström, I would like to support the Center Party's budget motion. I would also like to support the joint reservation of the Centre Party and the Moderates in the Sku25 report on tax expenditure.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-440	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the reports on the Economic Policy Guidelines and Accounting for Tax Expenditure 2016. With regard to the broad economic policy guidelines, I would like to refer to what my party colleague, Ulf Kristersson, has said in the previous debate. In my speech, I will focus on tax issues. I would like to begin by calling for the joint reservation of the Moderate Party and the Center Party in the report on the accounting of tax expenditure, and I have done the difficult part. Mr President, I would like to It is a challenging time in Swedish politics, in Europe and around the world. Sweden is a small and open country on the outskirts of Europe. We are extremely dependent on what is happening in the world around us. There are probably few times before that it has been so clear that we need order and order and strength to be able to handle both challenges that we can see coming and events that are more difficult to predict. We need to build dikes and robust systems. Not least in the wake of our large refugee reception, employment policy and public finances are being tested. We need to encourage jobs, entrepreneurship and rigour. It is not too late to do anything about the new alienation that we see emerging. But it takes courage and will. It takes work for driving forces – without ideological blindings. It is only when it pays to work that we are able to really help those in greatest need. At this time, it is particularly serious that the government is unable to address Sweden's challenges. Every day, every delayed bill and no reform proposal, it becomes increasingly clear that the government lacks a plan. But there is a clear red line in government policy, and that is a consistent increase in taxes on jobs and growth. This concerns the social security contributions for young people and the income tax for a very large number of people. It's about ROT and RUT. This applies to special payroll tax for the elderly. You name it! It is breathtaking 32 billion in tax increases in 2016 that will amount to 38 billion in 2019. This happens in a context where we see big challenges and it is crucial that we get more people who work – not less. When we need more people who can go from grants to jobs and entrepreneurship, then the government chooses a path that makes it more expensive to hire, less profitable to work and more advantageous to not work. It is a policy that does not show the way out of the new exclusion. Mr President, I would like to The government's tax increases are hitting the everyday lives of ordinary households. Over 1 million employees e receive increased income taxes – 37 per cent of midwives. For a family with two adult middle-income earners who use RUT and drive a car, the government's tax increases will cost a total of about SEK 15,000 a year. Choosing to go after RUT and ROT is a mystery when you claim to have a job agenda. The RUT reform created 20,000 new jobs. In addition, three out of four of those jobs went to people who came directly from unemployment. RUT has created a completely new industry, where women, often born abroad, often start businesses. Half of all women who run companies in the RUT sector were born outside Sweden. This compares with all entrepreneurs, where the figure is 16%. This reform, which has undoubtedly created jobs and opportunities for entrepreneurship, chooses the government to roll back. It is a very damaging strategy, and it is a remarkable priority. Mr President, I would like to Now my colleagues from the government will say that we should not only look at tax increases, but that what is important is to see what taxes are used for. They usually refer to investments. One such example of investment is SEK 0.8 billion in industrial policy. But this represents only 2%, or a very small amount of liquid in the Mississippi of all the tax increases on jobs and growth that the government has carried out. Another so-called investment is the trainee services. They didn't get that much either. So you take from space that creates jobs and invests in measures that do not create jobs. It will cost us dearly. This analysis is shared by the government's own economic experts who bring out massive criticism of economic policy. The Institute of Economics estimates that government policies lead to a lasting reduction in the number of employed by 15,000 to 20,000 people. The Council of Finance Ministers criticises the government's total unwillingness to recognise and expect increased taxes to make people less inclined to pay taxes and thus choose to work less. According to the Financial Policy Council, this means that the government will not receive at all the tax revenue that it has anticipated when it increases the tax. This, in turn, means that the scope for reform that has already been committed will not exist. In the long term, this leads to unsustainable finances. All in all, it can be said that the tax policy that the government is pursuing is not a policy for jobs. It is a policy that strikes the household economy and, in the long term, undermines public finances. Mr President, I would like to We will never support a policy that affects households. When the government implements short-term tax increases that fail to meet welfare funding, together with our colleagues in the Alliance, we present a plan that makes sense. At the heart of this plan is that the economy is growing, that more people are coming to work and that it pays to work. That is why we are spending EUR 9 billion a year on reducing the tax on those who have low incomes. If we are to safeguard the welfare of the future, there must be more of us who contribute through work. Works are created in companies. The well-being and competitiveness of businesses are a prerequisite for tomorrow's security. We must bear this in mind in every political decision. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I intend to come into the government's accounting of tax expenditure in 2016. The letter chooses to try to analyse two tax expenditures: ROT work and the investment savings account. Given the large number of changes in tax expenditure carried out in 2016, it is unfortunate that it does not choose to analyse more expenditure. It is also serious that the two analyses carried out show clear shortcomings. There is no long-term impact on tax revenues, the risk of undeclared work and the conditions for serious businesses. Transparency and openness are fundamental elements of our democracy. Access to relevant information is a prerequisite for democratic scrutiny of the policies pursued. With the government taking office in 2014, this transparency has decreased, and the effects of its own policies are not fully reported. In our reservation, we sincerely hope that, from next year onwards, a broader analysis will be carried out with an account of the socio-economic efficiency and employment effects of individual tax expenditure. Government policy must be able to withstand such scrutiny.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-461	Mr President, I would like to The economic debate can sometimes become a lot of figures and technology. However, as the debate has shown here today in particular, very many of the objectives we set ourselves are dependent on economic policy. Today we are debating the economic policy guidelines put forward in the government's spring bill. They are central to a large part of the policies that we pursue and are enabling the necessary investments, as supporters of our agenda for more equality, and as promoters of good and sustainable economic development and combating unemployment. A key element of economic policy is tax policy. As stated in the Government proposal, fiscal policy is primarily aimed at financing the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. In addition, fiscal policy will contribute to sustainable growth, high employment and fair distribution of wealth and contribute to an environmentally and socially sustainable society. Mr President, I would like to When we took over government power after the elections, we inherited large deficits in public finances and, at the same time, high unemployment and growing gaps. The bourgeois government, whose legacy it was, had as its basis the idea of reducing taxes almost regardless of the social problem to be solved. It didn't work. We've changed direction. Instead of reducing taxes, we invest in welfare and education, because we know that it strengthens individuals and society. We ensure that resources are distributed more fairly because equality is right, but also because we know that more equal societies are also more successful societies. As my fellow debaters have already mentioned, we are also raising taxes. We have many conflicts about it, and there is nothing strange in itself. We have different basic views about tax. Some of my bourgeois colleagues might go as far as saying that tax is stealing. And for at least one of the bourgeois parties, the resistance to taxes is absolutely fundamental. But it is possible – as Maria Malmer Stenergard said earlier that I would say – not to look at fiscal policy in isolation. It is linked to what tax revenue is used for. In fact, it is quite rare to hear bourgeois politicians standing in this Chamber advocating large reductions in the public commitment or the need for less staff in school and care. That is how we have to look at tax policy. The ambitions for welfare also require a certain level of taxation. I am not ashamed of the taxes we charge in Sweden, on the contrary. That is what has made much of the good of our society possible. There is broad support for paying high taxes after sustainability. I find it interesting, Mr President, to look back on the arguments of the bourgeois parties in the electoral movement, loudly surrounded by various interest groups. A red-green government and its tax policy would be a disaster for employment, not least for young people. Everyone may not remember today, but I do. So how'd it go? We have the lowest unemployment rate in seven years, and youth unemployment has fallen sharply. I'm not saying it's just the government and our politics. The cause and effect are a little more complicated than that, and politics is not all over it. But it says something about the flaw in the breast tones we heard in the election campaign. It may also say something that several of the bourgeois parties have let go of, for example, the reduction in employers' contributions for young people and have toned down rhetoric. However, we see in the forecasts that unemployment will increase again in the future when many new people enter the labour market at the same time. It is essential that we equip these people with training and practical skills. A very important effort is and will be the many fast tracks that have been created and also the knowledge boost that is being launched. Many more and new initiatives will also be needed to tackle the rise in unemployment. It is interesting and a little fascinating with the rhetoric that we have heard from several of the bourgeois debaters today about a two-tier labour market. This is the way to define the labour market that the bourgeois parties want to create, namely with a B-team that pushes down the wages and conditions of a group on the labour market. I am not getting it right with my understanding of what the two-tier labour market is. That is precisely what we are fighting. We are fighting a two-tier labour market that means that we have a group that will have their wages reduced and become what is called working poor. Of course, we must also combat the more or less permanent exclusion from the labour market that we can see emerging in certain groups. If you look at the groups that end up in long-term unemployment, you can see that there is something very pervasive, namely that you have short and inadequate education. That's where we need to put the stakes, and this government does. Mr President, I would like to As in the report of the Committee on Finance, the Spring Bill discusses the economic situation in our surrounding world. Sweden has gone and goes strong, but in many places we see weaker economic development. There are also financial and geopolitical threats to economic development. As a small, export-dependent country, Sweden is vulnerable to economic instability. It is therefore important that, through the economic policy we pursue, we constantly reduce the budget deficit while making efforts to strengthen economic development. I would also like to emphasise the importance of something that is a bit of a red curtain for the Moderates: unemployment insurance. After the mismanagement of bourgeois government years, we have now strengthened unemployment insurance, and there are several reasons for this. It is, of course, about the financial security of individual employees in transition, but also about facilitating labour market matching and countering downward pressure on wages. A good unemployment insurance system also acts as an automatic stabiliser in the event of a downturn. When people are not thrown into poverty if they lose their jobs, consumption is maintained and demand is reduced. It is difficult to stand ready for an economic crisis. But we take steps to be equipped if the accident strikes, and we closely follow developments in our environment. Mr President, I would like to As I said, tax policy will also contribute to an environmentally sustainable society. It is an area with great challenges, not least in terms of the climate. This is an issue that our generation of politicians must not fail to do. Sometimes it is heard in debates that Sweden accounts for such a small part of global emissions that it does not matter what we do. But then it is forgotten that we account for an even smaller part of the earth's population. What if all countries were to reason that way? It is a completely unreasonable position, and I think most people understand that. We have to face up to our responsibilities. Sweden can stand it; we have done it for a long time. We will take advantage of our role as an international example. In order for us to be able to take that responsibility for climate action, fiscal policy is important. Through it we apply the polluter pays principle and create a transition pressure that drives innovation and technological development. We simply want to increase environmental governance in tax policy. It's a responsible policy. Mr President, I would like to An increasingly important issue for tax policy is the fight against international tax evasion and tax evasion. It is by nature difficult to know exactly, but calculations show that these are staggering sums. This not only undermines the tax bases, but also distorts competition to the detriment of those serious entrepreneurs who are doing the right thing. Last autumn, the OECD presented its BEPS Action Plan. This work is now being implemented in Sweden and in other national parliaments as well as in the EU. An EU directive containing parts of the BEPS Action Plan was adopted last week by Ecofin. I hope that we can continue in the spirit that has mainly prevailed – a broad consensus that this is an important piece of work. It has sometimes wavered in recent times, but I hope we can get back there. The government will continue to take initiatives, and we are implementing, as I said, shares right now. In April, the Government presented a ten-point programme to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. This is an important issue for Sweden but also for global justice. That is why we are also actively working to be in developing countries to build a functioning tax administration there. Now I will not exceed my speaking time any more, Mr President, but I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and wish my colleagues a nice summer!
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-483	Mr President, I would like to This is a classic: When you raise the tax on alcohol, the government expects people to drink less, and when you raise the tax on tobacco you expect them to smoke less. But the government doesn't expect people to work less when you raise taxes on work! It is strange; so do expert authorities such as the Council of Finance Policy. It is also very critical that the government departs from the previous principles of accounting for the impact of its reforms, including in terms of employment and long-term public finances. The Council of Finance Ministers, in the absence of calculations by the Government, has made its own estimates of the effects of the increased taxes on labour that the Government implements. It has then been found that the tax increases have no effect whatsoever on the government's intentions. This is, of course, because it pays less to work and therefore people do not feel motivated to take an extra on-call pass or to go from allowance to work. When the government completely ignores such effects and coldly mortgages tax revenue that will never be obtained, it eventually creates a gap in the budget. Plus and minus don't add up. But they have to. Therefore, my question to the government parties is what they intend to do to close the holes. Will you borrow more than you already do today despite the fact that we are in a boom, or will you be forced to reduce welfare?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-487	Mr President, I would like to That argument is really a classic. I have heard it many times when it comes to comparisons between the tax on alcohol and tobacco and the tax on labour. But it is perhaps more a classic in debate between MUF and SSU than in this Chamber. There are a few different purposes for different tax changes. Different tax changes naturally affect people's and companies' behaviour. It is not always easy to make calculations, to be honest. We have looked at this in the Tax Committee's evaluation group when it comes to the calculation conventions and forecasts of the proceeds of the alcohol and tobacco tax and have seen that they too do not always strike quite right. Economics is dynamic, and a budget is not just a mathematical calculation. Of course, however, the impact of reforms on both the revenue and expenditure side should be monitored and evaluated. This is also being done. The letter containing a statement of tax expenditure analyses the two different areas where changes have been made. Maria Stenergard also mentioned this in her speech. I can see from the movements that have come in from the Moderates and Center Party that they are not entirely satisfied with the analyses. It may not always be possible to satisfy everyone with this type of analysis, but it is a work that will continue at both the Government Office and elsewhere. As mentioned in the report, as a committee, we also have a responsibility to monitor the impact of the reforms that we are deciding on. These are things that have been discussed in the context of this work.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-491	Mr President, I would like to There are different purposes for different reforms," says Sara Karlsson. I would very much like to know: What is the purpose of raising the tax for 1 million ordinary people? I think it is becoming increasingly clear that the government lacks a plan for the state's finances. Taxes are being increased and subsidies increased. It has stopped reporting the effects of its own policies because it is known that they are negative. With the stubbornness of a fool, the government clings to the belief in future so-called investments and counts on income that you will never have. This is a policy that digs holes in the state's wallet, and the bill goes straight to ordinary households and consumers. One way or another, they'll pay. Finally, when public finances are weakened, the weakest are also affected. If we are to fix welfare funding in the future, we need a sustainable plan. It's time for the government to present it now. I look forward to a better analysis of tax expenditure next year, in accordance with the reservations of the Moderates and the Center Party. I too would like to take this opportunity to wish you a happy summer.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-495	Mr President, I would like to Different tax changes usually have different purposes. As I mentioned in my speech, the overall aim of fiscal policy is to secure the financing of welfare. The aim of alcohol and tobacco taxes is more public health policy. There are also taxes to steer, for example, towards reduced environmental impact. It is not surprising that this is the case. As far as the results are concerned, and as far as the economy is concerned, and we are putting the country in financial crisis, as Maria Stenergard here suggests, we will have to look at the situation. Maria Stenergard spoke of hopes for future investments. They are clear that there are plans, and we are also making efforts to bring about investment, both public and private. Looking at the growth figures, growth is partly driven by increased investment, especially private investment. We can also look at the results on the labour market, where we have for some time had a sharp fall in unemployment, despite the things that many felt would be a disaster for, for example, young people's employment in the Swedish labour market. As far as public finances are concerned, we all know history. We inherited large deficits. We still have deficits, but they are decreasing for each budget. We will come back to balance in the economy. The Moderates don't have to worry about it.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-499	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats' budget motion is called Cohesion and Security. The Swedish Democrats want to work on the basis of the ambition to create a society where people feel secure and connected, where law and order prevail, where the education system works, where industry and other business have reasonable conditions, where city and country are connected and where the tax system provides driving forces for participation in the labour market. It is about offering an attractive labour market for academics as well as craftsmen, health professionals, service staff and all other professions as well. Growing small enterprises account for a very high proportion of the new jobs created in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats have an offensive strategy to make it easier for small businesses to expand, simply by reducing their costs. The so-called general wage contribution represents about one third of total employers' contributions and is an additional tax burden on labour which is very difficult for small businesses. The Swedish Democrats want to completely abolish the general payroll tax for all companies with up to nine employees. All enterprises with a total wage or salary equivalent to nine posts with an average wage or salary per employee are exempted from the general wage or salary contribution. This means that a total of 300 000 small businesses are completely exempt from the general wage levy, which gives financial scope for new entrants. Companies with a higher total wage sum pay a general wage contribution only on those parts that exceed the ceiling amount. This avoids the threshold effects that could otherwise arise when companies grow from micro- to small enterprises and on to medium-sized enterprises. The Swedish Democrats also have proposals to reform health pay liability so that the burden on small businesses is further reduced. Each company may then deduct its sickness benefits corresponding to a maximum of nine employees. All in all, it brings great reliefs that have also been appreciated according to many studies. While small businesses are important, it should be stressed that industry is an engine of the Swedish economy. The Swedish industry currently employs 650 000 people and a further 350 000 people in the industry-related services sector. The number of indirect industries that generate export and tax revenue increases is taken into account. The number of employees in industry has remained relatively stable over time, although doubts have been expressed from various quarters about the future importance of industry. The Swedish Democrats believe, however, that Sweden will need to preserve and develop its industry, and we need to provide the industry with the conditions for this. It is important to point out that it is not possible, from a political point of view, to determine in detail what kind of industries will be the winners of the future. In the end, the market rules. We believe that there is a tendency to ignore the importance of our traditional processing industries linked to forests, mines and engineering. We believe that this is wrong because these industries are deemed to be important for Sweden's economic development. The Swedish Democrats also want to pursue a policy that benefits both large and small companies. However, as much evidence suggests that new jobs in the future will be created in smaller companies, a new approach to ownership is needed. Ownership of companies should not be reserved for a small elite. In addition, private assets are an important instrument for economic development. The Swedish Democrats want to increase the ambitions of the already existing investor deduction for private individuals' opportunities to invest mainly in smaller companies. We believe that this deduction, introduced in 2013, has not yet reached its full potential. We would therefore like to stimulate, through financial incentives, increased ownership of Swedish companies and increased investment in start-ups and existing smaller companies. It provides the production of Swedish goods and services produced by Swedes in companies owned by Swedes. According to the Authority's Growth Analysis definition, approximately a quarter of Sweden's population lives in rural areas. There are about 2.3 million people in one of the 158 municipalities that can be classified as rural municipalities. The concept of rural areas includes a variety of economic, environmental and social conditions and conditions. What unites rural municipalities is that they are more marked than cities by nature, the used landscape and the sparse structures. But there is also a great variety and many different characteristics that characterise the different rural areas. There is therefore reason to talk about Sweden's rural areas instead of just one rural area. We want to pursue a policy for the whole country that benefits people no matter where they live. We perceive that many parts of Sweden feel that they are neglected and unimportant to the policy of richness. We want to change that. The Swedish Democrats are the whole of Sweden's party. This perspective is relevant to our quest for a Sweden that holds together and where people feel involved in social development. Today, many youths feel that they are forced to move out of the countryside in order to get a job, leading into a negative demographic spiral. The Swedish Democrats are responsible for a rural-friendly policy that promotes green industries and small businesses in general. It requires that economic activity in rural areas be made possible so that rural businesses are given economic opportunities to invest and employ. Training measures may also be needed so that rural businesses can actually employ competent staff when they want to expand their activities. At present, there is a larger segment of low-skilled unskilled workers – not least imported ones – that some want to support with grants and others want to create more jobs by reducing wages. Instead, the Swedish Democrats believe that a better measure is to reduce income tax for low-income earners. In our budget motion, we propose that a parliamentary committee be appointed to investigate the possibility of abolishing income tax for income of up to SEK 150 000. We also provide some examples of proposals for financing solutions that that investigation could continue to work on. Regarding the government's letter No 98, Accounting for Tax Expenditure 2016, it seems that the Social Democraticly led government intends to maintain tax incentives for companies to employ immigrants through both entry-level jobs, where companies receive a large share of the wage cost financed by the state when hiring immigrants, as new start-up jobs, where companies receive the same relief for hiring the long-term unemployed. When this was introduced, the stated objective was that new start-up jobs should also benefit immigrants, because they are over-represented in unemployment statistics. This was a reform introduced by the bourgeois government. I would think it would be better to abolish it instead of some others of the current government's tax increases. I also note that, as of this year, new start jobs will no longer be accounted for as tax expenditure, but instead on the expenditure side of the state budget, whatever it might be good for. Finally, I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2 in the FiU20 report.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-517	Mr President, I would like to The government lacks a plan for Sweden – it is quite clear. The Left Party and the Left Party Party are pushing through harmful taxes that affect households. But there the government is by no means alone. The Swedish Democrats have three proposals for financing their own reforms, which David Lång spoke long and well about. This is a total abolition of job tax deductions. It is a question of the total abolition of interest rebates. And it is a question of a massive increase in VAT. It is tax increases that strike hardworking people with quite ordinary loans with sharp precision. Why do the Swedish Democrats want to finance anti-job reforms, such as increased unemployment funds, with a triple blow to ordinary people in this way?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-520	Mr President, I would like to It seems to me that Maria Stenergard has not quite understood the meaning of our proposals. What she has now listed – job tax deductions, VAT and interest rebates – are, as we have said, proposals for financing the real job tax credit, as we are proposing. The job tax deduction means that there should be no tax on income up to SEK 150 000. It is therefore a question of replacing the current job tax credit with another job tax credit. We've been looking at the possibility of financing it. For example, it is a question of reviewing VAT rates. And maybe it should be a detachable and, in the longer term, abolished interest deduction. But here, as I said, it was a question of setting up a parliamentary committee to assess the possibility of doing so. Normally, when it comes to sharp proposals that we are putting forward in connection with the autumn budget, the bulk of what we are saving on is immigration-related. These are savings on the costly immigration of asylum and family members and the enormous mass immigration we suffered last year, not least. This is something that has been maintained for many years, not least under the bourgeois government. There's a lot to save on there. It is tragic that the bourgeois parties have not realised it before.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-523	Mr President, I would like to So, then, we stand here and square reforms that we will not implement – if we are now backing from the very proposals that we have put forward in our motion. It is an economic policy in which ordinary households become the big losers. VAT increases. The job tax deduction is removed. And the interest rebates are removed. This is done without a corresponding tax relief elsewhere. The Swedish Democrats have historically seen a number of questions and challenges giving only one answer. Now that I ask a little more detailed questions about economic policy, we are again beginning to draw to that answer. I find that regrettable. How do the Swedish Democrats believe that it affects people's attitudes towards work and people's willingness to do the right thing when you aim all their tax increases at those who work? How do these reforms contribute to the financing of the welfare of the future?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-526	Mr President, I would like to I got two questions. Fortunately, I can answer both of them with exactly the same answer. It was because we proposed that we in this parliamentary committee should reach the conclusion that we could abolish the tax on the first SEK 150 000 earned. This is particularly beneficial for low-income earners, compared with the current job tax deductions. It also benefits middle wage earners a lot. High-income earners benefit only marginally. That is the corresponding tax reduction. That is what the other options that Maria Malmer Stenergard listed, VAT and interest rebates, will compensate for. It will also very much compensate those who have children and those who have loans and those who have high consumption costs precisely for children and for their housing. They will benefit most from the reduced tax, at least if they belong to the lower segments of the wage scale. That is simply where the compensation comes from. It would be interesting if Maria Malmer Stenergards's party were interested in participating in the parliamentary committee that we are proposing. If you are not, it will, of course, be difficult to implement such a thing.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-529	Mr President, I would like to Transparency and transparency should be key words in politics. The government should therefore always, according to the best available knowledge and ability, account for the effects of the policies pursued. The public, journalists, researchers and assessors of various kinds have the right to access that information in an accessible way. The letter we are discussing today is an attempt in the right direction, but it could be even better in the future. It could be more analysis and more coherent reasoning that contributes to the search for knowledge in the field. From the letter Accounting for Tax Expenditure 2016 – it is therefore a question of aid or expenditure that goes through the tax system – it can be noted that the balance-affected tax expenditure amounts to SEK 183 billion. The single largest tax expenditure in the field of VAT arises from the reduced rate for food. This tax expenditure is 27.8 billion. The way I see it, it's been a successful bet. Just look at the jobs created over the years. It is perhaps also time that we try to take the next step in this, that is to say, look at those who produce our food in Sweden. I am of course thinking, for example, of our dairy farmers who, if we do nothing, disappear one by one. I realise that the future of our dairy farmers is another debate but still not. The reduced VAT has now followed us for a while, and we are discussing VAT in general far too little in this House. I believe that VAT has a signal value. I believe that VAT has an impact. And I believe that a reduction in VAT must also lead to a future and that it should have a subsequent part in other areas of policy. A reduction in VAT is desired by several tax areas. At the same time, any reduction from normal VAT should give an indication of what we want to stimulate a little extra. Of course, you can account for the effects in figures, as you do, but it may be more interesting to do so in terms of social effects in terms of the number of employees, reduced social benefits, people's ability to live a life of hope for the future or opportunities for dairy farmers, for example, to keep their business. Taxes affect companies. Taxes affect people. Taxes must be clear. The fact that you raise a tax in the best of worlds gives an indication that it is something you want to reduce or phase out – it is, for example, with environmental taxes. However, an increase in taxes on labour is more difficult to understand. We need more jobs and lower taxes when it comes to hiring. The gap in Sweden is between those who do not have a job and those who have a job. The letter makes two in-depth dives into socio-economic analyses. This applies, inter alia, to the ROT deduction, which was introduced in 2008. The tax reduction is reported as an expense, and then ROT work is the single largest. The analysis shows that the subsidies to the ROT industry amounted to around 20 billion in 2015. I am convinced that a great deal of these jobs and renovations would never have happened if the ROT deduction had not existed. ROT and RUT are a success. And especially the RUT deduction should and must continue to develop in the future. ROT will become even more important in the future when the self-home movement gets back on track. New housing is needed, and old homes need new investments. Then the ROT deductions are very important for some of these jobs that have turned white to continue to be so and not become black. Studies show that the RUT and ROT deductions were a profit for the tax collective and not at all an expense. In order to be able to account for tax expenditure, the State must also have tax revenue. I must nevertheless say that in that branch the present government may ascribe itself to the epithet of champion. The government's view seems to be that it should tax more and more and then be able to distribute. It is believed that the government considers itself better at making the distribution of the money than the individual family. The family would make the wrong choice according to the government if it was not controlled by collecting taxes and then distributing funds. This reduces the individual's power. His commitment to earn a little more is also decreasing, because the government is still taking the surplus. Sometimes consideration should be given to the need to introduce or increase a tax. Consideration should be given to the legitimacy of taxation. Any increased tax on the individual reduces his individual power. Any increased tax on labour is likely to reduce the supply of new jobs. It is a dangerous path for every government – a way backwards. It is a path that creates problems for the future, because we can be sure that there will be more difficult times when you do not have the opportunity to increase income through tax collection, because it is already being used. Shouldn't you charge taxes? Yes, of course, to the expenses that are necessary. But now making up new expenditure may not be the best situation for the future. I note that the Social Democrats said that they are well equipped for the future and economic crisis. I note that it is the eight years of the Alliance and the ninth budget that make it well equipped. It cannot be the Social Democrats' own budget that has left you well equipped. I'm worried about the future financially. I believe that we will have tough decisions in this Parliament. I believe that the vast majority of people have not realised that we will have to eat what we are increasing in tax expenditure today. The accounting we have received is good and gives an indication of the balance-affected tax expenditure, but there is a lack of a coherent analysis of what each part does for society as a whole. The state, region and municipality are all affected and benefit from these figures. As I said, there is an improvement potential, and we hope to be able to come back next year and commend the government for further development of this writing.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-545	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about economic policy guidelines and the government's accounting of tax expenditure in 2016. The outcome of this debate and the decision taken later today is perhaps the most important decision made by Parliament before the summer break this year. Unfortunately, it seems to be a victory for a parliamentary minority's ideas instead of a decision on an economic development in Sweden that a parliamentary majority would rather have chosen, if it had managed to get together for this. To analyse this problem, Mr President, I should like to begin my speech with a general reflection. Politics is to want. This is something that is often expressed in the general debate about the essence of politics and the responsibilities of politicians. Political will is carried out by competent politicians, it is also said. Political competence, however, is not such an obvious well-defined concept. Perhaps it is not even possible to talk about a competent politician about precisely the long-term visions of the policy that you represent, which are in stark contrast with the ideological starting points of the politician and the ideological point of view of another judge, such as the voters', perhaps totally opposite idea of how a state, a municipality or a region should develop. In this context, as a moderate of course, I have no difficulty in judging politicians as competent within my own party. In the other alliance parties, and also among many reformed socialists, there are politicians who understand the superiority of the market economy over the destruction of plan management by the best economic development of the common state over time. I can therefore think that unreformed socialists, i.e. somewhat communist-inspired within the left-wing movements, people who tend to regard themselves as pure communists and, unfortunately, also including some environmentalists, are not to be regarded as competent politicians, because I find their world-reverseness to the view of social development generally intellectually offensive. Similarly, as moderated by liberal conservative fundamental values, I find it difficult to see the manifestations of right-wing politicians as evidence of political competence. Most paradoxical is the fact that such left-wing and right-wing forces are united in looking up to a warmongering Vladimir Putin in Russia, jointly supporting isolationism and showing contempt for free trade, and are against more open borders and an increasingly globalised world seeking consensus. The present report, FIU20, contains a weak red-green government's original proposal for guidelines for economic development in Sweden. We have heard in the debate how the majority in Parliament today has already condemned their ideas for economic development as very damaging to Sweden. Not only this: The final proposal from the government that has been put on Parliament's table is also topped by even more damaging left-wing elements by Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party being actively allowed to interfere in the game of producing a really bad economic proposal for how Sweden should develop its economic policy. From what we have heard so far in the debate, this certainly does not have the approval of a parliamentary majority. Nevertheless, it seems that this will happen today in the decision on Sweden's economic future that is to be taken in this House later today. How, then, has it gone this crazy, Mr President? Well, politics really is that will- as previously stated. And the alliance parties are also very keen to do so. We have heard that from the debate. Yet we do not want to, Mr President. How, then, does this incomprehensible ambivalence from the bourgeois side express itself? Here we have four absolutely excellent bourgeois draft budgets which, moreover, account for two thirds of their scope in the reservations contained in the FiU20 report, are written together about the vision of a common economic development for Sweden. However, in order to enable Stefan Lövven's government to get through its, according to all bourgeois politicians here today, a damaging budget for Sweden has not been able to conclude this budget movement jointly. Instead, four different proposals are put forward which do not have a reasonable chance of winning the approval of a majority of the Chambers, with less than the fact that one of them could have been agreed. The alliance therefore fails by this inability in the final position for Sweden's economic policy development, in my opinion, and a large majority of bourgeois-minded voters' expectations, the mission and responsibility that they have been entrusted with since the 2014 elections. To passively tact by deliberately letting a very poor state budget begin to squeeze the must out of Sweden because it is believed that this provides for a bourgeois alliance victory in the 2018 election is, Mr President, not only cynical of the people affected by this in their everyday lives. Moreover, in my opinion, it is not politically competent but, in short, stupid. But we can't rule with the Swedish Democrats, then my political opinion mates' defence of not wanting to see the Riksdag bring Sweden on a better path for economic development than the one that will soon be decided. Mr President, I would like to Which is then the best option for Sweden and for the Swedish people's everyday life here and now, I wonder. To actively force Stefan Löfven to include the Left Party's proposals in the budget, or that the Alliance submits an entirely own draft budget that has not been discussed with the Swedish Democrats but can count on their passive support? The Alliance budget is so much healthier for Sweden than the proposal from the Red-Green Government, which has been deliberately and heavily tilted in the direction of the extreme-left in order to get the support of these even more damaging forces. Then we become hostages to Jimmie Åkesson's party until the 2018 elections, the angry bourgeois voices are heard shouting as they are now unable to develop a common alliance alternative that has a chance to win over the red-green proposal. This, too, is a naive reasoning from the side of alliance representatives. If the Swedish Democrats choose to passively support the proposal that the Alliance could have put forward jointly, they cannot reasonably choose to vote immediately after that against the substantive proposals on economic policy that then come to Parliament and that they have already stated in principle to support, compared with a red-green proposal. One might rightly think that the Swedish Democrats have a strange political agenda, but that is not quite the same as being politically suicidal. But do we really want a bourgeois budget? It can cause a government crisis, my alliance partners finally say. The answer to this question, Mr President, is as simple as short: yes, we do. In my now 47-year political life, I have always been told that a bourgeois budget is always better than a socialist. Now that I am 60 years old, this wisdom appears wiser than ever in a troubled and uncertain world. Let us therefore hope that the alliance leaders will be able to gather Sweden into a bourgeois-oriented economic policy in the near future, not only in ancient times – perhaps even after the next ordinary election, if the accident were to occur. You can do better, comrades! I believe in you wholeheartedly, and I hope you also believe in yourself. Show that you are of the right kind as politicians. Show that you are the competent politicians that I know are in you and that the Swedish people long for – not only for the next elections but already now.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-569	Madam President, I would like The starting point of the Swedish Democrats is that the current and previous governments have handled migration policy in an almost destructive way. The country has been put in the deepest crisis in modern times. This crisis will now be partially resolved by providing amounts in excess of SEK 30 billion in the area of migration, only to cope with the management for the current year. The increase shall cover the receipt of six months which have passed before the budget is decided and shall last until the end of the year. The attitude of the Swedish democrats is that with a long-term responsible policy, this scenario had never happened. Now, however, we are faced with a completed fact, which means that our assessment has come to the conclusion that what has already happened must be financed because the cost has already been incurred. In our scenario, we expect our policy to have an impact in the second half of the year, which means that we do not see the need for the dramatic increase that the current government wants to push forward. With Sweden's democratic policy, the volume of reception will be close to zero. The process will be considerably shortened by applying the first safe country principle, which means that the asylum seeker has the burden of proof that he has not arrived via a safe country. If this is the case, it is automatically rejected. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, the Migration Agency is the most important authority. We have to have an authority that works with re-migration. That's why we accept the government's contribution. The main activities of the Authority shall be in particular to facilitate and stimulate return and be used for this purpose. It is about streamlining expulsions and expulsions, speeding up the case-by-case process in accordance with the first safe country principle, carrying out extensive checks on the age and background of those currently in the asylum system, and working in various ways on migration issues. As far as Category 13 is concerned, we say no to investments in specific solutions and ineffective measures in Swedish integration policy. Our ambition is broad solutions that benefit everyone, not individual interests. We also intend to come back this autumn with completely new solutions to the problems created by today's policy. Furthermore, we accept a lower standard of accommodation and a reduction in the compensation that is currently being paid. We also change young men's opportunities – it is mainly young men that are involved – living at HVB homes because there are not many age controls, and it is not possible to justify such expensive housing. We can also note that the situation at HVB homes is escalating. We have seen repeated cases of vandalism, sexual abuse, threats, violence and even murder. Only last week, there was a report of people being infected with tuberculosis. Madam President, I would like I would have liked to have spoken more about the social consequences of mass immigration policy in my speech – they deserve more space in the debate – but since this is a budget debate, I will say a few things about the economic consequences. Community planning, housing supply, construction and consumer policy are being cut. The grant for the Swedish Work Environment Authority is cut. In times of train stops and delays, the government chooses to reduce the maintenance of the state infrastructure by half a billion SEK. We are cutting back on defence and society's emergency preparedness. At the same time as school results are falling, the choice is made to reduce the number of employees in primary schools, and the funding for higher education institutions is greatly reduced. It cuts down on general environmental and nature conservation. All of this we say no to. All of this has two things in common: they are vital functions of society and, at the same time, they are subject to severe cuts. Or they are a redistribution, a financial redistribution, from Swedish citizens to non-citizens. But you don't just make things worse for those who are already here. No, you don't settle here. The aid should also be cut for those who absolutely cannot get here – people in the immediate vicinity of wars on the run – in need of humanitarian aid, in need of the most basic, in need of food, water, medicine and shelter over their heads. At the vote today, the government intends to receive a mandate to take more than SEK 4 billion from international aid to finance refugee reception in Sweden. According to the EU border agency Frontex, and this is the EU's own figures, at least 60% of asylum seekers here are not because they are fleeing war but as economic migrants in search of a European standard of living. And the majority of these are also young, healthy men. It is therefore this group that is given priority and rewarded over children, over women, over the elderly in the Middle East. It's a shame! We say no to this distorted priority, which takes resources from the fight against disaster and poverty and humanitarian aid in favour of continued expensive immigration into Sweden. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-586	Madam President, I would like If the Government considers that the budget needs to be adjusted or changed as a result of unforeseen needs requiring new funds, it can submit proposals to the Riksdag. That is the rule of law. This is normally done twice a year in connection with the spring bill – as now – and the budget bill in the autumn. In the spring change budget, the Government mainly handles the consequences of the situation that arose in the area of migration during late autumn and winter after the budget bill was submitted to the Riksdag. The fact that many people then applied for asylum in Sweden affects the funding and is handled in the bill. Of course, it can also be noted that the government has also acted through a rescheduling of the policy of id controls, border controls and a migration policy which is otherwise reduced to the minimum level of the EU. In the amending budget, the appropriations of the Finnish Immigration Service are adjusted to deal with the new situation. The government also strengthens the resources to speed up the establishment of those who receive a positive response to their application by increasing the resources for skills mapping, validation and a new fast track for entrepreneurs. In order to strengthen education in Swedish for new arrivals, an investment in SFI and Swedish as a second language is carried out, among other things, through further training of teachers. Madam President, I would like More are now also expected to be rejected. More will therefore have to leave Sweden. The police and the Migration Agency are therefore given increased resources for the work to be carried out to an increased extent. It is, of course, important that it works for the legitimacy of policy and for immigration to be regulated. The government is therefore taking responsibility for the changed situation in the amending budget. It is a matter of responsibility for the authorities to receive the necessary resources, responsibility for improving the establishment and responsibility for increasing capacity so that those who are rejected also leave Sweden. I therefore support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-592	Madam President, I would like The Spring Change Budget is part of the negotiations between the Government and the Left Party on the budget. I shall now highlight the parts that we in the Left Party are particularly proud to have pushed through and those parts where we do not share the government's policy. Something that you may not spontaneously relate to the Left Party is the demand for more police officers. But it is actually something that we in the Left Party have been running in recent years. In this budget, police resources are increased by SEK 283 million. This strengthens the conditions for the police's work in neighbouring areas, so-called local police officers, and the work against hate crimes. The threat from the right-wing extreme forces is becoming clearer, and therefore the so-called Kungälv model in the preventive work against right-wing extremism will be implemented in schools all over Sweden. I myself came across Christer Mattsson's work already as a municipal politician. Among other things, they work with trips to Auschwitz. I think it is a very good job, because racism needs to be combated every day. The major migration to Sweden has dominated the political debate in 2015 and 2016. Now it is time to integrate all the people who have sought and been protected in Sweden. Of course, a number of initiatives are needed in a wide range of areas, both in the short and long term, in order for everyone to be able to get a job and a home. For my part, I see this as an opportunity for Sweden's rural municipalities, because unlike when the war in the Balkans took place in the 1990s, there are currently housing shortages in many municipalities in Sweden – especially in the big cities. This makes it more difficult to move from the municipality of arrival, which makes it even more important to strengthen the networks locally, where you live and work. Therefore, efforts are now being made to improve the fairness and efficiency of validation and assessment of foreign education. A skills mapping should take place already during the asylum process so that it becomes clear to both employers and workers what competence the applicant actually has. It should be possible for folk high schools to carry out language teaching that aims to strengthen knowledge of the Swedish language and to promote participation in working and community life, something that has previously been hampered by complicated regulations. Increased funding is also given to strengthen the conditions for good language teaching in Swedish for immigrants in Komvux. Madam President, I would like Migration to Sweden has been greatly reduced since the government's repressive policy of border controls and the deterioration of family reunification has taken effect. This has led to fewer applications for asylum than in the past, especially compared with the Swedish Immigration Service's previous forecast. The spring change budget is based on an earlier forecast of the Migration Agency, which has now been revised downwards. In previous budgets, there has been some recognition of aid as a result of high migration. Any adjustments in the opposite direction with the return of funds to aid may be resolved in future negotiations on the autumn amending budget. One area in which we in the Left Party do not share the government's policy is the RUT deduction. It deprives the Treasury of significant tax revenues that could otherwise be used to strengthen welfare. The RUT deduction is used mainly by high income earners and increases inequality in society. It is difficult to understand why low-income earners who cannot afford RUT services should be involved and tax subsidies the domestic services of high-income earners. That is why we in the Left Party are critical of the extension of the RUT deduction that is now taking place. With regard to the amendment of the right to assistance for certain foreigners, it is based on the migration agreement between the government and the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. It is an agreement that the Left Party does not support because it is based on a false factual description and undermines the right to asylum. The Left Party therefore reserved itself when the supplementary amending budget was discussed in the Committee on Finance and voted in plenary against the government's proposal to change the right to assistance for certain foreigners. We believe that the change will make the situation even more difficult for people who are already very vulnerable and will not have the desired effect. Instead, the focus should have been on effective return, while maintaining the rule of law and human dignity, not on repressive measures. We in the Left Party believe that positive incentives should have been put in place to increase the individual's willingness to return voluntarily. The Left Party is therefore deeply critical of the developments in asylum policy that the government has pushed forward and on which we will vote in this House later today. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-605	Madam President, I would like Today, when we consider the evaluation of the Riksbank's monetary policy in 2010– 2015, I would like to extend a special warm thanks to the two external evaluators we have had the opportunity to have, Mervyn King and Marvin Goodfriend, for a very interesting and well-conducted evaluation. It is the third in a series of external evaluations that the Committee on Finance has made every four years. I would also like to express my sincere thanks from the Committee on Finance to the more than 20 consultative bodies and individuals who have contributed their views during the round of consultations on the evaluation that we have carried out. Last but not least: a special thanks to the staff at the office! You have done a fantastic job with a very comprehensive material to produce this report. I hereby support the proposal. Madam President, I would like Before I go into the committee's assessments of the six conclusions and the 15 recommendations presented by King and Goodfriend, I would also like to thank the other parties for agreeing, during the evaluation process, to review the Riksbank Act. The latest changes to the law were made in the 1990s to bring it into line with the EC Treaty and the Statute of the ESCB and the ECB. Much has happened since then, and it is now time to consider whether our monetary policy framework and legislation around the Riksbank are in time or whether changes are needed. The agreement reached in committee means that the Riksdag addresses two announcements to the Government. Firstly, the Government should urgently set up a parliamentary inquiry into the Monetary Policy Framework and the Riksbank Act. Secondly, the Government should urgently submit proposals to the Riksdag regarding the Riksbank's financial independence based on the so-called Flame Investigation report. The committee agrees that the starting point for the investigation of the Riksbank Act should be the success of the objective of price stability and the legal framework of an independent Riksbank. However, we also point to several areas where there is a need for new analyses and assessments:
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-620	The committee is also clear that if proposals that may affect the Constitution are considered relevant, they should be presented in good time before the parliamentary elections 2018. The questions about the Riksbank's financial independence have recently been investigated in the so-called Flame Investigation, and the committee believes that the government should return with proposals for possible regulatory changes in this area as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like So to Kings and Goodfriend's external evaluation of monetary policy 2010– 2015. As mentioned above, the study presents six conclusions and 15 recommendations. Let me begin with the conclusions in a somewhat shortened and condensed version. Firstly, the Riksbank's management of the recovery of the Swedish economy through the rise in steering interest rates from 0.25 per cent to 2 per cent between June 2010 and July 2011 did not seem unreasonable in the light of the information it had at the time. The members of the Executive Board also accepted this overall. The differences of opinion expressed by the members at the time were relatively small. Secondly, the Riksbank was late in seeing the extent of the problems in the rest of the world and not least in the euro area at the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012. It was therefore also late to start lowering interest rates, especially in 2013. This situation was also exacerbated by the fact that the assumptions on probable foreign interest rates differed significantly from those on the financial markets. As a result, forecast inflation was much higher than the actual outcome. Most serious, however, was the growing difference between the future repo rate path envisaged by the Riksbank and the interest rate path that could be seen from the prices on the financial markets. During this period, there were clear tensions and disagreements in the Executive Board over how tight monetary policy should be conducted. Thirdly, all the members of the Executive Board of the Riksbank spent a lot of time thinking about and explaining their views on the future repo rate path, although the future was uncertain and the market did not place much emphasis on it. This, according to the investigators, became a way of actually covering up the great differences of opinion about the orientation of monetary policy. Fourthly, both the majority of the Executive Board and those who disagreed had a very high level of confidence in the Riksbank's own forecasts, which were drawn up on the basis of the Bank's own model structures and always indicated that the 2 % target would be achieved in the medium term. A greater humility in relation to their own models would have been appropriate, according to the investigators. Fifthly, from the relatively unanimous nature of the Executive Board in 2010 to 2011, tensions increased in 2012, and in 2013 they moved into direct disagreement, not only on the setting of interest rates but also on the objectives of monetary policy. The disagreement was about the extent to which the Riksbank skul le takes into account the rising house prices and increasing lending to households and whether it was justified to set a higher repo rate than was justified if one only looked at inflation for two years to come. The majority of the Executive Board felt that if no one else did anything about this, they themselves had to act. Those Members who disagreed with the majority made a much narrower interpretation of the task of achieving price stability and wanted to stick to trying to set interest rates so that the inflation target would be reached within 18 months to two years. Sixthly, there was at times a high tone in the debate between the members of the Executive Board. This, according to the investigators, risks damaging the reputation of the Executive Board in the public domain. Different opinions and assessments are natural and important elements of the Executive Board's work, according to the investigators, but this type of disagreement needs to be handled differently. Madam President, I would like The evaluators also make 15 recommendations in four areas: monetary policy, financial stability, the Riksbank's accounting responsibility and the Riksbank's organisation. I am not going to go through them all here and now but am content to note that several of these will be tested in the framework of the investigation into the Riksbank Act, including the important issue of the need to clarify the Riksbank's responsibility for financial stability. Madam President, I would like The Committee on Budgets notes that, overall, the evaluators make roughly the same assessments of monetary policy during the period as the committee itself. In other words, the Riksbank could have conducted a more expansionary monetary policy in 2013 and the beginning of 2014. When it comes to the criticisms made by the evaluators towards the Riksbank regarding, among other things, forecasting methods, models and follow-up, the committee assumes that the Riksbank will accept the same. Among other things, the experience of the strong focus on interest rate paths needs to be thoroughly evaluated. The committee also shares the evaluators' view that the issues of macroprudential policy decisions need to be clarified and notes that the government needs to present a clear and coherent framework for Swedish macroprudential policy as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like At the end of the period covered by the evaluation, we have been able to note that the Riksbank has made an extremely expansionary monetary policy that is unprecedented in Swedish economic history. The Riksbank has on several occasions decided to lower the interest rate below zero and to carry out massive purchases of sovereign debt. However, we are far from alone in this expansionary monetary policy, on the contrary. The European Central Bank, in particular, is an example of this. It must be said, however, that we are treading unbroken ground here. If, and in that case in other ways, this will affect the economy of Sweden in the longer term, it is currently difficult, if not impossible, to know. In 2015, we have also noticed that inflation has started to rise but is still well below the target. Madam President, I would like The evaluators also raise a number of issues relating to the Riksbank's accounting responsibilities vis-à-vis the Board of Governors. In this context, as is clear from the report, I would like to point out that in 2015, the committee, on its own initiative, set up a working group to review the modalities of how we examine monetary policy. We will come back with proposals for possible changes in order to achieve a sharper and more distinct review in the autumn. However, it is important to say – and I will end with this – that when we have looked at how we review our Riksbank in Sweden, we can conclude that we have relatively well-developed democratic control and scrutiny of the Central Bank compared to what it looks like in most other countries. However, this does not prevent there being reason to strengthen the democratic scrutiny of the Riksbank, and the committee will therefore come back with proposals for this in the autumn. Madam President, I would like In our overall assessment of the evaluation, we have particularly noted two points that we wish to highlight. One is that Sweden has had a good economic development compared to other industrialised countries since the inflation target was introduced in the early 1990s. Inflationary policy and the independent central bank have, according to the evaluators, been a success compared to how monetary policy was conducted in the past. We share that view. The second is that this evaluation period has been very turbulent and has brought great new challenges. As King and Goodfriend put it, there was no manual showing how the Riksbank should have acted. in this largely new situation. The Executive Board and the Monetary Policy Department were simply taught by doing ..................................................... To conclude, I would like to thank once again all the parties in the committee for agreeing on the two announcements that we now hope the Parliament will make.
i-JkgTzMCYkw2AqUNEBPtFnj	Madam President, I would like During the spring, the Committee on Finance has been able to take part in and discuss the external evaluation of Swedish monetary policy for the period 2010-2015 by Marvin Goodfriend and Mervyn King, which was reported in January 2016. This evaluation has since been consulted, and the Committee on Finance also held a public hearing on the evaluation and on the views of the consultative bodies. The evaluation contains six conclusions and 15 recommendations. The conclusions concern, among other things, forecasts, models and the Executive Board's working methods. The recommendations concern monetary policy, financial stability, the Riksbank's accounting responsibility and the Riksbank's organisation. The referral bodies consider the evaluation to be interesting and welcome it. Most of the consultation bodies broadly share the evaluation's conclusions on monetary policy, but most of the commenting consultation bodies are negative to the concrete implementation of the inflation target, in which the Riksdag, on the recommendation of the Minister for Finance, would both define and quantify the inflation target. The evaluation points out that a problem was the growing difference between the Riksbank's forecast of the future interest rate path and the expected interest rate path of the market. The committee assumes that the Riksbank takes into account the criticism and, for example, continues its development work on forecasting methods, models and follow-up. There is a need for a thorough assessment of the experience of the interest-rate path. In the evaluation, Goodfriend and King make recommendations on objectives, means and governance of monetary policy. As these involve substantial changes to the current monetary policy framework, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs considers that these proposals should be dealt with in a broad parliamentary inquiry. I will come back to that. Madam President, I would like In 2013, the Government decided to give Finansinspektionen the main responsibility for macroprudential policy. The evaluators consider that the powers, tools and process of macroprudential decisions should be clarified. The committee shares that view. The issue is being prepared in the Government Office, and it is important that the Government presents a coherent and clear framework for Swedish macroprudential policy as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like The foundations of the current Riksbank Act are from the mid 1980s, and much has happened in monetary policy and financial stability, for example, since then. Financial stability has become a policy area of its own. In Sweden, as previously stated, Finansinspektionen has the main responsibility for macroprudential policy. On 1 January 1999, the decision entered into force that Sveriges Riksbank should have an independent position vis-à-vis the Riksdag and the Government. The world has gone through a financial crisis. The Riksbank has faced new unexpected problems, and it has reduced the policy rate to a negative level while buying government bonds to increase liquidity in the economy. These are new conditions that are shared with the central banks of several other countries. A major review of the Riksbank Act has been discussed in the past. Several investigations have been carried out; among other things, the Financial Crisis Committee has submitted two comprehensive reports, and the report on the Riksbank's financial independence and balance sheet has submitted a report. During this period, the committee has also examined two external evaluations. During the spring, the committee also held an internal hearing of the Governor of the Riksbank, where Stefan Ingves presented, among other things, the memo of the Executive Board on proposals for issues to be addressed in a review of the Riksbank Act. The Executive Board presents proposals in the areas of financial stability, monetary policy, monetary policy, the Riksbank's financial independence, cash supply, payment systems and crisis coordination, as well as statistics and information collection. Regarding the Riksbank's financial independence and the issues of the bank's balance sheet, equity and dividend, and how this should be regulated in the Riksbank Act, this has recently been investigated by the so-called Flame Investigation. It is therefore not justified to include this in the broad review of the Riksbank Act proposed by the Committee on Finance. Instead, the committee proposes to the government a notice to make proposals on the basis of the Flame Investigation Report and the referral points that were submitted. The Committee on Budgets is therefore proposing two announcements to the government in this report. The first is that the Government will soon set up a parliamentary inquiry into the Swedish Monetary Policy Framework and the Riksbank Act. The second is that the Government should make proposals to the Riksdag regarding the Riksbank's financial independence as soon as possible, based on the report of the Flame Investigation and the referral points. The starting point for the investigation into the Riksbank Act should be that the objective of price stability and the legal framework of an independent Riksbank have been successful. It is good if the Riksbank Act becomes clear and meets the current situation, needs and requirements. The committee stresses the importance of the investigation of the Riksbank Act being parliamentary and having a broad approach. Areas to be addressed include:
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-658	Madam President, I would like Now it is important that the government urgently appoints a broad parliamentary investigation and review of the Sveriges Riksbank Act and the Swedish parliamentary framework. The directives should be in place after the summer, and Any constitutionally affected proposals should be presented and processed well in advance of the parliamentary elections 2018.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-660	Madam President, I would like Monetary policy is one of few policy areas where much power has been handed over from politics to experts in the field, in this case the Executive Board of the Riksbank. Nevertheless, politics bears a great responsibility for monetary policy. The role of politics is to ensure that monetary policy is conducted properly and that its basis leads to a tense debate on monetary policy in Sweden. But politics also sets the framework for monetary policy by adopting laws, in this case the Riksbank Act. Therefore, it is now gratifying that there is a broad political consensus behind the proposal to review the Riksbank Act in a parliamentary inquiry. We in the Left Party can only welcome the fact that there will now be a parliamentary inquiry into the Riksbank Act. This is needed, and it is something that we have been demanding for many years. Today's legislation is written in the late 1990s, at a time when many politicians wanted to join EMU. But when the Swedish people had their say, it became a clear no to EMU. In retrospect, it has proved to be an economically very wise decision that served Sweden well. It is therefore important that political power – including over monetary policy – should be based on the people. The Left Party has a number of proposals to sharpen the Riksbank Act and make monetary policy in Sweden better, proposals that we now hope the investigation can cave in and come up with wise conclusions on. We have pushed for the CPI as a measure for the Riksbank's inflation target to be replaced by the CPIF, on which there now seems to be a broad consensus. This means that the measure used in practice will also be what has real significance for monetary policy. We have also pushed for increased importance for employment, and we have pushed for power over monetary policy to be based on the people. The Riksdag shall decide on the orientation of monetary policy while the Riksbank shall implement its design. This was something that especially the academic referral bodies thought was good and highlighted in their referrals was. The operational responsibility for monetary policy today rests with the Executive Board of the Riksbank. The Board of Management is appointed by the Board of Governors. The Riksbank Act stipulates that members of the Executive Board may not seek or take instructions to carry out monetary policy tasks. The objectives of monetary policy mean that the Riksbank only has the task of maintaining a fixed monetary value. The Riksbank has then decided on its own that monetary policy should be governed by an inflation target and that this should be 2 per cent of the CPI. Only then has the Riksdag stated in various documents that it is behind the design of monetary policy that the Riksbank itself has decided on. However, this is of no practical significance precisely because members of the Executive Board are not allowed to take instructions when carrying out their monetary policy tasks. We believe that this system is unreasonable. It should be the case that the Riksdag formulates more precise monetary policy objectives. This shall include the targets, the level of the inflation target, the variable to be used and the targets to be set for the development of the real economy. Based on these objectives, the Riksbank will then independently design the ongoing monetary policy. This creates a clear division of responsibilities: The elected representatives in the Riksdag decide on the policy, and the Riksbank implements it. That is something we hope the investigation will cave itself into. The election of members of the Executive Board can have a major impact on the conduct of monetary policy, and today these elections take place without much debate and transparency. Therefore, the parliamentary inquiry should make proposals on how the election of members of the Executive Board can take place in a more transparent manner. Open hearings of the candidates for the Executive Board should be a key element of this process, as is currently happening in other countries. The fact that the investigators King and Goodfriend are now highlighting many of its questions is, of course, a good thing. We must protect the democratic aspects, including in monetary policy. Above all, we must focus on reducing unemployment in order to achieve full employment. Therefore, taking greater account of production and employment, as suggested by the investigators, is a very good thing. I have had the privilege of being part of the working group of the Committee on Finance chaired by Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz in an exemplary way, whose task has been to come up with proposals on how the supervisory power of the Committee on Finance over monetary policy can be strengthened already in today's legislation. Several of the group's proposals, not to say all, are good. In the autumn, the Committee on Finance will decide which ones are to be implemented. The group proposes that, instead of today's three hearings, two public hearings are held each year with the Riksbank on the current monetary policy. At the hearings, the Governor of the Riksbank and three Deputy Governors of the Riksbank shall participate each time, instead of as today a Deputy Governor of the Riksbank. This was also suggested by King and Goodfriend. Members should have the right to reply to the answers of the Governors if they so wish, which could lead to a more flexible debate and discussion during the hearing. It may seem strange that a reduced number of hearings could strengthen the power of control. But better hearings fewer times give a better scrutiny. The Group proposes that a public hearing on the stability of the financial system be held every year. Such a hearing shall be attended by the minister responsible, the authorities responsible and other experts. The committee should also consider how to strengthen the committee's preparation of financial stability in general, we believe in the working group. I think this is very good, because, as we have heard in the debate, financial stability and macro-prudential supervision is a relatively new policy area that has gained a huge boost, especially since the financial crisis. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-676	Madam President, I would like I think we all agree that the optimal teaching situation is a qualified, well-trained teacher in a physical classroom with his class. But what do we do when it is not possible when there is no qualified teacher at the school? We have solved this by opening up to remote learning as a solution, with a teacher who is physically present at another school and who has the same principal as an employer. But what if there is no qualified teacher on a particular subject employed by the principal? There, the issue of subcontracting remote education comes in as an opportunity for school leaders to cooperate and sell services to each other. Madam President, I would like In Kramfors is Ådalsgymnasiet. I know that they will exhale after we have made a decision on long-distance teaching in the area of mother tongue teaching and study guidance. Now they do not have to defy the law in order to give all students the education they are entitled to. When the issue of remote education was last raised for discussion, the Alliance received an announcement regarding the investigation of the possibility of a contract. Thanks to the intervention of the Alliance, it is now possible for Ådalsgymnasiet to legally offer native language teaching and study guidance to its students through an agreement with Uppsala Municipality that provides these services via remote teaching. Without this opportunity, these pupils would have been completely without both study guidance and mother tongue teaching, since in Kramfors there are no mother tongue teachers in the 13 languages of upper secondary school pupils as their mother tongue. For me, it is difficult to understand the scepticism and fear that seem to exist when it comes to exploiting modern technology in school. There are challenges– there is nothing to underscore– not least we have a teaching staff that needs proper education, training and cooperation in order to: be able to manage these tools. But it seems very strange that in Sweden, one of the world's most digitized countries, try to limit the possibilities of using modern technology to give all students the education they are entitled to. Madam President, I would like We already have a shortage of teachers in Sweden. It will be visible everywhere, and it will get worse before it gets better. This is very sad, and I think we all share some concern about it. In this situation, we must allow principals and teachers to be creative in order to ensure an equivalent high-quality school throughout the country. There is a shortage of native speakers throughout the country. The possibility that is now being opened up to remote learning will enable more pupils to receive native language teaching and study guidance – something that research clearly shows is important for students' development and results. Madam President, I would like What I do not understand is that the government parties, together with the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, do not want to go any further. The Alliance has proposed, in its accompanying motion, to open up on trials for remote teaching in other subjects on a subcontracted basis. There is an investigation going on, but pending its completion, we think it is reasonable to open up to a trial. Our priority is the students and their right to education by a qualified teacher. If there is no teacher at the school who is qualified or with the principal, we think it is a good option for the school to take advantage of the possibility of remote teaching, whether it is done with the principal's own teacher or whether it is chosen to solve it by contract with another principal's teacher. What's the alternative? you can ask yourself. After all, the principal must solve the teaching for the students, and then the only solution is that the students are taught by an unauthorized teacher. We believe this within the Alliance is a worse solution for the students. We trust that the principals, together with their teachers, have the best interests of the students in mind and that we need to give them the tools necessary for all students to be given high-quality teaching. An important tool to ensure this is the possibility of remote learning on a subcontract basis in more areas than native language teaching and study guidance. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation n r 2, which the whole Alliance has supported.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-689	Madam President, I would like I will start by telling you that we Swedish democrats support reservation 1. We are not calling for the proposal on long-distance education to be rejected, but for the proposal on mother tongue education to be rejected. The Swedish Democrats are opposed to the fact that native language education is available in Sweden today. That is why we would not be able to vote on the committee's proposals. It would feel a little like going against our own politics. We want to close down mother tongue education, except for national goals, and instead use these teachers in our preparatory school. Remote education on a moderate scale can be useful, above all, for the sparsely populated areas, as Maria Stockhaus mentioned earlier, on specific subjects but not in all, Madam President. Nor do we mind municipalities helping each other across borders. We see that as an opportunity. But the Law Council has been very clear that this proposal cannot be the basis for lawmaking. That is why we want to back down and do the right thing and not, as the government is doing now, fast and wrong. In three weeks things will come out and come back with the hope that it will be done in a good way. The Swedish Democrats do not think this is the correct way. It is a panic solution instead of a well-thought-out proposal. Madam President, I would like As I said, the Swedish democrats have chosen a different path. Of the 70 000 newly arrived schoolchildren who arrived in 2015, more than 60 are aged 12. They probably know their native language and need to focus instead on Swedish, which is the key to entering working life in Sweden. Therefore, we propose instead a preparatory school – a school where the newly arrived children go until they are cognitively and linguistically ready to step into the Swedish classroom. Today there are 5,000 preparation classes. You do a little arbitrarily as you want and throw the children into the classroom at the speed you find appropriate. We consider this to be completely wrong. It will be a failure for the newly arrived student, it will be a failure for the class to receive the student and it will be a failure for the receiving teacher. You cannot give enough instruction to either existing or newly arrived students. The argument against our proposal is usually that we should integrate early. But if you do not understand what is being said or what is being done, you do not integrate well. Let me take a recent example now that the European football Championships are in progress. It would surely have been great fun for a player in division 7 to train with the national team. However, I have doubts as to whether the person had learned a great deal. Above all, he or she would take much of the time of the trainer or special trainer and of the other players' opportunity to develop. If you bring in five players permanently without any preparation and that does not meet the requirements but retains the goal of winning the EM, it will of course not work well. It is much better to practice at the level you are and constantly strive to reach up. Madam President, I would like I had a date with some colleagues in Farsta last week. The reality they described it consists of sometimes bad principals, sometimes students who are messy and sometimes parents who fight. But that's how everyday life has been for many years; it's nothing strange. The teaching team has always been the salvation; one has always been able to lean against the teaching team. But now they can't even help each other in the teaching team. They swim to keep themselves to the surface and not to drown under all the tasks that are constantly being put on them. Unfortunately, these three colleagues have chosen to apply for a job outside the Swedish school because the work environment is not as it should be, the career steps are almost non-existent and the surrounding staff have been laid off and disappeared for a long time. There are soon no counselors, guidance counselors or school nurses who can help. It's quite simple: Pupils who feel good perform well. If they feel that they are up to the task, they will also add their weight. That is why we need to raise our expectations for them. Madam President, I would like The Swedish preparatory school that we want to give our new arrivals contains a curriculum to provide equivalence across Sweden. We want to use the mother tongue teachers and their knowledge. We are talking about 5 000 − 6 000 extra teachers that we can put into the Swedish school system. Early cooperation in the classroom is also important, but the existing teacher should have the last word. You can support and help the student at few times in the beginning and then increase as and when. There must of course be a digital test that newly arrived students all over Sweden have to do so that there is equivalence. It should not be a manual test that today can take up to eight hours. What is needed is a better job calm, and this will lead to improved study results. We believe that a preparatory school can do that. There is also close cooperation after school time when the preparation school is called the Resource Centre. Those students who have just entered the Swedish school system can come back to school in the afternoon for support. It provides a bridge and a security. Madam President, I would like I wish my colleagues and everyone in the Swedish people who are watching this a nice summer.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-708	Madam President, I would like I thought the debate would be about remote learning. There was not much about remote teaching in Stefan Jakobsson's speech, but I take a line on the part that was about it. We know that you do not want to approve the proposal on study guidance and mother tongue because you do not think it should exist, although the research is clear that students need it to pass both their mother tongue and Swedish. If you read your budget bill, it is clear that you want to spend money on protecting village schools. For village schools in particular, the lack of teachers is a fact. The legislative reform has also tightened the requirements on which teachers are competent to teach. Why, then, do Stefan Jakobsson and the Swedish Democrats choose not to support the Alliance's follow-up motion for a trial with remote teaching in other subjects on a subcontracted basis? What proposals do you have to ensure, in the short term, that pupils who attend the village schools you say you are defending receive instruction on all subjects by qualified teachers?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-712	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Maria for the question. Research in all honor, but everyone knows that research is something you can lean on when you feel like it. Some research supports its own proposal while other research does not. A few years ago, Danish research showed the opposite effect. Yeah, we're definitely in favour of the village schools getting by. At present, we see that: Many small schools are closed down by municipalities because they are governed by local government. We do not like this, and we have even put forward an incentive grant of 300 million to support the village schools. I have absolutely nothing against what the Alliance has proposed, but it should not be implemented too quickly. If you in the Alliance are serious, I am the first of pragmatic politicians to sit down and have a cup of coffee with you so that you can tell me what you think with your proposals.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-717	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, village schools have become regional policy. I can understand that in smaller towns you are keen to keep your school, because otherwise the countryside will have difficulty surviving. But we cannot risk pupils' education and the quality of teaching for regional policy reasons. I do not hear that Stefan Jakobsson has any concrete idea of how all students who go to the village schools that you say you protect will be able to be taught by qualified, well-educated teachers this autumn.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-719	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I talked about these very things. When we have arranged a good working environment for the teachers and, for example, introduced emergency classes for those children who cannot cope with an ordinary classroom, when we have introduced a real career ladder and when the surrounding staff, which the municipalities have chosen to resign since the municipalisation, return 50 000 teachers working in the business community are prepared to come back to the Swedish school. It's a solution to get teachers back. Since these teachers have been working in business for a few years, they have the concrete practical knowledge that students need. These teachers can make demands because they have lived in reality, and the students know that.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-721	Madam President, I would like There has long been a shortage of native speakers and tutors. This has led to difficulties in providing pupils with the education they are entitled to. Against this background, we welcome the Government's proposal that mother tongue teaching and study guidance in mother tongue should be subcontracted to another principal and that this should also apply to mother tongue teaching and study guidance through remote teaching. However, we would like to stress that further efforts must be made to improve the availability of mother tongue teachers and tutors. Here both the government and the principals have a responsibility. For example, there are many people in the country who have both linguistic and subject knowledge and are therefore suitable for employment as study supervisors. The Left Party is clear that this reform must not mean that the principals reduce their ambitions to provide, in the long term, mother tongue education and study guidance within their own organisation according to the needs that exist. The School Inspectorate should therefore be given a special mandate to follow up on the responsibility of the principals to primarily organise mother tongue teaching and study guidance within their own organisation. That is why I support the Left Party's reservation, No 3. However, I must admit that it seems pointless to stand here today and debate about some small improvements for young newcomers in education. It makes no sense because hypocrisy cuts right through. It makes no sense for us to stand here and talk about increased opportunities for newcomers in the education system, while the majority of parliamentary parties and members, including those sitting here now, are doing everything to stop these fellows from coming here. On Saturday it is twelve years since I and the family were granted a permanent residence permit. After four years of uncertainty and powerlessness and having been exploited economically by traffickers, our family was reunited in 2004. Without the security of permanent residence permits and the right to be reunited with Dad, it would have been extremely difficult to live a normal life here in Sweden, regardless of study guidance or mother tongue teaching on a contract basis. I would like to conclude this speech by quoting a passage from one of Stig Dagerman's best poems. The bird chooses the escape. We chose it not. The escape chose us. That's why we're here. Those of you who were not elected but still have freedom, help us carry the heavy flight we carry!
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-729	Madam President, I would like Dorotea Municipality is a very small municipality and has a total of 249 pupils in its school. In this municipality, the lack of teachers is very clear. They find it difficult to find qualified teachers on all subjects, not least modern languages. In Kramfors there are teachers of modern languages who do not have full services, and Kramfors municipality is willing to sell teaching via remote teaching on a contract basis to the school in Dorotea.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-732	Madam President, I would like I think it's a very strange question – why the Left Party wants to deprive some students of their right to modern languages – when both the Left Party and the Government and other parties have agreed that we should conduct study guidance and mother tongue teaching both through remote education and on a contract basis. The only thing the Left Party has said so far is that we are in favour of improving the situation regarding the shortage of teachers, etcetera. However, we have said that we should wait to extend the reform to all substances because we believe that this should be tested so that it does not become an experiment.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-734	Madam President, I would like We agree that it should be tried. That is precisely why we have proposed a trial on other substances. For the autumn term, several students in Dorotea want to study modern languages. They will not be able to be taught by a qualified teacher because there are no qualified teachers in all modern languages in Dorotea. With regard to the possibility of purchasing teaching in modern languages via remote teaching from Kramfors, both municipalities are open for discussion. But since you do not support the Alliance's follow-up motion on this matter, Daniel Riazat, these students will not be able to be taught by a qualified teacher legally. My question is, why do you say no?
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-738	Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous reply, we think it is better to wait and see what the reform will be like. Once it has been evaluated, you can proceed with other substances, if the system proves to be working properly.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-739	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Children and students, as we have heard in this House, have the right to meet competent teachers. Sweden is a large country geographically. The teacher shortage is approaching in several places and in several subjects already as it is. The government is serious about making constructive proposals that contribute to ensuring that all students have equal opportunities for learning and education. It is in the light of this that remote teaching, i.e. teaching where pupils and teachers are separated in space but not in time, distance teaching, i.e. teaching where pupils and teachers are separated in both time and space, and changing construction conditions should be seen. I have to say – and I think the vast majority agree – that we have moved forward positions a lot in a short time. The Government has delivered a bill to enable experiments with remote teaching on subjects where it has not been possible to find qualified teachers – remote teaching within the framework of the same principal. To facilitate this is the reason for many of the municipal associations that we have seen. A pilot activity has therefore begun – an activity that needs to be closely monitored and evaluated as the consequences for the student's education are not known. This applies to both positive and negative, depending on the student's age, which support the student is offered on site in the classroom, the subject and the didactic methods used. Madam President, I would like After a great deal of commitment and constructive cooperation in the Education Committee and also with the support of the Ministry, unanimous announcements were made about further investigations in this area. An investigation was set up with clearly defined sub-missions so that the Riksdag could proceed more quickly with native language teaching and study guidance in native language. The second part of the work continues and the committee has been informed of its progress. The committee's commitment has led to a joint announcement, developed and decided unanimously, which has already been delivered in its parts. I am pleased that the government is already showing results and delivering constructively. It is a challenge for the school to meet the needs of all pupils, and this autumn's large refugee reception has put particular focus on those who need mother tongue support and on the difficulty of meeting the same across the country. The need for native language education is far from always coincident with the supply of native language teachers. The unanimous announcement is the background to the fact that neither the government nor the committee has found reason to take account of the Council's criticism of the preparation requirement. The proposal contains proposals for changes in construction regulations. As is well known, a municipality can choose to subcontract certain activities, but with limited opportunities to be a contractor. Today, it is only permitted to subcontract remote teaching to the state and only for teaching on the subjects of sign language, Sami or integrated Sami teaching in comprehensive school. The Riksdag therefore has a bill on the table today for decisions regarding remote teaching in native language support and study guidance in native language. The proposal means that not only individual natural and legal persons but also municipalities will have the right to teach mother tongue and study guidance in mother tongue. That's good. This is an exception to the Local Government Act, and it means that municipalities and county councils have the power to carry out tasks within the school system on a subcontract basis to another principal within the school system, even if the matter is not related to the municipality's or county council's area or members. The second part of the investigation continues its important work. It became clear when the committee received a presentation from the investigator that they are struggling with many and large issues and balances. What are the consequences of remote learning to a greater extent? How is the quality of education affected? How much of a student's teaching can be done by other performers and by how many? How is the rating affected? What competence should the person present in the classroom have physically? When teaching is conducted as long-distance teaching and also on a subcontracted basis, the consequences are both greater and considerably more difficult to understand. In addition, the investigator will look at whether distance learning needs further regulation. Madam President, I would like It is too early to assess the impact of remote learning on students' education. An extension of the possibilities for outsourcing should be done with caution, and any such change should be made in stages. It is not possible to escape the fact that the responsibility for training becomes extremely fragmented when all or part of the training is carried out on a subcontracted basis to one or more actors. In conclusion, therefore, it is important to closely monitor the consequences of long-distance teaching and extension of the construction provision before taking too far-reaching steps.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-756	Madam President, I would like I began my speech by saying that I suppose we agree that the best thing for all students is if there is a qualified well-trained teacher in the classroom where the students are physically. The reason why we triggered the follow-up exercise is that there are municipalities and schools where we do not already have this opportunity today. Small municipalities such as the one I mentioned in the previous shift, Dorotea, have certain subjects where you simply do not have qualified teachers in modern languages within the municipality. I may think it is a matter of course that municipalities should first and foremost find qualified teachers that they can put into the classroom physically. But when that possibility does not exist, I and the Alliance feel confident that principals and teachers can use the technical possibilities now available and ensure that students can be taught by a qualified teacher. I would also like to ask Lena: Why do the Social Democrats want to deprive the students of Dorotea of teaching modern languages by qualified teachers? This will result if the experimental activities are not allowed.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-759	Madam President, I would like The lack of teachers is, to say the least, a challenge. This applies both in Dorotea and in many other municipalities. Nevertheless, I must say to Maria Stockhaus that there is a reason why we should abandon that examination requirement with regard to mother tongue teaching and study guidance in mother tongue. There was a great deal of agreement on this. But what are the consequences? Is it supposed to be possible to have 100 percent of your teaching as long-distance teaching contracted? How many contractors are you supposed to be able to learn from? What will be the responsibility of the municipality or principal, depending on whether it is a municipal school or a free school, where the student has his or her main stay? Too many questions lack answers. Neither I nor the Social Democrats nor, for that matter, the government rule out in any way that we will take steps in the field of remote education and construction regulations, on the contrary. The Moderates and the Alliance are speeding up when they say that it should be allowed in all subjects and that each principal should be allowed to decide how this should be done. We don't usually have that kind of experimental activity towards our municipalities. I think it would be unfortunate in this case too, because it could have negative consequences.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-762	Madam President, I would like I believe that the negative consequences for students will be considerably greater if they are not taught by a qualified teacher, which will result if we do not open up to this experimental activity. I would understand Lena Hallengren's argument if it were the case that we proposed a direct amendment to the law and that remote teaching was allowed on all subjects without any follow-up. What we are proposing, however, is a trial. The main rule is still that there should be a qualified teacher in the classroom. One should only be able to resort to experimental activities when one cannot solve the situation with either a qualified teacher in the classroom or a qualified teacher, employed by the same principal, via remote teaching. It's unlikely to be 100%, and it's unlikely to happen anywhere. Unfortunately, some of the students in Dorotea are not given the opportunity to read modern languages to the extent that they would like, but for them this experiment would mean that they would already this autumn: be able to be taught by a qualified teacher who is not physically in Dorotea but is in Kramfors. As I said, the alternative is either no teaching at all in modern languages or the teaching of an unauthorized teacher. In my world, it is far worse for them than for them to be allowed to take part in experiments with remote learning on a subcontracted basis in modern languages.
i-7f67fe0d7c2ec36b-766	Madam President, I would like Now I am aware that Maria Stockhaus has no further line, but I also had in my main speech and in my previous line a number of questions that I think are very relevant. Is it okay for a student to have 100 percent of his or her teaching as remote education? Is it okay that a municipality has four five and six different contractors? Who, then, is in charge of the students' education, for maintaining quality, for the grade to work? I am not saying that this is basically the wrong idea, but I think that Maria Stockhaus, the Moderates and the Alliance make it a little too easy. If you are not so committed to getting a preparation basis and do not take step by step, it affects very much. Nor do I think that we have had sufficiently deep discussions on whether there is sufficient evidence of the competence that we expect from the teacher in the classroom. Students should not be alone in the classroom, but there should be a professional person on site. The answer is simply that there are a little too many questions to establish in three months that this is a good thing. But I'm absolutely sure we'll get back to you. In this area, the government has already shown that there is a willingness to deliver that we have not seen before. I'm very hopeful.
