i-c69328df67c5c45f-0	Mr President, I would like to As chairman of the Parliament's Constitutional Committee, it is a great pleasure for me to inform the House that the committee unanimously proposes that the Parliament be elected as the new Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman for Justice Elisabeth Rynning. I note that the Justice Council, together with the other representatives of the Ombudsmen's Office, is sitting in the gallery. I warmly welcome them to the Swedish Parliament! This year it is 207 years since the JO office was established and 206 years since the Parliament in 1810 elected the first Parliamentary Ombudsman, Lars Augustin Mannerheim. Since then, the JO has been responsible for overseeing the authorities and ensuring that they comply with laws and other provisions in their activities. This activity is part of the parliament's power of control and an important force for high quality and legal certainty to prevail in the public administration. The JO office, like the Constitutional Committee itself, is a product of the 1809 state upheaval. By the coup d'état at Stockholm Palace on March 13, 1809, Gustav IV Adolf was deposed, thus ending the Gustavian autocracy. In the new constitution drawn up, the 1809 form of government, several tools were created to review and balance the power of the government. The KU was set up and tasked with reviewing the government, while the JO was set up to review the administration on behalf of the citizens. It is essential that the state meets the requirements of the rule of law and upholds human rights and freedoms. We have seen too many examples throughout history of how bad things can go if they do not happen. In our country, the JO Parliament's mission is to ensure that the state remains good, that the authorities and their representatives comply with the laws and that the individual citizen is entitled to his or her rights. In this way, an important element of the work of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen has always been to ensure that the authorities meet the demands that we today derive from different human rights, and this long before human rights and human rights issues became concepts in the legal and political debate. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Ombudsmen of Justice should be elected by the Parliament. It is an important decision prepared with great care in the KU by a special preparatory delegation. From the beginning, as is well known, a JO was elected, then it was extended to three, and now four Ombudsmen are elected for a period of four years. With the increase in the number of Ombudsmen of Justice, it was decided from 1986 that one of them should be the head of the JO. Chief J's O is the administrative director of the office and determines the overall direction of the operation. On the other hand, each JO itself is responsible for handling its respective complaints and inspection cases and makes its sole decision on them. After a recent chief of the JO Elisabet Fura, who sits here in the gallery, has declined re-election, the KU has worked to find her successor. After this work, the KU has decided to propose that the Riksdag as Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman should elect Elisabeth Rynning. In that case, she was due to take up office on 5 September 2016 and become Sweden's sixth Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman and at the same time the 64th Parliamentary Ombudsman since 1810. Elisabeth Rynning was born in 1955 and has been the Justice of the Supreme Administrative Court since 2012. Prior to that, she was Professor of Medical Law at Uppsala University in 2003– 2012. She became a juris doctor of public law in 1994 and associate professor of public law in 1996. Elisabeth Rynning has had a number of public investigation assignments and other assignments and has been the author and co-author of a large number of Swedish and international publications in the field of medicine law, including privacy issues in healthcare and research and the use of new technology. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee therefore unanimously proposes that the Riksdag of Sweden's Sixth Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman and Sweden's 64th Parliamentary Ombudsman elect Elisabeth Rynning.
i-WGy78QnpjrqPeJAacDdiWo	The following letter had been received from the Constitutional Court: The term for which Elisabet Fura is elected as Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman ends with the end of 2016. Elisabet Fura has announced that she wishes to be dismissed from the outset. 1 August 2016. The House has granted her request. The Constitutional Committee has prepared the question of the election of a new Ombudsman after Ms Elisabet Fura.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-15	Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns something which in several ways is one of the most important reports of the year from the Parliament's Constitutional Committee, namely the report on what is commonly called letter 75, the annual report of the Government to the Riksdag on how the Government has dealt with the letters to the Government or, in other words, to what extent the Government has implemented Parliament's decisions. Decisions on so-called announcements are of course of particular interest. The background to the Government's report is as follows: Almost every time the Riksdag makes a decision on a matter of substantive policy, the Riksdag sends information to the Government about the decision taken. Once a year, the Government reports to the Riksdag how it has handled all the letters sent from the Riksdag to the Government – which letters have been finalised in a way that means that the Government has implemented what Parliament wants, and which letters remain to be finalised? That is the accounting we are now debating. An announcement is, as you know, a decision on a kind of order from the Riksdag to the Government, such as that the Government is expected to investigate an issue and return to the Riksdag with legislative proposals. The legal status of the announcements is not regulated by the Constitution or the Parliamentary Order, but they are subject to legal standards in the form of firm constitutional practice, not least developed by the Constitutional Committee for a long period of years. The starting point is that the Government should satisfy the Riksdag's announcements. Preparation measures following a notice shall be initiated as soon as possible. If the Government does not intend to comply with an announcement, it shall inform the Riksdag thereof and state its reasons. Only in exceptional cases should it take more than two to three years to complete a notice. The reasonableness of time depends on the complexity of preparing the notice, such as whether or not extensive investigative measures are required. Every year in the so-called letter 75, i.e. the report we are now debating, the Government will report on how the Riksdag's announcements have been handled. Since the new government took office in October 2014, the Riksdag has, as you know, sent a record number of announcements to the Government. As has been said, the starting point is that announcements should be met. However, it may be that a certain request from the Riksdag after an investigation turns out to be practically impossible or, for good reason, inappropriate to implement. It is reasonable to add the notice to the file without further action. On the other hand, refusing to implement Parliament's decisions for political reasons is quite different, and it would, as I see it, be a violation of constitutional practice if the government routinely refused to implement parliamentary announcements. The follow-up is carried out so that once the KU has received the Government's annual report, the KU asks the other committees to comment on how the Government has implemented the Riksdag's decisions within the respective committees' remit. This review is then the basis for KU's overall comments. I am pleased that the KU has been able to agree across all party boundaries on this year's comments, and I hope that we will also be able to have a unanimous view of the handling of Parliament's announcements in the coming years. One issue raised in opinions from other committees to the KU is the importance of the government making efforts to avoid unnecessary time spent in responding to Parliament's announcements. The Constitutional Committee shares this view. It is also important, as several committees have pointed out in their opinions, that the government should provide adequate information on the reasons for the delay in handling cases where, after all, there is a delay. In addition to the general comments, the KU has some comments on a few individual announcements, but I refrain from going into them in more detail. Instead, I note that, in addition to the review of the government's accounts, this year's report also contains a fundamental argument on an issue that has attracted some attention and debate in Parliament, namely the question of how to look at so-called negative announcements. The Constitutional Committee decided on 10 December 2015 to evaluate certain issues concerning announcements and the distinction between the Riksdag and the Government. The committee's office has reviewed all the more than 2 000 announcements made by the Riksdag from the Parliamentary Session of 1991/ 92 to April 2016 – an impressive piece of work. One conclusion of the survey is that it is not easy to clearly determine what is a negative announcement. In linguistic terms, it is thought that a negative announcement means that the government should not take any action. On the other hand, if the Riksdag announces to the Government that a particular activity should continue to be carried on, it could be argued that that decision has the same practical meaning as a decision that the government may not close down the activity in question. In view of this uncertainty about the definition of negative announcements, the KU's position focuses in particular on announcements that are worded as saying that the government should not present a particular proposal or should not investigate a particular issue. Such announcements are very rare. There are only a few examples in this very comprehensive review, but it is nevertheless important to establish some starting points. If the Riksdag says that the Government should not propose a certain measure to the Riksdag, there will be a clear friction with Chapter 4. Section 4, the form of government, where it is established that the government has a constitutional right to submit proposals to the Riksdag. Since announcements are not governed by constitution or law, but only by practice, they cannot take over the rules of government. This does not in itself mean that there is a formal obstacle for Parliament to decide on such an announcement, but it cannot be argued that the government would commit a constitutional error if the government chose to put a bill on the subject, contrary to the announcement. If the proposals in the bill do not have support in the Riksdag, the Riksdag can, as usual, reject the bill. The conclusion of the KU will be that the government has to deal with announcements, negatives and others, under parliamentary responsibility. ..................................................... With regard to announcements that the Government may not investigate a particular issue, it is noted that the Government's preparation requirements in Chapter 7 are noted. Section 2 states that government matters, such as proposals, must be prepared. If a proposal does not have sufficient evidence, it may not be submitted by the Government. Preventing the government from taking preparatory measures as part of the process of developing a bill could thus indirectly imply a curtailment of the government's right of initiative. On the other hand, there are other types of government decisions than decisions on regulations or proposals. There are therefore investigative and other preparatory measures that do not aim to create the basis for a proposal or a regulation. Measures of this kind may also affect the development of society, but they will not of course come under parliamentary scrutiny. One example may be that the government appoints a state coordinator to encourage the municipalities to act in a certain way. Another example may be that the government appoints a negotiating person to negotiate with municipalities, county councils and other actors in a particular area in order for them to agree on, for example, a certain investment. In this way, the Government can influence the development of society without involving the Riksdag. In such situations, it is natural that the Riksdag can, through announcements, tell the Government what the Riksdag thinks about the work that is going on. The KU puts it a little more formally:- Even in such cases, there may be a need for the Riksdag to communicate its opinion to the government. However, such parliamentary decisions may not, of course, mean that the Riksdag interferes in administrative tasks in violation of the government form. The position on negative announcements that the KU is now presenting, Mr President, is therefore carefully balanced. There are a number of reasonings of the type, on the one hand – on the other – and a lot of reasoning on the other. The KU states that the form of government takes precedence over announcements but at the same time does not say that so-called negative announcements are prohibited. The KU presents the various tools the Riksdag has to influence the formal decision-making process, but at the same time says that when it comes to measures by the Government beyond the reach of the Parliament's formal decision-making power, the Riksdag may have a legitimate need to notify the Government if the measures have support in the Riksdag or not. With this, the KU hopes unanimously to have established an approach and practice that can become permanent and provide guidance regardless of which parties form the basis of government and who constitute opposition. That is why, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-37	Mr President, I would like to I would like to agree with many parts of what the esteemed Chairman of the Constitutional Committee has just said. However, I would like to add a few comments. I would first like to mention KU's own announcement on operating aid for low frequency newspapers. In its letter to the Riksdag, the Government considers that this has been completed, but we believe that it is not fully satisfied and that the government should return to the matter as soon as possible. With regard to so-called negative announcements, we in the Constitutional Committee have made a unanimous assessment that we believe should be able to guide how negative announcements should be assessed and how they should be handled by parties in parliament and in the government. Announcements remain unregulated in the form of government. The government handles them under parliamentary responsibility. The President has correctly presented the tensions that may exist in the government's regulations on the right of each government to make proposals and the obligation to investigate and prepare these proposals. The problem arises when we have a government that focuses on a matter but does not have a majority in parliament, a minority government. This is usually the case in Sweden for a long time. Against this minority government, there is a majority in parliament for certain measures. This is where the problem can come up. The President has rightly said that this question will be resolved if a government submits a proposal to Parliament and the Parliament rejects it. This has allowed both sides to show their opinion and political opinion, but it is the Riksdag that makes the decisive position. But I would like to point out that Parliament can also correct or supplement the government's own norm-making power. This is because we have clauses in the form of government that give the Riksdag the final opportunity to determine according to which standards a particular area of society should be governed. That's 8th. 6 § the form of government that provides so-called subordination. This rarely happens, but the meaning is that the Riksdag decides that in order for a decree from the Government, a decree, to gain final legal force, the Government must first obtain the Riksdag's position. This has happened in isolated cases. I see in the cabinet's excellent briefing that it happened 2010/11. According to 8th chapter. Section 8 of the form of government, the Riksdag can always make regulations that take over the government's appointing authority or otherwise the norm-making power. We recall with our wording these rarely used provisions. We recall, and they are thus, one might say, regarded as living realities in our form of government. It's important. They're there. The Constitutional Committee notes that they play a role. So the majority in this House does not really have to make such negative declarations because it fears or does not want to see the government make a regulation or other regulations in a government decision that run counter to a majority in this House. The chamber can use 8 chapters. Section 6 and Chapter 8 Section 8 to correct. Government decisions addressed to what is regulated for central government, in Chapter 12. Section 3, the form of government, gives less room for the Riksdag for such appeals of the government's position. However, as the chairman pointed out: Depending on how the wording is made by the Riksdag, there is undoubtedly some room to highlight the position of the Riksdag in such a decision as well. The restriction here, I would like to conclude by saying, is, in my opinion, due to the experience of the famous state of freedom. After all, it was a form of government that placed Parliament at the centre and has received a lot of praise afterwards for many of its parts. However, there were problematic parts. One was that the Riksdag took over as the closest court and government and made decisions concerning individuals. That order was not good and is a system that has not been allowed to do so since then in our constitutions from 1809 onwards. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report 21.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-48	Mr President, I would like to When we talk today about the handling of Parliament's letters, I would first like to pay tribute to the Riksdag Board for what appears to be exemplary handling or at least accounting for it. It is also gratifying to note from letter 75 that the Government's report for several years has also become more detailed and improved so that it now gives a formally correct picture of the handling, although it is still the case that some parts are perhaps well concise and there is still some improvement potential when it comes to reporting when measures relating to parliamentary letters are expected to be finalised. As has already been pointed out here today, the Constitutional Committee and the other committees also highlight the importance of the government making efforts to avoid unnecessary time. What, on the other hand, gives rise to a slightly different and perhaps less positive assessment is to read in the same letter that the government intends to try to change the constitutional practice that has long been in existence, which simply states that it reserves the right not to have as a starting point to satisfy certain announcements coming from the Riksdag. It is now the case that the Constitutional Committee has examined these issues on several occasions, most recently in connection with an opinion to the Education Committee as late as this year, and noted that an announcement from the Riksdag, since it is not regulated, can look a little bit anyway and that the government actually has to deal with it, no matter how it is designed. We have also heard some here today say that an announcement can be formulated in slightly different ways and still have the same practical meaning. Once again – as has also been pointed out by others here today – we can see that if the government does not intend to comply with an announcement, it is up to it to state the reasons why it does not intend to do so. The Riksdag will then also have a completely different opportunity to relate to this answer, and it will be clearly stated that an announcement cannot be dismissed in the routine. We have also heard that Parliament can then in turn ensure that its will is carried through the legislative process. The Government cannot oppose the Riksdag if the Riksdag chooses to make regulations by law. However, it is also the case that proposals made by the Riksdag itself, if we now want to use this opportunity, must be prepared, as well as if it is a question of perhaps trying to make proposals that will clean up something that the government has done on its own initiative. Should it turn out that the Riksdag needs to prepare matters more and more often because of the government's failure to comply with the Riksdag's announcement, in any case, I see no other way out than that a redistribution of financial resources also needs to come about in order to build up such a parallel preparation activity. It is not reasonable to think of a situation in which the Riksdag first makes an announcement that the government should do something, the Government answers that they do not intend to do so and the Riksdag will then return to the Government with a new announcement that yes, you must certainly investigate or prepare this question. So it comes back to Parliament that we will probably have to prepare it ourselves. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the government is wiser to back off its arbitrarily proposed practice shift and accept that the parliament is the people's main representative and that the government has to listen enthusiastically and humbly to the Riksdag and the people, at least if it wishes to continue to be tolerated by the Riksdag.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-57	Mr President, I would like to We are now talking about the KU21, and it is a report based on what is called a letter 75 from the government. In letter 75, the Government reviews how it has handled the various decisions of the Riksdag and especially the various announcements, that is, points where the Riksdag commissions the Government to return with something. It goes without saying that the number of announcements is increasing under minority governments. It also goes without saying that the government that has declared itself a cooperation government needs to take these announcements very seriously and maintain a good dialogue with the Riksdag. The committee notes that letter 75 gives a formally correct picture of Parliament's letters and that the report has become more detailed than before on ongoing and planned measures. One of the more fundamental elements of the KU21 on which the KU has now arrived in agreement is, as several other speakers have said, what is called a negative announcement n. A negative announcement is when a majority in a committee and then also the Riksdag tells the government that it should not investigate or take action. According to the investigation we in the KU have done, this possibility has only been used seven times. But most cases have been in recent years. Therefore, it has been important for us in the KU to analyse it, in order to find a common approach to what the rules between the parliament and the government should look like. There have been several negative announcements. Among the most hot have been the issue of Bromma airport. The contradiction between government representatives and the opposition has been rather loud on this issue. This is partly due to the fact that there is considerable explosive power in the political balance between maintaining Bromma airport and building housing there. For KU, however, it has been about the tools that should be used to enforce its political will to either keep or close Bromma airport. The negative announcement made by the Transport Committee is that the committee does not want a negotiator for Bromma airport to be appointed. The government looked at this and then stated in letter 75 how it had acted. They told us that they had interrupted the part about Bromma airport and made sure that it became a broader assignment that would be about the flight in the Stockholm region. This meant that the government felt that the whole thing had been carried out. When the letter then came to the Transport Committee, the committee felt that the government had not done at all what Parliament wanted. In a large part of the completion of the mission, Bromma airport is also handled. That is why it is not in line with Parliament's announcement. What we say in the KU is that it is important that the government has the possibility of investigating power and that it is important that the Riksdag can say what it wants. I believe that the investigative services play a particularly important role in politically sensitive issues. It is by allowing someone or some to devote time to the conflicts and cave into where the conflicts and unity are located that one can move on from locked positions. That is why I really want to warn that too narrowly held negative announcements can have negative effects in terms of moving forward on important issues. The KU has landed in a completely Solomonic letter. I'll read it in front of me: a situation may arise in relation to certain types of negative announcements, which means that the Riksdag, through an announcement, expresses that the Government should not propose a certain measure to the Riksdag as soon as the Government under Chapter 4. Section 4 RF has a constitutional right to add proposals to the Riksdag. Since announcements are unregulated, they cannot take over the rules of government. The government thus has to deal with announcements, negatives and others, under parliamentary responsibility. ..................................................... I would therefore like the letter to be added to the record.
i-AhwSUFK4QsvNKWG6TGUpCs	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Agneta. We fully agree with the principled conditions and with the rules that are purely formal. At the same time, you mention, Agneta Börjesson, that your entry is that it is important, precisely in politically sensitive issues, that the government has the right to start investigations and thereby be able to highlight things in many different ways. There's a point to that. It has its merits. I interpreted what you said as saying that there would be negative consequences if one tried somehow to limit that power. Can you see that there may be situations where there may be negative effects to begin u third in matters where stability and predictability outweigh the right for the government to start stirring in the pot? Can you see what practical consequences that could have for society at large?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-70	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure there may be negative consequences. We also say that there must be parliamentary support. That's what it's all about. What I mean is that in matters where there has been a major political conflict for a long time there may be every reason to withdraw the investigation, look a little deeper at it and see how to move forward and where to find new majorities. I believe that the investigative services play a major and important role in breaking locks that are easily present in a speaker's chair or an electoral movement.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-72	Mr President, I would like to I've got an answer to my question.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-73	Mr President, I would like to We in the Constitutional Committee have examined the Government's and the Riksdag Board's statements, in which they describe how they have dealt with Parliament's letters in 2015. They and we in the KU have followed up on what has happened to the announcements that the Riksdag has decided to submit. The KU stresses the importance of the government's efforts to avoid unnecessary time before the announcements are answered. In this report, under the heading, questions about announcements and the relationship between Parliament and the Government, the KU presents our view of the government's culprits regarding announcements. We are doing this particularly in the light of the fact that the Government has, in its presentation, in some cases made negative statements to the Riksdag, meaning that the Government should not take any action. The Constitutional Committee notes that, according to constitutional practice, the government is obliged to respond to all announcements. If the time of reply has been stated in an announcement, the reply to the Riksdag shall be submitted by the Government within this time limit. But the answer from the government may be that the government needs longer time or a justification because it somehow does not intend to satisfy the announcement. As regards negative announcements, the KU notes that the form of government takes precedence over constitutional practice. This means that the Riksdag cannot prevent the Government from investigating and preparing matters or from submitting proposals to the Riksdag. But a negative announcement from the Riksdag can of course be a signal to the government that it is not meaningful to make proposals with a certain content. The report shows that a total of 183 parliamentary letters were not completed at year-end 2015/ 16. Of them, 81 are from the time after the government's Löfven took office. The oldest non-answered announcement is from the Parliamentary Session 1999/ 20 00 and concerns a comprehensive presentation of hunting issues. Mr President, I would like to With regard to non-concluding announcements in the area of the Constitutional Committee, there are several issues that I myself have been involved in through motions to Parliament. This applies, among other things, to delays at the level of the authorities. I have pointed out unreasonable lengths of processing by public authorities, including for companies applying for authorisation to expand their activities. The government refers to the work on a new administrative law, which is now being consulted. I have exercised and the Parliament has decided to announce a so-called event list for television broadcasts that will allow more people to watch certain television broadcasts. The government promises to come back with proposals this autumn. The government has set up an investigation into the joint distribution of newspapers and mail which I hope will soon lead to a bill. An announcement by the Constitutional Committee on increased operational support for low-frequency newspapers does not consider the Constitutional Committee to be fully satisfied by the government. But it is not presented by the government in the report. In the budget bill, the government has included an increase in support for two-day newspapers. However, since low-frequency newspapers also include one-day newspapers, the committee considers that the announcement has not been fully met by the government. The committee points this out and assumes that the government will return to the matter as soon as possible, for example in the budget proposal this autumn. I am grateful that our Vice-Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Björn von Sydow, highlighted this unanswered announcement in the debate. It gives me good hope that the issue will be resolved quickly. Mr President, I would like to I propose that the Riksdag include the Government's letter and the Riksdag Board's report in the documents.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-84	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with the Government's Letter Committee Report 2016. In it, the Government presents a report on the activities of the committees set up following a decision by the Government last year. This applies to both traditional committees with the task of investigating certain issues and other bodies, whether or not they are independent authorities. This year they are all considered to belong to the Government Office. The Committee report contains information on the composition of the committees, their work for the duration of the report, as well as information on the costs of committee work and the distribution between women and men in the committees. In 2015, 74 committees were set up, compared to 97 in 2014. In 2015, 99 committees were closed. The corresponding figure for 2014 was 69 committees. The Government's letter shows that the total costs for the committees in 2015 were just over SEK 500 million, which is the same as for 2014. In 2014, the gender balance was completely balanced, except in the group of presidents. Within that group, the proportion of women has increased by 3 per cent to 41 per cent, which is positive. Within the group of members, the proportion of women has increased by 1% to 46%. Within the group of experts, women are in the majority, with a share of 52%. The proportion of women in the secretaries and others is 61 per cent and the share is the same as in the previous year. The government does not provide an account of the age composition of the committees. On the other hand, the Government notes that in the monitoring of the age composition of the committees that has been carried out since the 1990s, the proportion of members for 30 years has remained relatively constant and has reached only 1 per cent. It is also stated in the letter that consideration should be given to what measures could be taken to increase the proportion of young members on the committees. A new survey to follow this up is planned in the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to The committee also proposes that the Riksdag reject a motion for a general motion period 2015/ 16 on the labelling of proposals, on the grounds that the committee concerned appears on the Parliament's website. In doing so, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal, that is to say, that the Parliament adds the letter to the file and rejects the motion for a resolution.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-88	Mr President, I would like to The KU28 report deals with the reports on the activities submitted by Parliament's Board of Governors, in accordance with the existing regulations. Which authorities are they talking about? It is the Board for the remuneration of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen and the National Auditors, the Party Grants Board, the Parliamentary Board of Responsibilities, the Parliamentary Board of Appeal, the National Council of State Fees Board and the Election Review Board. The Board authorities each have a separate and collective importance for democracy, order and order, and transparency, but most of the work is done in silence. The fact that these committees are to submit their statements to the Riksdag is derived from decisions from both 2012 and 2013. We have been applying the rules since then. There are no absolute requirements in the current regulatory framework on how RACs should make their accounts. In committee, we note that the activities differ and that the accounts can therefore look somewhat different. At the same time, however, it is desirable for the authorities to make similar accounts in respect of revenue and expenditure, tasks for the Board, number of meetings, members and so on – in order to provide a comprehensive and fair view of the Boards' activities. This position has been taken by the Constitutional Committee in 2015 and this year in its reports. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would like to inform the House that yesterday the Parliamentary Board dealt with a proposal with the meaning that the Constitutional Committee has expressed its wish for two years. The Swedish Parliament's Board proposes a new law on budget and financial administration for the Swedish Parliament's authorities that is better in line with the budget law that we have today. The new law will replace the old law, the so-called REACH Act of 2006. The starting point is that the economic and administrative framework for both content and language should be consistent with that for the government and its authorities. This means, among other things, that one becomes obliged to make a cost statement for the business. In the case of the Parliamentary Board of Liability, this shall be governed by another law, the law on decision-making bodies in matters of disciplinary responsibility, etc. concerning employees of the Riksdag and its authorities – a law with a long name. The Constitutional Committee believes that the accounts of the Board authorities have been satisfactory. But with the forthcoming adjustments proposed by the Riksdag Board, the reports will be even more similar and thus more transparent and give a fair view. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-95	Mr President, I would like to We do not have a reservation in this report, but a specific opinion, which I would now like to present. A heading such as a report on the activities of Parliament's committees is perhaps not very exciting or even very important. But behind the somewhat blood-poor title is such an important right that is being eroded, namely the electoral secret. One of the pillars of a democracy is the right to support the parties and politicians that they want without having to explain this publicly. For those of us who now have the honour of sitting in this Chamber – at least for the vast majority of us – the journey probably began by having a certain interest in social policy, an interest that developed and subsequently led us to seek membership of one of the political parties that we represent today. The vast majority of us will remember what it was like that time when we agreed to stand as candidates for our party in the local elections and how we reasoned about going from being anonymous and secure as individuals to entering the public domain as political representatives. Taking this step into the public domain means, in addition to the possibility of influencing society in political assemblies such as this and also local ones, a lot of sacrifices. We have probably all read about things that have happened and how politicians at different levels have been exposed to different kinds of threats, violence or other reprisals. It may well be that one or some of us here today have experienced something similar and can recognize that situation. Mr President, I would like to We should be proud that there is a large turnout in Sweden. But we also see that, unfortunately, there are problems in getting people to dare and want to get involved in political life and to stand in these political assemblies as public representatives. On the contrary, many may choose to support their party in some other way, for example by donating money. This has always been done anonymously in the past. Many have probably chosen to go this way for reasons that they have to explain for themselves. But for some reason they have chosen not to represent a party, but this has been a way that has suited them to hear their political opinion. As I said, doing this anonymously has been an absolute right in the past. However, this right has now been restricted by the fact that donations from private individuals under the Act on transparency in the financing of parties should be reported to Kammarkollegiet, who in turn on its website presents the identity and name of the persons who have contributed to different parties. I'm on 2nd chapter. Paragraph 2 states that none of the general public must be obliged to give its political opinion. It is also laid down in Chapter 2. Section 3 the form of government that no Swedish citizen without consent may be entered in a general register solely because of political opinion. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has previously received international criticism from, among other things, the European Commission regarding how we handle the election secret. Election fraud has been observed, and in some cases it has been considered so serious that the elections have been re-elected. Denmark has even talked about perhaps having to send election observers to Sweden to guarantee the secret of the elections and ensure that the elections are conducted properly. For me as a Swedish Democrat and a strong supporter of democracy, it is frightening to see how the electoral secret is being eroded. However, since there is currently an ongoing investigation into how contributions to parties are to be reported in the future, we have therefore chosen not to reserve ourselves this time, but only to make a specific opinion. I very much hope that the ongoing investigation will conclude that the electoral secret is worth preserving.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-106	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. There is reason to be proud of Sweden's contribution to the OSSE as a whole but also to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. We are financially one of the major contributors to the work of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. But above all, we are active and follow a long Swedish tradition of being very active and driving in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I have also been one of the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly over the past year and have been given the privilege of leading the international observation in the run-up to the presidential elections in Belarus on 11 October 2015. But I am far from alone in being active when it comes to being out there and observing. The Swedish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is the most active in observing elections. It is perhaps that part of the OSCE's parliamentary work that is gaining the greatest international respect and for which we are best known. Today, there is no other organisation in fact living up to this standard, this scope and this respect because of the systematic approach that we have within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly with regard to the credible, well-organised and proven management of election observation in various countries. 2015 has been a special year for the OSSE as a whole. It was 40 years since the OSSE was founded. It was previously called the ESC, and it was founded in 1973. There is reason to reflect on these 40 years and to reflect on why the organisation was once formed – i.e. the ESC, the European Security Conference, which eventually became the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. At that time – 1973 – there were two different perspectives on the formation of this organization. It was the Soviet Union that wanted to keep the Communist States together, but it was also Western Europe that saw an opportunity to reduce tensions in the region through this cooperation and to promote economic cooperation that would lead to ways of improving the humanitarian situation of the peoples of Eastern Europe. Now, 40 years later, we are in a situation of great tension. On the one hand, it is not about the Soviet Union, but about Russia and some of Russia's related states. On the other side is Europe, the USA and others. The OSSE is an inclusive organisation. There are different organisations that have different roles. We have previously held a seat in the Council of Europe and were one of those who decided to there largely exclude Russia after the intervention in Crimea, which was unacceptable and still remains completely unacceptable. But there is a difference between different organisations and different roles. Instead, the OSSE has actually been revitalised by the conflict that we find ourselves in. The talks are continuing within the OSSE, and perhaps the most important points of attention are the talks conducted through the so-called Minsk process and the Minsk agreements. Also within the Parliamentary Assembly, various initiatives to promote détente, dialogue and conflict management continue, as well as transparency and work to promote democracy and ensure that the countries that are part of the OSSE live up to the states that exist within the OSSE and that they have actually committed themselves to living up to. I am working intensively precisely with Belarus, which has a long journey ahead of me to move towards democratisation and be a country that meets the demands we are making of a country like Belarus as a full member of the OSSE. As I mentioned, I am proud of the Swedish delegation. Many of the Members are busy out making election observations, but they are also active in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Vice-Chairman of the delegation, Margareta Cederfelt, is the rapporteur of one of the committees. Last year, Christian Holm Barenfeld chaired the Belarus Group. We also have others who are very diligent. It's been that way over time. Different generations of Swedish parliamentarians have contributed a great deal. All in all, this means that today there is a solid trust in Swedish members acting within the framework of the OSSE. It is not without the conflict having entered the organisation as well. Prior to the annual winter meeting in Vienna last year, Russia appointed a member from Crimea to join its delegation. I was one of those who was entrusted to a so-called 'credentials committee', an accreditation committee, which was to examine the right of Members to attend the work of the Assembly during the winter meeting. Of course, I and my four five colleagues unanimously decided that a member from Crimea was not in the Russian delegation. In any case, the OSSE would not recognise him as a person who was able to attend the OSCE meeting. The Russian nomination was rejected on the grounds that a Member of Parliament had to represent the nominated country in order to participate. You understand that this was not acknowledged by us. At the summer meeting in Finland – a meeting that took place at the place where the ESC, i.e. the OSSE, was once formed, namely in the House of Finland – the conflict came up again. As you know, a number of representatives of Russia are on the list of sanctions. Here the question came back into the OSSE, and the Finnish Government decided not to allow access for a few people in the delegation appointed to represent Russia. Even though the OSSE and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly are an inclusive organisation, we too are faced with the challenges posed by the current conflict. We also had an autumn meeting in Ulan Bator, Mongolia, which is the latest full member of the OSSE. Mongo liet's done this with bravur. The country is active and has lived up to many of the expectations we have of this new member state of the OSSE. The members of the delegation also participate in a wide range of other activities, and it may be particularly important to mention a few of them. Germany is taking active initiatives to try to bring together parliamentarians from Ukraine and Russia, for example, and thus contribute to the use of parliamentary diplomacy to find a way forward. I myself have spoken about developments in Belarus at the Vilnius Nordic Council, and there are other examples of our Members being invited to talk about their experiences with the work of the OSCE. To conclude, I would like to say that it is clear that the OSSE and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly have played a very vital role. In a situation where the arenas for contacts and dialogue are becoming fewer and fewer, many from countries with both frozen and ongoing conflicts are now really seeing the OSSE as the place for dialogue. Perhaps the hopes are many times greater than we can live up to, but many of countries such as Georgia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Ukraine, Belarus and Russia see the OSSE as an organisation and place for dialogue and dialogue today.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-126	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report UU14 Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSSE). As the chairman of the delegation Kent Härstedt has said, the Swedish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is a very active delegation, Mr President. We are fully involved in the work of the OSCE, and we are doing so in the arenas available. I would like to start by saying that last year the twenty-fourth session of the OSCE was held. This year's work was carried out on the theme of "Recalling the Spirit of Helsinki", which refers to the Helsinki Declaration adopted on 23 July 1973. Unfortunately, I have to say that the content of the Helsinki Declaration is just as topical today, 2016– as in 2015, which is the year of the report – as it was in 1973. The declaration addresses issues that are important and urgent in the work of the OSCE. They're about 中 that all states are equal 中 that there should be an inherent right to the sovereignty of the countries 中 that countries should refrain from threats of use or use of power 中 that each country has an inviolable right to its borders and protection of its integrity 中 finding peaceful solutions to disagreements and applying non-intervention in internal affairs Having respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms such as freedom of thought, conscience, religion and faith - that people should have equal rights and self-determination 中 that states should cooperate and comply in good faith with obligations to international law. That is exactly what the OSCE's work is about. How, then, did the OSSE go about actually commemorating and paying attention to the theme of Recalling the Spirit of Helsinki? Yes, among other things by giving a commission to Sipri, the Swedish research institute for peace and conflict research, who produced a writing. This was based on extensive work involving researchers and politicians and seminars in the USA, Sweden, Russia and several countries. This shows that the work carried out within the OSSE is being carried out in cooperation. This is happening on several levels in order for us to try to move forward with peaceful solutions to major problems, Mr President. The work of the OSCE is carried out in the three dimensions of political and security issues, the economy and the environment, democracy and human rights. Political issues and security have become an increasingly relevant and topical issue on the agenda. These are the conflicts that exist in the OSCE's geographical area. This applies not only to things such as the Russian aggression against Ukraine but also to what we call frozen conflicts but which have flared up and are very much alive today. I am thinking here of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Here, the OSSE plays a crucial role by brokering peace and involving parliamentarians, but also by having observers in place in Ukraine to work for peace and security. As mentioned earlier by the Chair of the delegation, the OSSE consists of 57 participating states, from Mongolia to the east to the United States and Canada to the west. This is unique. An organization spanning 57 countries can make a difference. I believe that we will see more of the OSCE's action in the arena in the coming years. In 2015, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly replaced Secretary-General when former Secretary-General Spencer Oliver left after a large number of years within the organisation. The new Secretary-Roberto, Roberto Montella, has great visions for the coming years, but I will not dwell on them because the case deals with the activities of 2015. The recruitment of a new Secretary-General was primarily carried out by the Agency, but large parts of the OSSE were involved and in various ways active in the appointment of the new Secretary-General. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned earlier the third dimension, democracy and human rights. Democracy is one of the major tasks the OSSE is working on. Between 1993 and 2015, the OSSE has carried out a total of nearly 100 election observation missions. It is about the monitoring of parliamentary elections and of presidential elections. Last year, the OSSE carried out six surveillance missions. Swedish MPs participated in all of these, in some cases in leading positions. I myself was the head of the OSCE PA delegation at the elections in Turkey. By participating in election observation, the OSSE actively contributes to democracy. But what is an election observation? I would like to say a few words about this. It is an extremely important issue that elections are conducted in a democratic manner. The OSSE works together with other organisations and in organisations for democracy and human rights, and in many contexts it works with the Council of Europe. What the OSSE is doing is to ensure that there are observers in place before the elections to see what the country's constitution looks like, if there is freedom, if there is free media, if there is an election movement and how the electoral authority and administration are structured. When it comes to the election day itself, short-term observers, we Members of Parliament, come from the 57 countries of the OSCE. First you get a briefing about what the country looks like, and then you're out in the field. They visit polling stations from the time the premises are prepared for opening until the ballot papers are numbered and handed over to the election authority during the election night. However, the work of the OSCE does not stop at this, but it has, of course, made observations which form the basis of the final report. The OSSE then offers recommendations and an opportunity for each country to continue to develop its democracy, with the support of the OSSE if desired. I would like to emphasise that this is a very important piece of work, especially today, when we see a decline in democracy in many places. Then it is important that we monitor and from the Swedish side are involved in the organisations that actively work to support democracy and do not allow dark forces to displace the right of all citizens to use their voice in free democratic elections. That is exactly what the OSSE is about.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-151	Mr President, I would like to This is a small report which concerns a great deal of activity for many countries in and beyond our Europe. It is not just a question of security and cooperation in Europe and in the European countries, as has been demonstrated earlier in the debate. On behalf of another delegation, I would like to thank those who are and have been active in the OSSE Parliamentary Assembly. It is important that we have this opportunity for dialogue and participation. I shall touch briefly on a few points, Mr President. One of them concerns the Minsk work and the Minsk process. It is a process that we all say we are behind, but which, in fact, in the past year has had a real setback, because we have had another open conflict that has led to death. The war between Armenia and Azerbaijan on Nagorno-Karabakh has not moved forward. There is a great irritation about the structure of this structure. The Russian action in other areas of unresolved conflict shows a clear will to keep the open wound and not to heal it. Many people feel that it is impossible for Russia to have the right of veto and, at the same time, have no interest in resolving the conflicts. This is a process that we have every reason to think a little more about in the coming years. There are also actors in this context who want to try to break up and see something else happen, because they see this as not being accessible in principle. The challenge for the OSSE is, of course, in addition to the Minsk process, Ukraine. There too, one of many exclamations is that there are Russian votes in the OSCE monitoring mechanism in order not to give a clear name to certain things and not to raise all the issues. The fear that this is something that is not quite clear is, of course, serious. We participate from the Swedish side. It is important, and it is good that we are there. A great deal of work is done under difficult conditions. But it is clear that the promises have not been fulfilled here either. The OSSE does not have access to the entire territory and has recently also been directly shot at by separatists in eastern Ukraine. This, of course, will also be followed. There is an underlying debate which the Russian side is trying to raise, namely that it wants to see another architecture in terms of security in Europe. Here there is reason for us to make sure that we do not become part of the problem. I think there is every reason to think about this in the coming years. With regard to election observation, Mr President, the work done by the parliamentary group is, of course, important, but especially important is the work done by Odihr, because it provides the conditions both for election observation for OSCE parliamentarians and for the observers of the Council of Europe to have a long-term review and not just on election day itself. That's why election observation is a very important part. I hope and assume that you know in the Parliamentary Assembly that you are working to ensure that Odihr has continued to have good opportunities to operate. Not least, it will be absolutely crucial if one is invited to and participates as a parole officer at the 8 December elections, that Odihr is given the opportunity to be there. It should not be a small delegation for a short time, but should be able to observe and follow the elections for a long time. It is, of course, important and good that you in the parliamentary delegation also stick to not recognising Russia's borders as Russia itself sees them. It's welcome. It is absolutely vital that we are not drawn into the trap that the Russian Duma and the Russian system are trying to build in the various environments in which we seem to be drawn into: to bring their views into the territory of Russia by the back door. Crimea, of course, is not part of Russia. Let me also say: watch out for Belarus! We have been able to follow Belarus over the years, and Lukasjenko is not to be played with. He has a clear and visible pattern, and he comes and goes in our systems. It is important that we do not play after old notes, because then we will soon see an increase in the number of political prisoners and abuses leading to sanctions on our part. Mr President, I would like to I thank the delegation and support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-162	Mr President, I would like to I felt urged to respond to some of this, and I'll try to do it quickly. Since I also have a broader responsibility for the parliamentary assembly's work as Vice-President, I can say this: As regards Ukraine, I was the special coordinator for the parliamentary elections on 26 October 2014 when the current Parliament was elected. I did not fully follow Kerstin Lundgren's views on the elections or elections. I assume that Kerstin Lundgren refers to the potentially upcoming local elections in the Donbas area of eastern Ukraine. Otherwise, I do not really understand what the points of view were. The elections that took place were recognised and respected in spite of the great difficulties encountered in Ukraine with large groups of internally displaced persons. As far as the forthcoming local elections are concerned, this will take place subject to compliance with a certain standard which provides the conditions for international surveillance to be in the area. Otherwise, Odihr or the OSSE will not want to be involved in the implementation of an observation process in an election that can be manipulated and controlled through threats and danger. The Parliamentary Assembly will not monitor the elections in Russia unless Mr Odihr is allowed to do his work in advance. These are principles we have adopted in our Assembly, and we will not participate.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-169	Mr President, I would like to I was not talking about elections in Ukraine. There must have been a misunderstanding. Let's read in the Minutes if I said something I didn't intend to say. As far as Ukraine is concerned, we need to see how the work of the OSCE works, because we can become part of the problem in the work of the Russian government to try to change Europe's security architecture. Like the Minsk Group, the OSCE mission can be part of a problem and not part of a solution. We'll see about that. I also know that Steinmeier has the ambition to bring about new discussions about a new architecture. As far as we are concerned, we are clear here and in other reports that we stick to and protect the security architecture that we have agreed. It is important to safeguard it, and I assume that we do not disagree on it. It was precisely the Russian election I was talking about. It is good if the Parliamentary Assembly is clear that it does not stand without Odihr. I assume that the Council of Europe will not do so either. If Odihr is given the opportunity to participate, it is up to you to decide on what conditions, but at the latest it was a strict demarcation by the Russian government in the case of long-term observers. This made the situation impossible. That is why Mr Odihr chose not to stand up at all, and that can, of course, happen again.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-173	Mr President, I would like to I have not heard that the OSSE would be a problem in Ukraine. I have spoken to Foreign Minister Klimkin, and he sees it as an asset. He appreciates the work of the OSCE in Ukraine. The immediate prospect is to try to get elections in eastern Ukraine. I put the emphasis there because that is the next step. The question is whether it can come about. When it comes to not having differences of opinion with the Council of Europe, it wants the Council of Europe not to repeat what happened in Azerbaijan. Mr Odihr and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly chose not to go there. However, the Council of Europe went there and presented a report that can really be considered. I don't think the problems are on our side, to be honest. As far as Odihr's work is concerned, I am in close dialogue with Chief Ambassador Link. He's doing a fine piece of work. Finally, let me comment on Belarus. The Duma elections in Belarus will be held in September. We will follow closely what has happened since the presidential elections last year. Hopefully we will see for the first time that opposition parties will take their place in the Duma in Belarus. It is self-evident that we should be in place and, as usual, from the Swedish side have a substantial delegation that will monitor that this election hopefully goes better than the last election, for which I was the special coordinator. Despite the poor starting position in respect internationally, little progress is still being made in Belarus. The European Union and the European Parliament think so, and we also see these small steps.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-179	Mr President, I would like to The small steps forward we have seen in the past, but these small steps have often been replaced in large steps backwards. It is therefore important to watch out. Is there a free opposition in the elections in Belarus, or are there only those approved by Lukasjenko to stand up? In Russia, too, we see that the free opposition does not have the opportunity to operate, but they are imprisoned or driven out. It's a story that's tragic for our neighborhood. With regard to Eastern Ukraine and Ukraine as a whole, I am not saying that the OSSE is part of the problem. But beware, because the work of the OSCE includes Russian voices that limit and create a picture that everything does not come out because some things are not acceptable to the Russian role. It is part of the OSCE system that I think we need to be vigilant about. Here we, as parliamentarians, have a particularly important role to play in examining so that we do not become part of the problem. The Russian side has an interest in maintaining this type of structure, for it benefits their interest in keeping that type of activity going without results. Ukraine does not have access to the whole territory. It is totally unacceptable that the Russian side should not ensure that Ukraine has access to its borders and that Russia does not step back. The OSSE does not take a clear position vis-à-vis Russia in its criticism, but is, as it were, part of the agreement.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-184	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren raised one, as I see it, extremely important and central question: Is it to the benefit of democracy or not that several countries with different social systems – some dictatorships, some democracies – exist within the same organisation? Can this lead forward in a democratic direction, with respect for the values that we hold dear in Sweden with several other countries? Yeah, I'd say. It is extremely urgent to use the international organisations – the OSSE, the UN and the Council of Europe, to name a few – in this way. But it is important to have your compass right and correct and to call a cow a cow and a dictatorship a dictatorship and certainly not tremble at the cuffs in those contexts. It's supposed to be a high discussion-- that's the only way to move forward. With regard to the work of election observers, Odihr is an extremely central element in the conduct of election observation, as I mentioned in my speech. I would like to mention the example that Kent Härstedt mentioned: Azerbaijan. Odihr was not welcome there. From the OSCE side, it was obvious that we would not participate – there was nothing to discuss. This is exactly how the OSSE will continue to act in the future. Again: It is important to know how a job should be done.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-187	Mr President, I would like to I have in no way said that it would not be valuable for us to have meeting places where different systems meet. That is why we are a strong supporter of the UN and also of the OSSE. That is why, Mr President, I thanked the delegation for its participation and for contributing to the dialogue that is important to conduct. There is no doubt about it. I do not really understand if anyone understood that I had any point of view on this. Rather, we must also see that there are those who want to use our systems to use them for other purposes. In this case, it is Russia that has an interest in keeping certain conflicts going and some wounds open and who chooses to use systems in a way that benefits their cause. It is understandable but not acceptable from our point of view. There we must be careful and prepared to see if it happens. Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but touch Azerbaijan, because I fully agree. I think the report on the elections in Azerbaijan was a sad one. It was an abomination. I have said this in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. My position is that without Odihr, the Council of Europe will not be involved either. That is a fundamental position. However, not everyone thinks so, including the EPP, who has a certain interest in keeping this type of activity going. But there are others too.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-190	Mr President, I would like to There is certainly a great deal of similarity when it comes to the approach to international work. I thank Kerstin Lundgren for that. It is perhaps precisely because the similarity exists in the Swedish parliament that it sometimes sounds like we have no difference. But I would like to emphasise once again that it is important, in the international forums wherever we are, to keep the Swedish compass clear and stand up for democracy. At the OSCE summer meeting, which will soon be held – last time it was in Helsinki, because it is 2015 that we are debating now – we should, for example, talk about what is happening in Ukraine as the Russian aggression, not a crisis. It is not a crisis, but a country has invaded its neighbour. So we shall continue to debate in order to move forward.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-193	Mr President, I would like to Of this we are united. It is important to be clear, and it is important not to allow Russia to redefine Ukraine as they wish. War is in progress, and the Russian presence is clear. This is to be pointed out. There is no doubt that Russia today has borders that are not internationally recognised. They have attacked another country by military force and in violation of their obligations, and this is something that is not tolerated or accepted. The sanctions must remain until Russia leaves Ukraine.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-195	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report. We are now going to debate a report on the report by the Swedish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I have been part of the Swedish delegation but have now dropped out as I will soon have children, as you will all see. 2015 has been an eventful year in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In January, the Assembly approved Resolution 2091 and recommendations to the Council of Ministers on travelling combatants in Syria and Iraq. The recommendations call on Member States to establish instruments to facilitate the expulsion of convicted terrorists. This addition to the recommendations was initiated by the Swedish Democrats and received support in the Parliamentary Assembly by a large majority. Although foreign citizens in Sweden would be convicted of participation in terror and genocide, there is a risk that the perpetrators cannot be expelled because Sweden upholds the principle of non-refoulment, that is, we do not expel people to countries where they may be subjected to torture or insulting treatment. We support this because it is a sound principle laid down in the European Convention. At the same time, we in the Swedish Democrats cannot allow Sweden's welfare state to be exploited by IS terrorists who are actively working to level it with the ground. There's a case in the UK for one person, Abu Qatada. There the perpetrator claimed that the expulsion to Jordan could not be carried out because he would be subjected to torture in the home country prison and that torture is common there. Enforcement was nevertheless accepted by the European Court of Human Rights as Jordan issued a diplomatic guarantee on the humane treatment of the offender. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly rejected such guarantees because they were not considered credible, but in the case I mentioned, the guarantees were accepted because they were transparent and detailed, had been issued by the highest authority and there were mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring their compliance. This shows that enforcement is possible only if the guarantees are credible. To clarify, therefore, this is not about our intention to send someone back to a country where the person is at risk of torture or death penalty, on the contrary. A diplomatic guarantee shall mean that the receiving State must issue guarantees not to mistreat the person. This must be followed by careful checks and give Swedish diplomatic staff the opportunity to visit the person in custody and to check that the receiving state really keeps its promises. There is also another advantage to this. If the receiving state has to establish procedures to check that, for example, prison or judicial staff do not abuse prisoners, it may be a better condition in general in prisons in other countries. We therefore believe that Sweden should follow the Council of Europe's recommendation and initiate bi- or multilateral agreements to issue such credible guarantees of humane and fair treatment in prisons and trials so that we can expel convicted terrorists from Sweden. I find it strange that members of both the Social Democrats and the Moderates have voted in favour of this recommendation in the Council of Europe but then fail to support such an initiative at home in Sweden. The issue is not easy to solve, but not even to try, I think, shows a lack of political will to take responsibility for security in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In January 2016, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe endorsed the same resolution on travel for combatants in Syria and Iraq, which also stated that the terrorist group IS/ Daish's terrorist campaign against minorities in Syria and Iraq would be considered genocide. It calls on Member States to act on the basis that there is a genocide going on. Similar declarations have come from the European Parliament and the US Senate. As is well known, the issue has already been raised in Parliament in a previous report, as unfortunately it was only the Christian Democrats, Liberals and the Swedish Democrats who voted to recognise IS/ Daish's act as a genocide. Before I knew that the issue would be raised in that report, I wrote the motion on the basis of the Council of Europe resolution. It is most regrettable and shameful that neither in the previous report nor in this report does Parliament want to recognise the systematic persecution of ethnic and religious minorities in Syria and Iraq by IS as genocide. The Terror Organization has kidnapped hundreds of Christian Assyrians and forced them to live under terrible oppression in their own-handedly proclaimed caliphate. The aim of their campaign of terror is to leave behind not only a human but also a cultural desert. The aim is to destroy the history of the Christian and Yazidite minorities, their religious identity and all that these groups have left of their almost 2000-year cultural heritage. After the previous debate on the subject, it emerged that the Left Party really wanted to recognise this as genocide, but the initiative came from the wrong people – from motions by the Christian Democrats and Liberals supported by the Swedish Democrats. How can it be more important to distance yourself from the sender of a motion than to show support for a population that is being exterminated? It's out of my mind. Everyone in the Swedish delegation has voted in favour of the resolution, which states that we should act on the basis that there is a genocide going on. Yet they do not want to recognise this in the Swedish Parliament, and I wonder why. Mr President, I would like to In our exercise and reservation, we also address problems of persecution of Christians in Europe as well. This has been mentioned in a resolution in the Council of Europe. Of course, the situation in Sweden and Europe for Christians is far better than in many other parts of the world. We are not facing genocide here. Still, it is worrying that there have been a large number of attacks on churches and that there is a new trend of hate crimes against Christians. According to surveys, such hate crimes increased by 75 per cent in 2014. This is a worrying development, which must be taken seriously. A new problem, which is serious and tragic, is that many times Christian asylum seekers have to flee asylum homes because they are threatened. We could read an article earlier this week about a family that had to flee an asylum home. With regard to the resolution, which addresses the problem and calls on the Member States to address it, we would like the Parliament to announce to the government that it is taking seriously the problem of the increased hate crimes against Christians in Sweden.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-210	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing the Foreign Affairs Committee's report 13 The Council of Europe. These include the annual report from the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and some requests for exercise. I will focus mainly on what is contained in the report by the delegation, but would nevertheless like to say that I agree with the assessments made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal and reject it. Of course, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the delegation and to commend it for its work well done. The eminent staff of the Parliament's international office also deserve a great deal of thanks. It would not work without their enthusiasm and professional help. It is worth knowing to the House that the Swedish delegation is very active in the work of the Assembly. We are at the top in terms of participation in the number of votes. We have many speeches and several members of the delegation have taken on important rapporteurs. Worth mentioning is Kerstin Lundgren's assignment as co-rapporteur on the review of Georgia and Eva-Lena Jansson's mission as rapporteur on the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. The year covered by the report was, in many ways, a sad year for Europe. The cruel war in Syria continued. As a result, we saw a large flow of refugees, creating a difficult political situation in Europe. In Ukraine, with one of Russia annexed Crimea and fighting in the eastern part of the country, the situation remained unstable and unsolved. Here it is worth pointing out that the Assembly continues to have sanctions in place against the Russian delegation following the annexation of Crimea. In Paris, the newspaper Charlie Hebdo, a Jewish school and a Jewish grocery store were attacked in cruel acts of terror. Later in the year, Paris once again suffered in the cruelest way possible when, in November, six coordinated acts were carried out in various places in the city. 130 people died because they lived their lives. The values and life-affirming views of man manifested by the Human Rights Convention are challenged by events such as those I have mentioned. But they are also politically challenged. It is clear that the wave of nationalism and renewed support for more authoritarian political leadership that pushes Europe forward has the effect, among other things, of increasingly calling into question individual, indivisible and inviolable rights. Some Member States have introduced or are discussing the introduction of a form of national review of the judgments of the Strasbourg Court. In other states, we see governments openly pushing for legislation that runs counter to the principles of free justice. We see the free press being hunted and sometimes silenced. With such a bleak development in Europe, I can only be pleased when, in its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs nevertheless notes that the work carried out by the Swedish delegation is in line with the core values of the Council of Europe and that this work should continue. However, in order not to paint a completely dark picture of the situation, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight some of the positive steps forward that have been taken during the year. For the Swedish delegation, cooperation and interaction with the other Nordic delegations remain important. The Nordic and Baltic delegations have recently tried to deepen their cooperation and create greater proximity to each other. This is done on the basis that we see that all eight states have many common values regarding democracy and human rights. It also happens because, in matters where we have common interests, better coordination and cooperation are needed in order to achieve our objectives. Since I am a member of the Council of Europe's Committee on Gender Equality and Non-Discrimination, and I am a general rapporteur on LGBT issues, I would also like to highlight the report on discrimination against trans-nationals in Europe. As a document, the report is unique as it is the first time such a thing has been adopted within an international cooperation organisation such as the Council of Europe. It is also unique because the congregation takes such a strong stand for people's right to self - identification when it comes to a person's gender. Several countries in Europe, including Malta and Denmark, have taken steps in this direction. I hope that Sweden will soon be able to follow suit. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the delegation for its good work and to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-221	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I took the recommendation to the Council of Ministers to issue agreements with diplomatic guarantees for the expulsion of persons without being subjected to torture and the death penalty. Jonas Gunnarsson voted in favour of this recommendation in the Council of Europe but still does not want to support an announcement to the government to try to issue such agreements here in Sweden. I would like to ask how it is that you support one thing in the Council of Europe but then do not want to take the matter forward at home. I'd like to understand it a little better.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-224	Mr President, I would like to I think it is clear in the text of the report that this is problematic. We learn new things all the time. If you read what actually says here and what the committee says, it is no wonder that you want to think about it for a while.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-225	Mr President, I would like to I don't deny that the question is difficult, but before you find out, you have to try. It is stated in the recommendation, which is voted for by the Social Democrats, that it invites the Member States to work towards developing agreements with third countries to ensure that the recipient states can be expelled without being subjected to torture or the death penalty. Jonas Gunnarsson should have known already then that it is of course not a simple question, but this is about sending an announcement to the government to look at the issue and investigate it to see if this is possible. We're not even getting there right now. This stays here in Parliament. There will be no announcement to the government to proceed with the matter. Enough about that. I would also like to ask about the recognition of genocide, which we have debated earlier here in Parliament. The Social Democrats have also voted in favour of a resolution defining IS acts as genocide and calling on states to act on the basis that it is a genocide. Then I would like to ask again why the Social Democrats want to support such a resolution in the Council of Europe but do not recognise it as a genocide here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-229	Mr President, I would like to The Parliamentary Assembly has a slightly different task from that of the Swedish Parliament. The Parliamentary Assembly is not a legislative assembly as the Riksdag is. Our main task here is to make law. The Parliamentary Assembly makes a number of statements. Among other things, it condemns terrible acts in IS-controlled areas. It is a genocide; it goes without saying. The question is whether it is for Parliament to act as a judge in this way. I'm not sure about that. I think that what the Committee on Foreign Affairs writes in its report on this is clear. We have also had debates on this in the past. I have to say that I am a little surprised when I read the reservation from the Swedish Democrats. Questions are raised which, in many respects, do not concern the very activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You try to score cheap political points, and you mess it up in general, I think. On the question of persecution of Christians, the Swedish Democrats choose to pick out a small group of all the asylum seekers who come here and defend it when it is in fact the Swedish Democrats themselves who stand for incitement and hatred towards other people. It will be very false and difficult for me to understand.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-234	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Per Bolund, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister Ibrahim Baylan and Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-236	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Foreign Minister Wallström. With a deteriorating and troubled world situation, not least in our own immediate region of the Baltic Sea, we are facing major challenges together in Europe and across the Atlantic. NATO will be bringing together Member States and partner countries for a summit in Warsaw in about four weeks' time. NATO has major issues to consider in order to improve security, not least in Europe. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how the government views the summit. What is the most important issue on the agenda for the Swedish Government? Who will be taking part in this summit in Warsaw?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-239	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the European Council in June and since the NATO Summit in July are two security policy pillars in the future. The government is working to invite partner countries to the NATO summit in Warsaw to discuss security policy challenges in a wider circle. Sweden is particularly interested in dialogue on developments around the Baltic Sea and other security policy issues, such as the fight against Daish and the situation in Syria and Iraq. We would like to be present when discussing Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. Both the Secretary of Defense and the undersigned will be present.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-241	Mr President, I would like to I also believe that a great deal of the issues listed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be dealt with. I would like answers to which question the government is hoping to have the most impact on or which feels most important where Sweden should still have a seat at the table. Wouldn't it be good if the Prime Minister could also go to Warsaw?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-242	Mr President, I would like to It is above all the situation around the Baltic Sea that is the most burning issue for us and that affects our own security policy situation. I can imagine that NATO is a little concerned about what is happening, not least in the United States, and what is happening in Turkey. I'm sure there'll be a lot of exciting discussions at the edge of the conversation at the table. What is going on in Russia and Ukraine and around the Baltic Sea is what will be discussed during the meeting. That is also where we have the greatest interests.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-244	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Per Bolund. Many companies use telephone sales as a way to reach new customers, which they also describe as an effective method. However, many consumers feel that there are major problems with rogue operators. It is difficult to perceive what agreement you have entered into over the phone, and many feel cheated. The Swedish Consumer Agency states that there are still many complaints about rogue telephone sales, and the problems for consumers are increasing. The investigation Strengthening consumer protection in telephone sales is complete and has been referred to. For example, it proposes a written requirement as a measure to strengthen consumer protection.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-248	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johanna Haraldsson, for an important question! We are in a new world when it comes to marketing. Many of us consumers notice that we are sometimes reached by aggressive marketing methods. Sometimes it may seem intrusive to our everyday lives. It has happened to many of us that you have been called in a situation when you don't think it suits you at all. That is why this study is important and has presented important analyses of how the situation can be improved. It's about improving the Nix register – the register you can register for if you want to avoid that kind of advertising – and to improve the situation in general. Written requests are a proposal that has been tabled and which we are now preparing at the Government Office. Many issues need to be weighed against each other, and we are not quite finished with that preparation yet, but we hope to be completed as soon as possible. We believe that this is an important issue for many consumers. The written requirement is an issue that is high on the agenda.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-252	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Per Bolund! It is a good initiative, and it is gratifying that the government really wants to get to grips with it. This is something that many consumers experience as a problem, and it is also true of many small companies that may not perceive themselves as companies in that way. They would also like greater protection. Are there measures also in this area that the government intends to take?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-254	Mr President, I would like to This is a problem for both individual consumers and traders. Sometimes that limit is not quite clear. There are probably cases where you act and answer on the phone as a private person although you are a trader in the sense of the law. The situation of the trader is primarily under the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry, but we are also working to improve the conditions by, for example, giving the Consumer Ombudsman strengthened sanctions to be able to act when it comes to misleading marketing, for example by telephone.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-257	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Secretary of State. Freedom of choice and diversity in the welfare sector mean increased quality, increased power for the individual and more employers to choose from for the employee. Banning profit-making companies would reduce the choice of alternatives, which would restrict the choice of the citizen. The profit-making operator has an incentive to develop quality and attract more customers. I see clear benefits in that the welfare is partly carried out by profit-making companies. We politicians should focus our efforts on creating effective care and school with as good quality as possible and making it go together. Instead, the focus seems to be on chasing the companies that manage to make a profit. Can the Minister promise that there will be no government regulations prohibiting profits in welfare, but that you will focus instead on solving the problems of the loss of welfare?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-261	Mr President, I would like to I can promise this Parliament and the public that the government will not put forward any proposals that are about banning profit. There is no investigation looking at that question. There is no party in the Swedish Parliament that is pushing this issue. The question we are working on is how to ensure that resources are used for what they are intended for. The issue we are working on is to ensure that surpluses are, as a general rule, reinvested in the business, used to hire more teachers and to get more people to work in health care. Taxpayers expect a regulatory framework that ensures order and order in their welfare. That is how we can both improve the quality of our activities and protect diversity and freedom of choice for our citizens. This requires the existence of rules that ensure the right use of resources. Those rules are not in place, and we are working to get that kind of legislation in place as soon as possible.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-264	Mr President, I would like to For me, it's very strange to focus on those who make profits. Profits arise when you are efficient and when customers want to hire you. Half of the publicly operated health centres go at a loss. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Civil Affairs if he thinks it is a responsible way of doing business, that it does not focus on what is the big problem, that is, a lot of welfare activities are going at a loss.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-266	Mr President, I would like to We must work on the efficiency of the public sector. We must ensure that resources are used as efficiently as possible and also for what they are intended for. Today we have a framework that enables private welfare providers to use tax money to go to school and use it for other things: profit distribution, investment in tax havens. The money is even used for investments in other countries. The resources shall be used for the purposes for which they are intended. It also requires new rules, and that is exactly what the government is working on.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-269	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Mr Baylan, Minister for Energy. It is about the planned construction of a new 400-kilovoltsledning in Småland and Blekinge. We have discussed this before. Last autumn, the Minister himself was present in Småland and was confronted with the issue. It was then perceived that the Government reacted positively to the demands made to use more ground-saving and gentle technology in the construction of high-voltage lines in Sweden. However, the hope of a new and better order is dashed as the same minister is involved in rejecting people's demands for a review of the construction of the pipeline. It is now perceived that it is free for the Swedish power network to continue the design and implementation of the pipeline building according to old and very questionable methods. My question to the Government is therefore: Has the Government taken or does he intend to take any initiatives in order to steer the Swedish power grid towards using more modern and much more low-ground technology in the construction of power lines?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-273	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the question! After all, we have debated and discussed this in this House on several occasions. The foundation is, of course, that Swedish power networks see the need – and I think Anders Åkesson also shares that view – for a reinforcement of the network so that we do not end up in situations where bottlenecks in the system cause us to have power cuts. I do not think anyone, whether citizens or politicians, would want that. The scheme is that it is Swedish power networks that, according to the regulations, design and develop proposals for projects, and it is the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate that provides a concession. The prerequisites are that the project should be, among other things, efficient and cost-effective. If not, at a later stage the government will take a position on this. But how this is to be done is clearly regulated. The Rules are decided by the Riksdag, and this is the order that will continue to apply.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-277	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. No one questions the need for a robust building of society, the Government. However, it questions the methods used by parts of the state's commercial activities and the way in which there is no dialogue, rather the opposite of dialogue with those concerned. The consultation process is being conducted in a strange way. It is known that there are techniques and methods of execution. What impression did the Minister get from his visit to Småland last autumn when the promises then perceived were made?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-279	Mr President, I would like to I have full respect and understanding that this raises concern, because it restricts the individual when it comes to drawing up an infrastructure of this type. Of course, there is always a discussion about how this is to be used. But it is important to know that this is very clearly regulated. These were the same rules that applied during the period of the previous government. That is the order that we have, and we should also stick to it. This requires both efficiency and cost-effectiveness. That is the order that we shall continue to follow.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-282	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. What does a PKK terrorist look like? I thought I saw a picture of one this morning when I was on my way home from my son's graduation. My son is seven years old, and he was very happy this morning because his school term was finally over. On the way from there I opened the phone, and then there came up a picture of an even old boy, although he was Kurdish. He was dead. The day before yesterday, the President of Turkey was pleased to say that 7 600 Kurds had now been killed - I'm sorry, terrorists. For example, the little dead, shot to death, in the picture. No matter how you look at the PKK as an organisation, you have to be able to see what Erdo 中an is doing. It's not just about eradicating terrorism. The part of Kurdistan in Turkey is under attack of a nationalistic nature, and it is innocent Kurdish women, men and children who die. The Foreign Minister and the Government are probably seeing this too, so my question is: why is it so far away from condemning what Turkey is doing to the Kurds?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-288	Mr President, I would like to What is happening in the violent development of south-east Turkey is extremely regrettable. It is also the subject of discussion both in the EU and in bilateral contacts. Of course, Turkey has the right to self-defence, but, as always, efforts must be made to protect civilians. Both Sweden and the EU have stated that it is important to lay down the weapons and to resume the peace talks. We are influencing developments in Turkey, above all, through the EU's proximity, through our bilateral contacts and through the statements we make. We are driving the accession process to take concrete steps forward. We have, of course, met with Kurdish leaders, and we are also speaking about the protection of Kurds. It is extremely important to ensure that civilians are not affected so that the war does not become a war against the Kurds.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-292	Mr President, I would like to In addiction, you are often inclined to look between your fingers or accept things that you would otherwise never have accepted. Are we so dependent on a good relationship with the Turkish state that we do not want to trample it on its toes? A condemnation on the part of Sweden would definitely make it a rather frosty atmosphere, but it is worth it. There are around 100,000 Swedish Kurds in Sweden, and they deserve to know why Sweden does not react harder to what happens to their families. Can you give them an answer, Margot Wallström?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-295	Mr President, I would like to As I have said, we have, of course, condemned all attacks on Kurds. That is precisely the message that I presented here and which we repeat through the European Union and in all our bilateral contacts. I myself have met Mr Demirta, and I have repeatedly talked about how important it is not to make this a war against the Kurds. Turkey is, of course, entitled to self-defence against terrorists, but it must not be done in such a way that civilians are affected. We cannot be clearer.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-297	Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats have for many years been pushing the question that those who have been misbehaved as children should receive the satisfaction that they deserve. Now the Remuneration Board will soon be closed, and all seven other parliamentary parties will be behind it. It is a dark financial statement that the Remuneration Board shows up in the final stages of its operations. The grant rate for applications for reimbursement is only 46 %. It is very low in an international perspective. Göran Johansson, who led the Vanvårdsutningen, is also strongly critical of the fact that there are so few people who have been granted compensation. Against this background, I would like to ask Minister Per Bolund a question. Of the approximately billion set aside to replace the mistreated, only half have been used. Has the government deliberately wanted to save money by imposing such high standards of proof on those who have been mistreated? Was that originally what was sought when they intended to compensate those who were misbehaved as children?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-300	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Östberg, for an important question! These, of course, are people who in many cases have suffered a great deal. We have every reason to take on board all the knowledge and information, not least in order to be able to take action to ensure that current and future generations do not suffer the same fate. Of course we have set aside this money in order for it to be used, that is the very foundation. I am pleased that there has been such a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on this issue. We have been able to reach broad agreement in the policy of providing opportunities to obtain compensation. At the same time, it is important that we stick to principles that it should be a high level of legal certainty. You should be able to know in which cases you can get money and in which cases you can't. It should not be felt that something happens at random, but there should be solid work behind it. I also think it is important to see that we need to address the problems that exist in our society today. In this respect, I believe that the 10 billion in welfare spending set aside by the government will increase the quality of care for vulnerable children here and now, today.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-304	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We are not satisfied that so few of those who have been mistreated as children have received compensation. We have therefore called for an independent committee to review all decisions given by the Remuneration Board, with an extra focus on the decisions that have led to rejections. Is the government open to reopening this issue and allowing an independent committee to review the decisions given?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-306	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous speech, the overall response of a broad group in Parliament is of course that we should have a system for this, and that we have set aside money because it is a clear sign that we see this as a problem. We need to find ways to meet the people who have been in trouble during their upbringing when society simply has not shouldered its responsibilities. Of course, we continue to follow the issue, and if we see that there are problems, we are also prepared to take steps to address them. I think that also applies to a broad association in Parliament.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-309	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. One issue that is becoming increasingly topical is the question of municipalities and the forthcoming municipal structural investigation. The Government has made it clear that this does not have to mean municipal mergers but that other solutions for municipalities can better respond to the challenges that exist. Nevertheless, it is of course important to also have a discussion about what the municipalities can look like. A lot has happened since the municipal reform in the 1970s. Today, more and more people are below the then limits of the welfare mission. In other municipalities it is the opposite – municipalities have grown together, and there is no naturally visible border. I have two questions. The first is simple: does the Government think this is an important debate to be held? The second question is: What are the other solutions that the Government thinks might be relevant to this investigation?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-312	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for a very interesting question! The government stands up for and defends the decentralised welfare model, where decisions should be made close to the people in municipalities and regions. This requires that municipalities and regions have the right conditions. We were one of the first countries in the Western world to carry out a major municipal reform, precisely with a view to decentralising welfare. We also need to constantly work to modernise the structure of the public sector in order to give municipalities the best possible conditions. Action is needed. It can be about expanding the opportunities for collaboration. This may involve the division of tasks between the municipality, region and state. This could involve the support of state authorities and the impact of supervision. Against this background, we see a need to launch a parliamentary inquiry during this year which looks at the issues relating to the municipal structure, preferably in dialogue with the parliamentary parties.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. It is, of course, important not to pre-empt the investigation, and we must be restrictive in making changes for the local government sector, regardless of the question. But this is an issue that we still need to discuss in different contexts – not least the perspective of municipal self-government, which is extremely important. My supplementary question is: Does the Government mean that the proposals that will strengthen the possibility of municipal self-government? Is that the entrance?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-317	Mr President, I would like to We have strong protection for local self-government, but this protection must be constantly defended and developed. This means that municipalities must be given the right conditions to take care of the various welfare tasks. This requires better cooperation between municipalities. There are currently legal obstacles to such cooperation. Those obstacles must be removed. We also need to look at how government governance affects the local government sector, and we have started this work with the confidence reform.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-319	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to agree with the Foreign Minister's condemnation of the terrible act of terror in Tel Aviv yesterday. Then I would like to ask about another terror, that of Hizbollah. In recent years, Hizbullah has devoted himself to moving weapons from sparsely populated areas to densely populated areas. In small villages and small towns, schools, hospitals and other places where there are civilians, they have their weapons depots and rocket ramps. The aim is, of course, very cynical. If there's a new conflict with Israel, and Israel's shooting back at these rockets, there's a very big risk that you'll meet civilians, schools, hospitals and so on. Are you aware of this, Minister of Foreign Affairs? Have you acted, or are you going to act, to draw attention to this internationally and condemn it internationally?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-323	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we reject all acts of terrorism and acts of terrorism. The basic idea is that they should be directed at innocent civilians, preferably in places where you live in everyday life, and cause the greatest possible harm. It is important that we, as individual countries and as ministers, react and that the world does. It is important that we act through both the European Union and the United Nations, as well as all the other bodies in which we are active, and we will continue to do so in order to draw attention to these terrorist acts as well.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-324	Mr President, I would like to In the case of Hizbollah, it is not yet a matter of acts of terror. They have done some, but it is above all the construction and transfer of weapons into densely populated areas that I ask about. Hizbollah has a very strong military. It has over 100,000 rockets and missiles with both good dot security and great destruction strength. The Secretary of State! Are you going to act against this internationally? Are you going to highlight internationally what Hizbollah is doing now?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-326	Mr President, I would like to Thanks to our foreign authorities, we gain good control and insight into what is happening around the world. They report to us at the State Department, and we take the necessary steps. It may be a matter of working in many different ways to ensure that we keep an eye on a certain development. We are also acting through our diplomatic and political channels, and we will continue to do so.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-328	Mr President, I would like to I put my question to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. As we heard in a previous reply here, it is not said that one is in favour of a ban on profits in welfare. Now it's called the right use of resources. It's new words, but it's the same effect, and it's the worst. This is about seeing what you create for the conditions for the companies that exist in healthcare, school and care and that deliver quality. If they don't, people don't choose to go back to them. The same would happen if the same rules or restrictions were applied to construction and construction or medicinal products. A lot of people would disappear from there if they were not able to run businesses to the full. What's a little scary is that you try to file the arguments but the likes of the curse are still in the same thing. Does the Government want many companies that deliver good quality to end in this business?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-333	Mr President, I would like to We have a duty to the citizens to have legislation that ensures that the resources are used for what they are intended for in welfare. It's our tax money we're talking about. But that legislation does not exist. When the City of Stockholm wanted to increase funding for schools in order to raise teachers' salaries, an independent school could say: No, we do not want to use this to raise teachers' salaries, we want to use it to establish ourselves elsewhere. And so you could move the money, the municipal money, the taxpayers' money, which would go to education, and at worst use it for profit distribution, to something completely different from the purpose. We can't have that. We need to have order in our welfare. That requires the taxpayers of us. Municipal self-government also requires that municipalities have influence. The Center movement has always stood up for municipal self-government and decentralised welfare. Then municipalities must also have the right tools, so that they can interact with private operators based on the right conditions. All models have their flaws. We have made some major changes since the 1990s in this area, and it is clear that there are shortcomings in the legislation. Then we have to fix them. We must let go of ideological duplicators and think of the obligation we have towards the citizens.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-338	Mr President, I would like to It was a good conclusion, and I had to send it back. As I see it, within the labour movement there has been an effort to create good conditions for the children of the working class and all other children in terms of care and education and to be able to make a journey. The challenges we face in healthcare, care and education require that many more people are involved in thinking new and thinking outside the box. If one had chosen to focus on quality instead of the company form, one would have ended up more right. It's unfortunate from the start.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-340	Mr President, I would like to We need to focus on quality, and so do we. We also have to let the professionals be pros. We must dare to show a greater degree of trust in the professions of the public sector. That is why it is so important that the government has initiated the confidence reform based on the knowledge and experience of the professions in the various welfare activities. But rules are also needed. It is terrible that Sweden is used as an example of horror in the Norwegian debate by the Norwegian right, by the Danish right and by the British right. We will have order in Swedish school. It is compatible with freedom of choice and diversity, and it must be compatible with freedom of choice and diversity.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-343	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. I raise the issue of the government's annual reports on human rights in specific countries. In previous years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has always published annual reports on human rights in individual countries. There has been no report from the current Social Democratic Red-Green Government since 2014. Why not? When can there be new reports? I ask the question because in times when human rights are being called into question in more and more places, it is important that Sweden stands up for them. It is also the case that when the government does not publish reports, the Riksdag, as well as interest organisations, will be referred to other sources. It can't be like that. It is important that the Swedish Government presents documents.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-346	Mr President, I would like to That is absolutely correct. We have therefore changed the whole policy and the way in which we deal with the issue of human rights. We have appointed an ambassador for human rights. We will write a letter to Parliament this summer. That's exactly where we'll tell you how to deal with it. We intend to make reports that are not just for one region at a time, something that made them old quickly. We are going to do it for all regions around the world, and we are going to do it so that we cover both democracy and human rights and the rule of law. That's why we need to focus the entire department on this job, and we're doing that right now. We will shortly bring the letter to Parliament, and we will then begin work on reports. We'll redo the work and make it wider and deeper. We show in every way that it is one of our cornerstones in foreign policy.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-349	Mr President, I would like to So far, everything sounds good. But if the question is really a cornerstone of the government, why have we not been informed about what development should look like? Why has not a single report been presented? It is not reasonable that, when human rights are truly babbling around the world, there will be no documents from the Swedish Government. It is now that the Swedish values are needed. They have been needed throughout 2015 and half in 2014. That is what I am calling for. When's something going on?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-351	Mr President, I would like to Ever since we took office, we have told you that we are going to shift the work on the human rights issues. Only yesterday I was here in Parliament and took part in a debate on this very subject. I have answered interpellations and questions, and we have said that in the Declaration of Government and the Declaration of Foreign Affairs. I don't know how many times I have to say it. We do not have the resources to run several different processes in parallel and simultaneously. Let's reschedule the work. This summer you will receive a letter explaining this. We are working hard to report on the human rights situation around the world.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-354	Mr President, I would like to My question is also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In recent times we have again been struck by terrible images and news of mass death in the Mediterranean. Over 10 000 people fleeing war, misery and poverty have drowned in Mediterranean waters since 2014, and this year alone it is over 3 000. The situation is obviously completely untenable. Sweden itself, of course, cannot solve the refugee crisis, nor is it just a European concern but a global responsibility. It is therefore gratifying that the US government announced on Friday that Prime Minister Löfve and Sweden will be co-organising the refugee summit on global responsibility for refugees to be held in New York in September. Sweden has been invited as a co-organizer together with a bunch of other countries. I wonder what kind of perspective Sweden might contribute.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-357	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, an honour that we have been invited. This is because no single OECD country has ever in history received as many refugees as Sweden has made per capita. It means a huge responsibility and, above all, that we should show that we can do it. It is not without hard work and great challenges, but we will do so. The Refugee Summit aims to increase the international response to the major global refugee crisis by sharing responsibility globally in a completely different way than hitherto. They want humanitarian funding to be increased by 30%, a doubling of the number of resettlement places and other legal routes, and an improved integration of refugees. That is the main objective and objectives of the summit. It focuses on making very concrete commitments and commitments. We'll be happy to contribute that.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Indeed, the refugee crisis is not over. Even if fewer asylum seekers come to Sweden's coast and border, the issue is still burning acutely. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Government what Sweden can do to reduce the risk of the route crossing Libya – now that it is closed over Turkey – which is harvesting so many deaths and which is much more dangerous than the Turkish route and what we are doing to put pressure on other countries to ensure that people do not die the way they do now.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-361	Mr President, I would like to Above all, we operate through the European Union. We are working on several tracks at the same time to find a political solution in Libya, which is a country with great political confusion. It is also important to stop smuggling networks but also to ensure that more EU countries share responsibility. That is the most important thing we can do right now. We must ensure that we save people and that we use Frontex and other efforts in a way that helps innocent civilians on their way in boats across the Mediterranean.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-363	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. I am an old teacher, so I will not cave down too deep in the details because I know it may not be Per Bolund's special area. I'm going to talk about bill 184, which is about 5% new arrivals being allowed to take priority in the line to the free schools. It is clear from several points of view in the proposal: the proposal aims to create the conditions for better use of the overall resources of the school system. I feel that maybe it's a little lie that's been able to sneak in. Students pushed out of line will cost as much regardless of which school they attend. Should it now be that there is no queue for free schools, the new arrivals go ahead. I would like to know how you think about making better use of the overall resources of the school system.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-367	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stefan Jakobsson, for an urgent question. We have brought a great many people to our country who have fled from war and persecution and which we have a responsibility to provide security in our country but also to give the best possible start when they come here. This applies not least to children, which in the end is a fairly large resource for Sweden. If we give the children who come here a good schooling and a good education, they are also a great resource for our country. We believe that it is important for all schools to be able to make their contribution. We know that many municipal schools have done a fantastic, heroic job of establishing places. But we also think the free schools can be part of it. Many free schools also want to do more, but so far legislation has been an obstacle to this. Nor do we believe that it is a closed circuit and that there are only a certain number of places. If there are more students, you can expand in your business, and so can you in free schools. With the new regulatory framework in place, it will be possible to give space to asylum seekers and people who come to our country as well as to offer space to those who have been in line for a long time. That's the ambition.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-371	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Per Bolund, Minister! On this issue, we may not think quite the same, but it depends on the expertise that I have from the real world. But on to the next question. I never thought I'd stand and blame the government for running an elite policy, but I have to question how you've thought about it here. In fact, if you have arrived in Sweden in the last two years, these rules will apply. This also applies to the children of returning Swedish diplomats. This means that diplomatic children who have resided abroad and come back to Sweden can choose freely which free school they want to enter. What do you think here?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-374	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that, as far as possible, we try to have an equal treatment principle in Swedish legislation and rules. We know that there is a great challenge now. A lot of people have come to our country. One can always highlight special cases that stand out, but the big challenge we face is to provide good opportunities for all the children who have now come here and need to have a good schooling. It is above all asylum seekers where the family has been forced to flee from war and oppression. I don't see a problem with if there were any children from other families coming along.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-377	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Sweden has a feminist government that wants to promote gender equality in all areas. In the energy industry, there is still a great deal to work with in terms of equality between men and women. Looking at gender equality on the boards of energy companies, only 18 per cent of energy companies reached up to 40 per cent women on the board in 2015. If you look at applications and awarded research grants, you can see that men get between 70 and 80 percent of the cake while women get the rest. You can also see that women and men work in different parts of the industry. In addition, attitudes to different types of energy are different between women and men in Sweden. Women, for example, are far more positive than men to wind and solar power.
i-671vSDPcCuQsNb8tzNf5zv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for an urgent question! This is essentially not just a question of justice but also a strategic issue for the energy sector. The government has chosen to highlight this issue in dialogue with the industry, but also by organising hearings and seminars where, which is gratifying, we have had a strong participation from the industry and energy companies. The basis, of course, is that we believe that it is better to have a more equal composition, not least in the energy sector – for several reasons. We know that companies that are more equal are also more profitable. We know it will be a better energy industry. Now that we are in a situation where unemployment in Sweden is falling very quickly, I think it is also about being able to recruit the best, and in that perspective gender equality becomes a competence and strategy issue for the energy industry. I hope to continue pursuing these issues together with the energy industry.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-386	Mr President, I would like to I choose to follow up on what I was on – that the SOM studies can see that the attitudes of women and men in terms of different types of energy differ. Men are generally more positive about nuclear power, while women are more positive about wind and solar power. Does the Government believe that the energy debate would look different if we had greater equality in this area?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-388	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it's hard to speculate. But we know that today the energy industry is undergoing quite a major structural change, not only in Sweden but all over the world, and I think that the possibilities for managing structural changes will be better if you have more mixed groups in terms of both gender equality and diversity. It is against this background that the government has chosen to highlight this discussion. I am pleased that there is involvement in the energy sector. You see this flaw and you're ready to fix it.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-391	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. I would like to begin by agreeing with what Mathias Sundin said and commending the Foreign Minister for her condemnation of the terrorist act that took place yesterday in Tel Aviv. But the supplementary question must reasonably be when the government intends to act vigorously against the Palestinian Authority. What we are now looking at is being played in Israel, after all, is merely an outflow of what the Palestinian Authority is constantly expressing. You excuse what's happening now. You name primary schools after suicide bombers. There are television programmes aimed at children that encourage the use of violence. When is the government prepared to seriously mark against the Palestinian Authority by reviewing the 11⁄2 billion in aid that the Swedish Government unconditionally gives to the Palestinian Authority?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-395	Mr President, I would like to If I understand correctly, Hamas has taken on the act in Tel Aviv, and Hamas is a terrorist-listed organisation with which we have no contact whatsoever. We reject all acts of terrorism of this kind, all violence and all that encourages acts of violence. That's not the way forward. We believe in a two-state solution. That was also one of the reasons why we recognised Palestine. We encourage both parties to return to peace negotiations. We believe this is the way forward with regard to the situation in the Middle East. Otherwise, we must continue to distance ourselves very strongly from terrorist acts.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-397	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is very good that the Foreign Minister has condemned this individual action. The fact remains, however, that the Palestinian Authority bears a responsibility for encouraging the recent acts of terrorism. When is Margot Wallström prepared to think about the aid that Sweden is giving to a leader who is undemocratically elected and who has been out-of-court longer than Pinochet?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-399	Mr President, I would like to Again, Hamas has taken on this act. The Palestinian Authority has nothing to do with that. Our assistance and our assistance to the Palestinian Authority – it's a very important dialogue we pursue – goes through Pegasus, which is an EU system. That is also how the funds are paid. The rest is a political dialogue with Palestine and the Palestinian Authority on the need to reform and continue work so that hopefully one day we can come to a two-state solution.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-402	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Per Bolund. Since 2014, the ambulatory market and market trade has also been covered by the Cash Register Act, which requires the purchase to be registered on-site in the functioning cash register and that the customer can be offered a receipt. The problem is that these two requirements are hitting the operations of Karl-Tövåsen's living farmhouse & dairy farmhouse in Rättvik, which has neither electricity nor internet coverage, and against the ambulatory market and market trade as there are no simple portable IP44-rated cash registers available for outdoor use.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-405	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, for an important question! It is important to remember the history of the reform of cash registers. We have, of course, had some problems with the fact that tax payments from certain sectors have sometimes been lacking and that there has been poor control of who has worked. It has led to risks that we both have a black or grey zone in the economy and difficulties in terms of work environment and the like. I would like to say that this regulation has had a great and positive effect. It may, of course, have consequences for certain parts of the market, which is not the main objective. But here I hope that new technologies can find solutions. I have visited fintech companies, financial technology companies, which develop solutions. For example, you can use a mobile phone to make simple card payments or simply to transfer money. I know there are areas where it is difficult to get coverage. It may be difficult there, but I hope that technical solutions will also come there.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-408	Mr President, I would like to This issue has ended up in an element 22 situation, where the Cash Register Act and the Electricity Safety Act are in conflict with each other. Cash payments dominate market sales to 90 per cent. That's how much it's supposed to be. Although the Government points to technical possibilities here, I would like to say that 90% is quite a lot. My question then is: will the government take the initiative to evaluate and review the operation of these special conditions?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-410	Mr President, I would like to We are a country that moves fairly quickly towards digital solutions in many different areas. It may be most obvious when it comes to the payment system, where we have come the longest in the world to switch to digital solutions. The proportion of cash is declining rapidly in our country. This leads to conversion problems in some cases. We are, of course, having a dialogue with our authorities on all aspects of the market and how we can make it easier for them to operate. We will do so in this case as well. The government's view of denouncing Daish's abuse as genocide
i-c69328df67c5c45f-413	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. We are still receiving reports that Daish is committing serious and systematic human rights violations in Syria and Iraq. The crimes are directed not least against the ethnic Christian minorities – Assyrians/Syrians and Chaldeans – and Yazidians. In the European Parliament, most Swedish parliamentary parties are behind calling Daish's abuse in Syria and Iraq a genocide. There are also other parliaments in Europe that have called this genocide. Against this background, I would therefore like to ask Minister Wallström: what is the government doing with regard to the situation of Christians in Iraq and Syria, and is the power of the government's action linked to the description of the crimes committed?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-416	Mr President, I would like to This is a very serious situation that we are currently seeing in Syria. The ad-regime does not live up to the commitments of the Security Council resolutions on cease-fire, humanitarian access to besieged areas and the cessation of violence against civilians, for example. These are terrible scenes that we look to be playing. The Syrian envoy Staffan de Mistura is still hoping to resume the peace talks, but this does not seem promising at the moment. Whatever we call what is going on, we must act. We in the international community must do everything we can. There is no hierarchy between the different concepts that we use to name what is happening at the moment. We always have a duty first and foremost to help those in need and to try to resolve this politically, because that is the only long-term solution.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-419	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. Not least the Christians – Assyrians/Syrians and Chaldeans – and Yazidians are particularly affected because they are not Muslims. They also have different ethnic backgrounds. Calling it genocide would further pressure the outside world to act. In Syria and Iraq they are now saying: Pay, convert to Islam or die! Other parliaments and the European Parliament have said that it is a genocide. It would be a better and stronger action to call it genocide here in Sweden too.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-421	Mr President, I would like to I have the greatest understanding of these demands. This is a very important debate that we have had on several occasions here in Parliament too. Only the other day, we discussed the use of the term. Politicians and governments often hesitate to use it because it is a legal term. It is important for the International Criminal Court to deal with these kinds of issues. However, whatever it is called or who should take responsibility for the legal process, we have a duty to act to protect all civilians. That is the most important thing right now in Syria and Iraq.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-424	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. As Minister of Civil Affairs, the Government is responsible for e-government in the country. The digitisation of the public sector as a whole is therefore important. There are good things about digitalisation, for example that paper handling for citizens and authorities can be reduced. It has environmental benefits. But at the same time it is based on the fact that there will be broadband expansion in the country, so there are many issues here. I would like to start by simply asking: what do the Government see as opportunities and possible difficulties in the work on the digitisation of public administration?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-427	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Björn Wiechel, for a very important question! I see great opportunities with the digitisation of the public sector. Sweden has really good conditions. The challenge is that we have a decentralised welfare model and a management model, which means that a large part of the activities are managed by the municipalities, and so we have state authorities that are independent. If the public sector is to be digitised, government governance is required. We have started this work. Now it will intensify. We have a very constructive dialogue with Sweden's municipalities and county councils. There is a plan for the digitisation of the state sector. I am convinced that, over the next two years, we will take important steps to facilitate government contacts for businesses and citizens and also to improve the efficiency of the public sector. We spend tens of billions on IT in the public sector. If we coordinate this, we will also be able to save the costs. Then we release resources to our core operations.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-431	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are undeniably great gains but possibly also one or another obstacle. I am thinking, then, about what action might be the priority to proceed with. Is there anything in particular that is important to intensify the work? How do you proceed with the question? Does the Government have anything he can share?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-432	Mr President, I would like to Let me give you a few examples. We can coordinate IT services in the state. Right now they were shot separately at the authorities. It's really a waste of resources. We can intensify efforts to coordinate the e-archiving of documents to be archived in the state. Then we can both streamline and digitise and also relocate operations from Stockholm to other parts of the country, which is one of the key priorities of the government's administrative policy. It is therefore possible to reconcile digitalisation with the relocation of public authorities.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-435	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Mrs Wallström. Al-Al-Jazira reported on Monday that at least 53 people were killed in the regime's aerial bombings in Aleppo in recent days. At the same time, rebels are reported to have attacked regime-controlled areas in Aleppo with multiple civilian casualties. It is estimated that some 300 000 civilians are trapped in rebel controlled areas in Aleppo. There is a shortage of food and water, and one is under the constant threat of aerial bombings and ground attacks. These people are stuck while the government has the ambition to take over the city, and Daish wants to introduce a caliphate.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-439	Mr President, I would like to That is to continue the discussion that we have already begun here. It is at the top of our agenda, both for the government in its foreign policy and in the EU and UN contexts. We feel a great deal of despair at the situation we are seeing at the moment, with negotiations that do not get anywhere with a deterioration of the situation on the ground. The parties do not live up to their commitments to allow humanitarian access and to help people with food and supplies. Sweden has so far contributed more than SEK 2.2 billion in humanitarian aid to the Syria crisis. We have a Syria strategy which is five years old and which we believe deals with many of these long-term problems. Right now it is a matter of getting all the parties involved to actually contribute constructively. Hopefully it will be possible to come back to the negotiating table so that Staffan de Mistura can continue his work. The outlook is quite dark at the moment, to be completely frank.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-442	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. The international community must not turn a blind eye to the people who are suffering or have lost their lives in the war-torn areas. According to Amnesty International, between February and April 2016, at least 83 civilians have been killed in attacks, including 30 children. I've got a thought. I do not know how the peace talks are going. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs have any information on the progress of the peace talks in Geneva?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-444	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I have to say that things are not going well. Right now, they're all down. Staffan de Mistura is an optimist and still hopes that the talks will resume in June as planned. Above all, however, this is a responsibility that must be taken on board, not least by the USA and Russia. The Asad regime must live up to the commitments and ensure that humanitarian access is guaranteed so that all these people who are currently besieged and lacking food, medicines and water can be helped.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-446	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. I would like to refer to the Eastern Partnership. This is extremely important, and we from the Swedish side have had a strong voice in relation to the Eastern Partnership. There are great expectations of Sweden. The debate is now highly topical as to whether we should grant visa-free status to countries that have achieved the requirements that we have made. One of the countries that considers themselves to have met the requirements is Georgia. But they have been placed in the same group as Ukraine and Turkey, and so they feel blocked. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what she is prepared to do to unlock this and give the opportunity both for the EU to stand up for its promises and for Georgia to have its visa-free status.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-450	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I spoke on the phone with my Georgian Minister for Foreign Affairs colleague and was able to announce that Sweden is in favour of visa waiver for Georgia. That is the position we have taken, and that is what we will drive. Furthermore, we will continue to push forward in the European Union, on the one hand, to keep the issue of the Eastern Partnership at the top of our agenda and, on the other hand, to be consistent. We have made a number of demands on Georgia. Once they have fulfilled them, they shall also know that they can obtain visa-free status. We will pursue this fully, and the Georgian Foreign Minister also expressed appreciation that Sweden is playing this driving role in the EU community in the Eastern Partnership.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-453	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for that answer. What is important, of course, is that we also get other EU countries to stand up for that position, because if the EU does not deliver when others have delivered on its promises, the EU risks losing credibility. That is why it is so vital that those who have not fulfilled promises should not be allowed to block those who have fulfilled their promises. Georgia is such a country.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-455	Mr President, I would like to I think it's so much fun that Kerstin Lundgren and I can agree completely. On this issue, we have exactly the same political stance, and Kerstin Lundgren can rest assured that we will continue to be a country that is pushing on in the European circle and insist that once we have made promises, when we have set conditions and the countries live up to them, then we shall also respond properly. This applies not least to visa freedom, not only for Georgia but also for the other countries.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-456	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Coordination and Energy Ibrahim Baylan. The government has taken clear and ambitious initiatives to strengthen Sweden's role as a research and innovation country. In the autumn, a specific research and innovation proposal will also be prepared in the field of energy. It is good if new steps can now be taken to emphasise knowledge and skills, technology and service development for sustainable energy development. It strengthens Swedish competitiveness and leads to jobs, continued development and growth. Recently I visited Kristianstad's municipality's own climate and energy preparation. There solar cells and wind power were raised that profiled future investments. No matter where in the country we are, we have natural resources such as sun, wind and forest as strong cards. My question to the Minister for Coordination is: from the research point of view, which energy area does he see the greatest potential to develop, and how do we best invest in these?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-460	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for a very important question! At the moment, an innovation and research proposal is being prepared, where, of course, energy is one of the most important. I do not want to anticipate it in any way, but it is clear that in a world where we clearly and concretely see a climate threat, a climate crisis, one of the major causes is precisely the use of fossil energy. In such a situation, it is clear that there is a great deal to be gained for a country like Sweden to continue pushing for a sustainable energy policy that helps to reduce this climate crisis. Therefore, when we present this proposal, we will of course continue to focus not only on the supply of electricity but also on all the other parts – energy efficiency, heating and cooling, smart grids and more – so that Sweden can not only solve challenges but also export them for jobs and growth in the country.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-464	Mr President, I would like to Research and innovation work is of great importance. I mentioned Kristianstad here, but whatever geographical location it is based on cooperation between society, business and academia. New industrialisation and export strategy are also mentioned. How does the Minister see coordinating all these individual and local initiatives with a national research and innovation effort?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-466	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that collaboration is a very important part of the Swedish model, that we try to work together not only locally and nationally but also with the private sector. I think we have a lot to gain from this particular area. I would like to see Sweden become a large-scale test lab for many of the sustainable solutions that we need to address the climate threat and ensure that people can live a good life without destroying the environment and climate.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-469	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ardalan Shekarabi regarding procurement and the Swedish model. We think it should be obvious that we should support serious entrepreneurs who set up on fair terms for the employees and increase security and protect the Swedish model. But that is not the case today, and the previous government was dragging its feet in trying to change this. Instead, procurement is now being used. We procure 600 billion a year, and some procurements are done in completely the wrong way so that people are exploited. In the cleaning industry, in the taxi industry and in transport companies, even people are exploited under slave-like conditions. How does Ardalan Shekarabi think that there are forces in society that want to maintain this system that people should be exploited and that collective agreements should not apply?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-473	Mr President, I would like to I'll admit I can't answer that particular question. It is difficult to speculate on why people want to defend a system where Swedish farmers have been discriminated against for years because contracting authorities have not made demands for Swedish animal welfare rules to be respected. It is very difficult to understand how people can defend that companies that give low wages to their employees should have priority to public contracts. But what I know, Mr President, is that this is over. Now we will defend the Swedish model. We will create order and order in the public market, and we will soon be presenting a proposal that makes it mandatory to impose conditions under Swedish collective agreements in connection with public procurement. We also make it possible for the authorities to make demands that farmers who are to deliver to the public sector also respect the minimum standards of Swedish legislation on animal welfare. We will stop discriminating against the serious companies operating in our country.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-476	Mr President, I would like to That's great! We will soon be discussing a motion for a resolution by the Committee on Finance, and we expect the bill to come shortly and that we can begin to deal with this major change so that we can finally get to grips with it. We think it has taken far too long with the old government, which did not want to take on these issues in the same way. There seem to be forces in society that want to preserve the old, who want people to be exploited and who do not want one to comply with collective agreements. What does Ardalan Shekarabi do to change that?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-478	Mr President, I would like to We have every opportunity in the world to change that. We will now make proposals. And then it will be the Swedish Parliament that decides. Should conditions be imposed under Swedish collective agreements, or should we continue to benefit companies that give bad conditions to their employees? Should we stop discriminating against Swedish farmers, or should we continue to benefit foreign farmers? These are questions that will be decided here, in this House, by the Swedish Parliament. Those legislative proposals will have an impact on reality as of 1 January 2017. It is therefore important to vote correctly.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-480	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mrs Wallström my question. In international collaborations, we in the Nordic countries have much to gain by coordinating ourselves. Then we'll have a stronger voice. But even in relations between the Nordic countries, we have a lot to gain from cooperation. One example is the removal of border barriers in border regions, in order to facilitate work, study and family formation across borders. We've got a lot of cross-border commuters. It can be about our social security policies, about trying to coordinate them so that you know which rules apply and for it to be smooth. It can be about rules for which training courses should be approved. It can be about tax rules and many such things. We have much to gain, both financially and in terms of new jobs and flexibility for citizens in solving such problems. My summary question is: How can we strengthen and develop Nordic cooperation?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-484	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it was also a question of how I see my role as Minister for the Nordic Region and being responsible for Nordic issues. I look forward to it very much. I think it can become increasingly important, not least because we have a so-called Nordic model of society that we are happy to defend and for which there is a great interest. It was no coincidence that we were invited by President Obama. He's looking at the North. Also from many other parts of the world you look at how we cooperate, how we solve practical problems and so on. Hillevi Larsson has just mentioned some areas in which we must continue to cooperate. And now that the EU is perceived as being in a sort of existential crisis, Nordic cooperation will be strengthened. I will go into this work with full force and look forward to working with my Nordic colleagues. Kristina Persson, with the work she has done, has laid the foundation for it.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-487	Mr President, I would like to We have a common foundation to build on in the Nordic countries. We have a great bond. You can talk about the Nordic model in the same way as we usually talk about the Swedish model here at home. We can also do that in Europe. It is about investing a lot in welfare and research, which has led to gender equality and many jobs, i.e. positive development. It is about everything from major international cooperation to everyday issues in border regions. It is a very important policy area. I wish the Minister good luck.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-490	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for that. I met the Secretary-General of the Nordic Council, Dagfinn H ø ybråten, the other day to discuss how we can set up the work and what the priorities should be. We also discussed that the Council of Ministers, and its different configurations, should be given room for topical issues, so that we can address the refugee issue in a good way, for example, and share experiences and best practices.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-492	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Foreign Minister my question. This is about Belarus. Everyone will remember 2012, when relations between Sweden and Belarus reached their low point. After an incident, Sweden's ambassador was sent home from Belarus. Since then, a lot has happened in our relationship. I have been a diligent visitor to Belarus. In the country, small steps are being taken forward. The political prisoners have been released, and we see small steps being taken in the right direction. However, we have a problem. It's about visa issues. The Swedish Embassy, which is beautiful, has an entire floor on the ground floor that is decorated as a visa department. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether Sweden might, in the coming years, take steps forward to open a visa service at the embassy in Minsk, in order to give, not least, young people the opportunity to access the EU.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-495	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. That is a true historical description. I know that there is a strong commitment also among other Members of Parliament to the issue of Belarus and political developments and how we should relate to Belarus, both on the part of the EU and bilaterally. Thank you so much for the job that I know you and others are doing, Kent Härstedt! You are working to push forward in the field of human rights and for development in a more democratic direction. It's important and appreciated. Of course, we must also look at these issues in the long term, just as we do with the Eastern Partnership countries. Without making any promises, I would like to say that this is one of the questions that we are prepared to address in the future. This presupposes that Belarus wants to move in the right direction, towards more democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-500	Mr President, I would like to What the Secretary of State just said is appreciated. I am in dialogue with representatives of the regime – I met the Foreign Minister as late as last week – but also with the opposition representatives. When it comes to requests for a visa through the Embassy of Sweden, it is a coherent song that is sung from all sides. Today, young people in Belarus have to go to Estonia to be able to apply for a visa. With the very good conditions we have at the Swedish Embassy it would be very grateful.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-502	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I can only say that this is an issue that we are willing to look at. This also applies to how it could be done in time and practical terms. Once again, thank you for the important efforts made by Kent Härstedt and others in Parliament to draw attention to the question about Belarus!
i-c69328df67c5c45f-503	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members for their participation.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-504	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The report is, in general, an account of last year's activities in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There, the Swedish delegation has performed very well in 2015, as the text of the report shows. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow party members and predecessors in the post of Vice-Chairman of the delegation in the previous year, Hillevi Engström followed by Olof Lavesson. The report covers the period during which they have been active. Thank you also to the excellent and competent members of the delegation here in Parliament. The Committee on Foreign Affairs notes that the Council of Europe bases its work on three core areas: the promotion of human rights, the rule of law and democratic governance. These may be said to be the central areas since the founding of the Council of Europe after the Second World War in 1949. Sweden was one of the original co-founders and signatories of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Since then, the organisation has gone to 47 Member States and today brings together most Eastern states, former Soviet states, B alkan states and a number of micro-states. Today, with its institutions, its parliamentary assembly and its Council of Ministers and with the European Court of Human Rights, the Council of Europe is set up as a guarantor of civil liberties on our continent. This applies to those countries that have signed the Convention and those that wish to join the European Union or to cooperate with it. It was the story so far. The problem is that if history has shown the importance of the Council of Europe in creating a platform for democracy, for the protection of the rights of individuals and for the promotion of the rule of law, the future of upholding these values and of the integrity of the organisation is much more uncertain today. There are two reasons for this, on which there is reason to dwell. One is linked to the fact that the Council of Europe today has a member ship containing states that are in different stages of democratic development. Unfortunately, in a number of cases we see signs that the work of maintaining the core values of the European Convention has stagnated or, in some cases, even begun to retreat. States such as the Russian Federation and Turkey are examples where state interference in media activities, harassment of the political opposition or NGOs clearly show a lack of respect for the core values of the European Convention. Sweden, the Swedish Parliament and the Swedish Government must of course work to counteract this development, both within and outside the institutions of the Council of Europe. In addition, Russian illegal annexation of Crimea and developments in Eastern Ukraine have led to the decision to suspend Russia's voting rights in April 2014 and January 2015. In Turkey, developments are also heading in a strongly negative direction, which is now globally known. On many points, with regard to the rights of Kurdish minorities, z on the possibilities for journalists to work freely – the latter I myself asked Turkey's then Prime Minister, Ahmet Davutou, in the second week of April this year, concerning the closure of the Zaman newspaper and compliance with Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Freedom of Expression – and on citizens' rights to organise themselves politically or in voluntary organisations and to enjoy protection for this, we see a dramatic restriction taking place. On all these points, President Erdo中an has actively opposed and opposed the maintenance of the fundamental principles enshrined in the Charter of the Council of Europe. The strong regulatory role of the Council of Europe also means that there are strong reasons to assume that Turkey's so far lack of interest in implementing the EU's acquis in the northern part of Cyprus may, by extension, make reunification of the island impossible unless Ankara changes its policy in this area. All in all, it is with great concern that we are following the gradual erosion of human rights in the Turkish state. The second reason for disapproval relates to the development of the States which are members of the European Union and hence also to the signatory powers of the European Convention. Here too, however, we see negative trends – not least the UK's questioning of the activities of the Council of Europe, which also forms a background to the ongoing debate on Brexit and the forthcoming British referendum on EU membership. Added to this are the increasingly worrying developments in Poland. The results of the elections in this state led in October 2015 to the fact that the Law and Justice Party now has its own majority in both chambers of Parliament. Parliament then decided on a new law concerning the constitutional court of the country which involves changes in the decision-making process in the Court of Justice. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe states that such changes undermine three fundamental principles for the countries of the Council of Europe: democracy, human rights and the rule of law. This can lead to a serious decline in the activity of the Court and make it ineffective as guardian of the Constitution, says the Venice Commission report. We in Sweden have every reason to monitor developments in Poland, which is an important and important country, a traditional partner for Sweden and a leading country in our Union. During the period covered by the report we are debating today in this House, a partnership has also been concluded between the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Jordanian Parliaments, which was approved in December 2015 and adopted at the January session this year. It should be pointed out that this obligation is being imposed. Jordan is a country with tangible human rights problems. This year we saw how the Jordanian government restricted freedom of expression when it banned screenings of the later Oscar-winning film The Danish Girl with Alicia Vikander in one of the leading roles. The reason was that the film promoted homosexuality and gender change. A ban on films such as The Danish Girl goes completely against the spirit of the partnership that the Jordanian Parliament has entered into, and there is a strong need to remind our partner of this. I am grateful to all the Swedish representatives in the Swedish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and other members who signed the written declaration submitted during the second session week this year. Not least all the Nordic members who did so demonstrate the value of Nordic cooperation in the Assembly. My moderate colleagues Tina Ghasemi and Boriana Åberg have made good efforts in the migration and gender equality committees during the year to safeguard Swedish values in terms of solidarity with migrants and refugees, the need for a policy that leads to a more balanced division of responsibilities, support for the neighbourhood and support for refugees, and to have a perspective on gender equality issues based on the principle of gender equality rather than discrimination. Finally, it is important to establish the strong normative role of the Council of Europe. It is important and the work of the Parliamentary Assembly is urgent to monitor and monitor the human rights situation in Member States, candidate countries and observer countries. However, if the Assembly and the Council of Europe want to retain this leading role, a concerted effort is needed to ensure the fundamental values of the Council of Europe and thereby its credibility. It is never enough for a state to enter into a principled agreement on respect for human rights and the rule of law. One must also actively live up to these in one's decisions and in one's actions.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-519	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a similar question to Tobias Billström as to Jonas Gunnarsson on the resolution and recommendation concerning travel and combatants in relation to Syria and Iraq. The moderate representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe voted in favour of the resolution and recommendation, which calls on the Member States to seek agreements with third countries with diplomatic guarantees in order to expel terrorists from Sweden. I wonder why Tobias Billström does not want to support it in Sweden and send an announcement to the government to look at and investigate this issue anyway.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-521	Mr President, I would like to Julia Kronlid's question of diplomatic guarantees gives me reason to put this in a historical perspective. It is now 12 years since the revelation of the expulsion of the two Egyptians, a deportation decided by the then Social Democratic Government and taking place in 2001. That expulsion was preceded by diplomatic guarantees. It was founded in an agreement with the then Egyptian Government that torture or other insulting treatment would not be considered. However, as the UN Committee against Torture stated afterwards: the rejection of the complainant was contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR. The production of diplomatic assurances, in which, moreover, there was no agreement on compliance with insurance policies, was not sufficient to provide protection against this obvious risk of torture. This, in my view, is sufficient to ensure that we should be very careful to see the use of such guarantees as a solution to the dilemma – for such a dilemma exists – in that foreign persons on our territory who commit crimes cannot be rejected to their home countries. So that is not a solution.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-524	Mr President, I would like to If it is not considered a solution, I wonder why the Moderates supported the recommendation in the Council of Europe. This particular case does not seem to me to show that we should not be able to try again, but rather that there was not enough follow-up, enough mechanisms to approve it. As I said: the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly dismissed such diplomatic guarantees because they have not been credible because it has not been enough. But there is also a case where it has been approved. It depends on the accuracy of the monitoring mechanisms and on the accuracy of the monitoring arrangements. I would like to go further and ask a question regarding the recognition of genocide. We have had that debate in Parliament. But I would like clarification from the Moderates once again. When there is a resolution also in the Council of Europe that says that we should assume that the IS act in Iraq and Syria is genocide and it calls on the Member States to act on the basis that it is a genocide that is going on, why can the Moderates here in the Swedish Parliament not agree to recognise that genocide and send a call to the government to recognise the horror that is going on in Iraq and Syria as a genocide?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-527	Mr President, I would like to I would like to repeat my previous reply that diplomatic guarantees are not a simple solution to a difficult problem. As Minister of State, I was responsible for cleaning up the issue of the expulsion of the two Egyptians, and I therefore have a very healthy respect for the inherent weakness of diplomatic guarantees. Once is once too much in my eyes. It should also be remembered that diplomatic guarantees are not made with countries such as Norway or Switzerland. They are always concluded with states where there is a risk from the outset that something will happen. That is the problem with diplomatic guarantees. With regard to the question of genocide, my party, both in government and opposition, has been negative about allowing the Swedish Parliament to develop into a parliament that adopts statements. We are mainly going to take decisions on legislation in this House. On the other hand, for the purposes of deciding whether genocide, which is a criminal offence punishable by international law, has been committed, there is the International Criminal Court. In the European Parliament, on the other hand, it is possible, and quite rightly, to adopt resolutions of the kind that we are now discussing. And there the Moderates have voted to condemn the Armenian genocide, which has actually taken place.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-531	Mr President, I would like to This report concerns the Council of Europe, the body created after the Second World War, on the basis of the experience that Europe drew from what it had been. It is about building a Europe based on human rights – how we take the UN Convention on Human Rights further through the European Convention, which has been agreed and written down – by marking that the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is the last word for the interpretation of human rights on our continent and by highlighting democracy and the principles of the rule of law as the basis for the development of our Europe. This has been an extremely important basis for taking us forward in Europe through the various institutions. Today, however, we must see that we have major challenges in all these areas. This applies, for example, to human rights. Through various reports also from our expert bodies and from our Ombudsman, we know that the conditions for human rights are deteriorating even in our Europe and in the Member States of the Council of Europe. Democracy is backing up and the rule of law is being eroded in several areas. We have seen this coming. Mr President, I would like to Russia became a member of the Council of Europe in 1996. We welcomed it because we believed that together we would take the journey forward to give Russian citizens an improved rule of law, human rights and a deeper democracy. We've seen where it goes. I myself was in 2008 discussing and standing up for the AKP in Turkey not to be banned from Parliament. That is what was happening at the time when Turkey felt that it could kick out the parties that it did not like from Parliament. Today we are seeing how Turkey wants to kick out HDP by removing immunity from them. You don't seem to have learned your lesson. In 2011, I was one of those who thoroughly reviewed developments in Hungary to see where Hungary was heading. There were very clear signals that the freedom fighter Orbán now suddenly chose a different path. Today, he is talking about an ill-liberal state that he wants to develop, with human rights, democracy and the rule of law gaining ground. We have now seen Poland move in the same direction. However, as has been said before, it is not only Erdo 中 an, Orbán and Putin who together form a triumvirate in taking a fight against the values on which the work of the Council of Europe has been based. Unfortunately, we also see the UK's efforts to undermine and pave the way in various ways for other players who can always lean on the UK. That is very regrettable. For example, the December decision of the Russian Constitutional Court states that the European Court of Human Rights no longer has the last word but reserves the right to review the views of the European Court of Human Rights. In fact, this decision means that one has the right, as it were, to jump even across the HR Court. And they have chosen to do so in terms of prisoners and prisoners' right to vote, and they have actually had a first case. It is precisely this area that the British – our friends from the UK – have had major problems with. Here we can clearly see how we are trying to build bridges in order to attract others to follow the same path, thereby undermining the common architecture we have in Europe in terms of human rights, namely the European Convention and the European Court of Human Rights. It's very serious. I could bring up a lot more. I hope that in June we will see our colleague in the Council of Europe, Nadja Savtjenko. We deplored the fact that she was illegally imprisoned. In 2015, she was in Russian captivity. She is now free. We hope that in June we will be able to welcome her again to the Parliamentary Assembly. I could refer to Georgia, which is once again threatened by becoming a new Crimea. Watch out, colleagues! This summer a new referendum will be announced in South Ossetia, and we can have a Crimea 2 on our continent. The question concerns accession to Russia. I do not have a reply in this area, which is because I voted against diplomatic guarantees. I fully share Tobias Billström's position. It was also an attitude that I was involved in examining from the Constitutional Committee once upon a time. All parties in Parliament criticised the re gional for this. I am therefore pleased that there are more of us here than we were in the Council of Europe when the matter was decided. Then I think I was one in three who voted 'no' in this part. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-541	Mr President, I would like to The Council of Europe is an important intergovernmental body for the protection of human rights, the rule of law and democratic governance. Europe is facing major challenges today, with increased tension and tension. In this situation, the Council of Europe plays an even greater role as a platform for exchange, dialogue and cooperation. The Council of Europe is an important player in human rights issues, where the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights are key tools. It must be stressed that the work for democracy and human rights is far from over on our continent. Instead, we see human rights being violated in countries such as Turkey, Hungary, Russia, Poland, Romania and Azerbaijan. It is a step backwards for the Council of Europe when several countries fail to comply with the commitments of membership by violating human rights in various ways. In my speech, I intended to concentrate on some of the key issues debated in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe over the past year. The issue of refugees is one of these issues. The debate has highlighted the importance of solidarity and humanism, as well as the fact that the solution is not to build walls. The Dublin Regulation has also been subject to – justified – strong criticism. The rich Europe with 730 million inhabitants should have no difficulty in receiving about 1 million people fleeing war, terror and oppression. I am pleased that, in the debate, I succeeded in strengthening the content of one of the reports by adding to the wording a binding responsibility for all EU countries to accept refugees, as well as writing about generous family immigration. Unfortunately, we see that a large number of countries have not taken their responsibility for the reception of refugees and how Sweden and the rest of Europe instead impose tougher restrictions on the reception of refugees. Instead of having a generous refugee policy, the EU has chosen to allow Turkey to act as a border police force – a Turkey which has recently taken several steps away from the path of democracy and has instead chosen a brutal confrontation with its Kurdish population. Military is being deployed in cities, and thousands have been killed. Bans and persecutions are used as collective punishments. Democraticly elected mayors have been forcibly removed. Journalists and other oppositionists have been imprisoned, and recently it was decided to abolish the immunity of parliamentarians. This means, in practice, an attempt to silence the last real opposition in the country, the left-wing party HDP. Desperate refugees are now being squeezed between Daish's forces on one side and the shooting Turkish border police on the other. More and more people have recently chosen to take the road between Libya and Italy, an even longer and more dangerous journey. As a result, hundreds of children, women and men have drowned in the Mediterranean in recent weeks. One issue that has continued to play a central role in the Council of Europe is the serious situation in Ukraine and Russia's aggressions and violations of international law. Of course, it is not acceptable for one Member State to annex a part of another Member State. The Left Party has therefore supported the Council of Europe's decision to temporarily deprive Russia of its right to vote in the Council of Europe. The debate has highlighted that only a sustainable political solution based on respect for Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity can lead to an improvement in the humanitarian situation, and that Russian aggression must cease. This is an attitude we fully share. In this context, it is also important to point out that the Council of Europe has also called for Ukraine to be subject to fundamental constitutional and economic reforms and respect for democratic rights. The important role of whistleblowers has been highlighted in a report. The report noted that whistleblowers have an important role to play in standing up for freedom of expression and the right to privacy and in combating corruption in both private and public activities. Whistleblowers help to strengthen and develop our democracies, so we need whistleblowers who blow the whistle when something is wrong. It is clear that stronger regulations are needed to protect whistleblowers, even when they are employed in the security and intelligence services. There is still some work to be done here, even for a country like Sweden. One issue that is strongly linked to this is that of mass monitoring. The issue was raised by whistleblower Edward Snowden when he exposed mass surveillance of millions of people worldwide. Snowden's intention was to let the public decide for themselves whether to live in a world of constant state surveillance. The dividing line must go between listening to criminals, for example when it comes to terrorist crimes and trafficking, and listening to everyone. Listening to communications between millions of people worldwide is not only a threat to fundamental rights but also ineffective in law enforcement. I am therefore pleased that the Council of Europe is raising this issue and clearly states that mass interception can only take place in such a way that it ensures the protection of human rights and is under parliamentary control. There is every reason for Sweden to review its own actions in the area of interception. It is high time to get to the bottom of Sweden's and the FRA's role in NSA's surveillance and interception activities by setting up a parliamentary scrutiny commission, as previously proposed by the Left Party. I would also like to mention briefly the positive report adopted by the Council of Europe on the rights of trans-nationals. This is a major step forward in strengthening the rights of trans-nationals in a wide range of areas. Finally, I can say that it is a pleasure to be part of a delegation which is one of the most active and involved in the Council of Europe. The Swedish delegation has a high presence and is also very active in the debate. I would like to thank the delegation leadership and the whole delegation for their good cooperation. I would also like to thank our very competent officials, because without you we would not be able to carry out our mission. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motion.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-557	Mr President, I would like to In these times the work of the Council of Europe is burning. The focus areas – human rights, democracy and the rule of law – are the liberal basis of Swedish foreign policy. After all, it is the Russian Federation which poses the greatest threat to these values in the region where the Council of Europe operates. Russia has broken the European security regime. The country has violently annexed parts of Ukraine, and the fate of the people is now in the hands of the very capricious Putin. Throughout the process, the Russian leadership has lied about what has been going on. There has been talk of bought uniforms and little green men. The Russian Embassy mocked Swedes who recently suspected Russia after the Mastsabomat. This is uneasy given what has happened in the shadow and what has happened not only in Ukraine but also in the Baltic countries. Unfortunately, we have probably not seen the last of this hybrid war taking place in our neighbourhood. We who realise the danger will continue to be mocked, because in Putin's Russia nothing is true and everything is possible. When strangers come to your home They kill you all and say We are not guilty Not guilty During this year's Eurovision Song Contest, Europeans voted for the Ukrainian contribution as winners. The song is called 1944 and is about how the singer Jamala's family at the end of World War II was deported because they were Crimean Tatars. Grandmother with five daughters was abducted by Stalin's men, while her husband called them in to fight in the Red Army. Similarly, Russian soldier mothers began to be silenced after the Ukrainian crisis when their sons returned home in coffins. They wouldn't be told that their own teenage boys were involved in a war because there was no war to talk about at all. Yet the boys lay there, in coffins. Where, then, would grief go? Art has the ability to get us into other people's situations, and 1944 is particularly topical. History repeats itself. In Crimea, since the Russian annexation, the situation has become particularly difficult for the Crimean Tatars. Several rights have been restricted since then. Freedom of association has been dismantled – people can no longer meet freely or even express themselves. The Crimean Tatars are again in trouble after Russian laws labeled them extremists. Once again, they must flee their homeland. UNICEF has alerted that half a million Ukrainian children are harmed both psychologically and physically. More than 200,000 children are internally displaced people in the country right now. Putin war will leave scars in an already vulnerable population. This is happening today, in Europe, not far from here. From the Swedish side, we must continue to show Russia that we do not accept the annexation of Crimea. We must do so within the framework of the Council of Europe, within the framework of European cooperation and within the framework of the work of the international community. In Europe, borders must never be moved by force.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-567	We could build a future where people are free To live and love The happiest time Mr President, I would like to Freedom of religion is an important principle for us liberals. Every person has the right to believe or not to believe. But we are seeing today that not least Christians are getting hurt in Europe and the world. Christians flee in thousands from the Middle East's killing machines Dai sh and As ad, of which the latter has Putin in tow. But they are also attacked by fundamentalist Islamist forces at asylum homes here in our Sweden. We see that the crisis phobia has increased in our country, according to Brås's measurement. Although we promise our citizens freedom of religion and even though that is why many people are going to Sweden, it is for many associated with the danger of life to tell them what they believe in. It's dangerous to tell people you're a Christian. We must realise that the Constitution is not enough or that the European Convention guarantees the right to freedom of religion. Anyone who harasses Christian women or LGBTQ people should be prosecuted and sentenced for it. We must make a very sharp mark against anyone who defies tolerance. Only then, Mr President, can we build a future in which people are just free.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-572	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report from the Swedish delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2015. Unfortunately, the Christian Democrats are not part of the delegation's term of office, but that does not make us feel in any way that its activities are less important. The Council of Europe is a good arena for discussing current and common political challenges with a focus on human rights and the rule of law. As far as possible, we are trying to follow the work that is taking place, and I have taken note with interest of both the presentation of the work carried out by the Swedish delegation in 2015 and the contributions made by representatives of the delegation here today. Within the framework of our European party association, the EPP, we also follow the work of the member parties on a continuous basis and what is happening in the Council of Europe. Of course, it is of particular interest to follow the Swedish delegation's interventions and actions in 2015. These include the terrorist attacks in Paris, the political situation in Ukraine, the human tragedy in the Mediterranean, the need for humanitarian and political responses to the migration and refugee crisis, religious freedom and discrimination against transsexuals in Europe. All are important areas to highlight and try to reach a common understanding of. It is also clear that Russia's annexation of Crimea and developments in Eastern Ukraine have been high on the political agenda. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and military presence in eastern Ukraine constitute flagrant violations of international law and is the main challenge to the European security regime since the end of the Cold War. We see not only a Russia which, with arms power, annexed part of a country in Europe, but also a Russia which is becoming increasingly aggressive in our immediate neighbourhood. The Council of Europe's report also shows that Russia is by far the worst among several countries when it comes to implementing judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. As a result, Russia has had its voting rights suspended in both 2014 and 2015. And I can imagine that tensions have been great in many of the debates that have taken place. The participation of Swedish Members in election observation is something that we Christian Democrats want to highlight in particular. It is an important tool in safeguarding democratic principles. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report. I would like to thank the Swedish delegation and its staff for their committed and important work. The questions discussed are of great importance. I also hope that, in parallel, you are pushing for the work of the Council of Europe to be as effective and effective as possible. I look forward to following the work in 201 6. The challenges remain worse, so good luck!
i-c69328df67c5c45f-586	Madam President, I would like The year 2015 and the beginning of 2016 have been an eventful time for the Council of Europe. Issues such as migration, terrorism and sexual harassment have been high on the agenda. I am therefore going to focus on these three areas. During the January session, an up-to-date debate was held on the events of sexual harassment in Cologne and Stockholm in particular. The large-scale and serious sexual harassment of women in 2015 has hardly left anyone untouched. The most tragic and horrifying thing is that this was covered up to the public, which in a democracy is totally unacceptable. Sexual harassment is nothing new in Europe, as it has probably existed in the entire history of mankind. What is new, however, is that a large number of men surround and attack a large number of women to the extent that the police cannot handle the situation. The unwillingness to highlight these events is also new. It is important that the perpetrators, regardless of their origin, are brought to justice. In order to prevent this problem from spreading further and ultimately becoming unmanageable, we must pay attention to the fact that there are differences in women's views between countries and cultures. If someone comes from a culture where a woman's clothes are seen as sexually inviting if they don't cover from the neck down to the toes, we must be prepared to defend our values. It goes without saying that this must be done without stigmatising and spreading hatred against a part of the population. I would say that it is the opposite, that we must include new members in our society and the values on which it is based. Old values do not automatically disappear simply because they are told. We must therefore work actively to preserve our fundamental European rights in terms of equality, which are protected in the Convention on Human Rights. The Council of Europe must always defend women's right to security, dignity and integrity. That's something we'll never compromise on. Madam President, I would like The terrible terrorist attacks that have taken place in Paris and Brussels, among others, have put the issue of the increased threat of terrorism to Europe high on the Council of Europe's agenda. The rise in terrorism poses a serious threat to international peace and security. All forms of violent extremism must be fought with the utmost determination. We need to make it clear that if you go and fight for a terrorist organization, you are committing a crime. We will do so both to deter people from taking part in such a journey and to show that if they do, there will be consequences. In the resolution on travelling combatants to Syria and Iraq, we tried to get this clarified but unfortunately did not receive support. Sweden has adopted terrorist legislation, which we think is a good thing. However, it is not enough. The Council of Europe cannot signal to the world that the only thing waiting for return is transition and reintegration. Such programmes are undoubtedly important for the prevention of young people at risk, but they are not sufficient for people who, in our opinion, have committed terrorist crimes. Madam President, I would like Reports from the UNHCR indicate that some 60 million people in the world are fleeing conflict or oppression or for other reasons. In Syria, nearly 4 million people have been forced to flee. Half of them are children, and many of them are severely traumatized. The horrendous acts committed in Iraq by the IS terrorist organisation – which will undoubtedly qualify as genocide – have forced another 2 million people to leave their homes. In the face of this disaster, where humanitarian needs are enormous, Europe seems to be stuck in a debate about the help we should be giving to the relatively limited group of people who have managed to reach Europe. Our help can reach many more if we focus on helping in the nearby areas. We have also failed to give priority to the legal ways that actually exist for refugees to enter Europe if they are not able to remain in the immediate and conflict areas. Because of this failure, merciless refugee smugglers now have the opportunity to exploit desperate people for their own evil purposes and put the lives of these people at risk. What we are witnessing is a difficult humanitarian disaster, but let me suggest a few things we can do. First of all, Sweden and other countries must contribute jointly and generously with humanitarian aid to the UNHCR in its important mission to assist refugees on the ground. Countries such as Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, as well as areas such as the Kurdish part of Iraq, have shouldered a great responsibility for receiving many refugees. It is of great importance that the EU can compensate particularly those countries and regions that have generously offered hospitality to many refugees from nearby areas. We believe that a sustainable and successful refugee policy must mean trying to help as many people as possible in the most effective way and orienting our help towards those who are most vulnerable. If Europe had the political will to help, we would instead give priority to the legal opportunities that exist, namely resettlement via the UNHCR, and we could have helped people in real need. In addition, UNHCR, World Food Program and associated agencies in nearby regions are in urgent need of resources. If we really want to help as many people as possible, this should be a priority and should be the focus instead of hugely costly immigration. The principle of the right to asylum should be made clearer and the whole regulatory system reformed. This includes the first-asylland rule, which needs to be strengthened rather than weakened. By country of first asylum, we mean not just an EU country but any country in the world that happens to be a refugee's first country of entry. Combined with this, international responsibility must be increased to support countries that receive many refugees.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-606	Madam President, I would like I have to ask: what immediate area does Johan Nissinen mean, and what increased responsibility should this near-conflict area take?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-607	Madam President, I would like By 'neighborhood' we mean the neighbouring countries where there is peace and which usually have a cultural similarity. If people make their way to a country with cultural similarities, it will be much easier to become part of society. The money is much more useful down there, and we can give instead of receiving a small quota here. There's a lot of people down there-- like I said, 60 million people around the world are running from war. If the resources we spend on refugees in Sweden were to go to UNHCR, we would have helped all the refugees.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-609	Madam President, I would like I note that this is a fantasy world in which the Swedish Democrats live. The EU received some 1.2 million refugees last year. It is a very small part of the world's total of 60 million refugees. If we look at the immediate area that the Swedish Democrats are talking about, we can see that it has already taken enormous responsibility. There are millions of refugees in Turkey. This is about more than a million dollars in a small country like Lebanon. These are countries that are actually collapsing under pressure. The Swedish Democrats then want these countries to take greater responsibility. We have the support of the UNHCR for what we do. We are a major donor to the UNHCR, and we shall be proud of that. But we are also a great helper, because we relieve the UNHCR by ensuring that people can get here. That's what you ask for.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-612	Madam President, I would like UNHCR has said that if they get more money, they can help more people. The neighbouring countries have also said that they are happy to accept this responsibility. They want to help, and they feel sympathy because it is about the same culture. That is why they want to help, and if we give them more money, they can do it. I do not understand why we should pursue a refugee policy where we will take a few people to Sweden and Europe when we can help many more people down there. The policy you are pursuing means that you sort out the few who manage to get to Europe through smugglers of refugees. They're the only ones who deserve the help, you seem to think. But we can help many more who are down there, so I cannot understand the logic of the policy pursued by the other parties.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-614	Madam President, I would like Jonas Gunnarsson, Tobias Billström and Kerstin Lundgren have all three highlighted many important issues based on the Council of Europe's 2015 year. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to raise a number of issues in particular which I have seen during the year because I am a member of the Committee on Migration, Refugees and Forced Deportation. The current situation of people on the run has marked much of the year. Refugees drowning in the Mediterranean, a Dublin system that has collapsed more or less and the situation in Greece have been issues dealt with by the Council of Europe. The lack of joint responsibility and solidarity of refugee policy within the EU has also been reflected in the debates of the Council of Europe, and there are clear dividing lines between different countries and between different political parties in view of what needs to be done. For us, it is of the utmost importance to create legal ways into Europe to combat trafficking in human beings. However, it is equally important to support the reception of refugees in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, who have received a majority of Syrian refugees in addition to the refugees they are already hosting. One issue that has been much discussed, and which has been mentioned here too, is the conflict in Ukraine. One issue that has been dealt with this year is that of the Russian prisoner Nadija Savtjenko, who is Ukrainian and a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am pleased that Mr Savtjenko has recently been released. As Kerstin Lundgren mentioned, it will be interesting to see if we can hear what she has to say during the Council of Europe session this June. The situation of internally displaced persons in Ukraine, about 1 1⁄2 million people, remains difficult after the Russian illegal annexation of Crimea and the continued fighting in eastern Ukraine. This issue will probably lead to further discussion in the Council of Europe. It can be noted that the issue of the current refugee crisis continues to mark the start of the year's work in the Council of Europe. Recently, I and several other delegates visited refugee camps in and around Athens to see the situation in Greece as a result of the EU-Turkey agreement. The visit to Greece made it clear that, following a long-term economic crisis, the country has neither the resources nor the capacity to cope with the current refugee situation alone. The message from both the Greek government and regional and municipal politicians as well as NGOs was clear: Tell us about your trip and what you have seen! Europe must take joint responsibility and show solidarity. It is not sustainable to believe that only a few countries will meet this challenge. With these words, I would like to thank the whole delegation but also the employees who have worked for us.
i-HhApg6LyvuAQScAbmoZSnh	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report 2015/ 16:U15 on human rights. The report deals with some 60 requests from the general period of exercise during the 2014/ 15 parliamentary year and the current parliamentary year. The report is comprehensive and deals with the human rights situation in eight countries. Unfortunately, I will not be able to touch on all the countries mentioned in the report. It is not because of lack of interest but because of respect for the time of this House, Mr President. In my speech, I will focus on two individual countries, China and Russia, as well as horizontal human rights issues. The work of promoting democracy, human rights and sustainable development permeates Swedish foreign policy for a long time. We Moderates believe that Sweden should be a clear voice in the world for human rights. We believe that Sweden should act bilaterally and multilaterally through the European Union, Nordic cooperation, the UN, the Council of Europe, the OSSE and other international partners. The care and defence of human rights is an integral and central part of Swedish foreign policy and will remain so, in our opinion. Sweden must continue to promote the values and principles of open society in its commitment as a member of the EU and other international organisations. The EU is one of our most effective foreign policy tools. Sweden has been working here for many years to strengthen the European External Action Service (EEAS) and thus to strengthen the European foreign policy voice. Mr President, I would like to This is particularly important today when the threat to human rights is much greater than it was a few years ago. I would like to highlight here the Eastern Partnership as an important part of the work of the European Union. The Eastern Partnership was established during the previous term of office on the initiative of Sweden and Poland. The aim was to strengthen human rights in the former Sovjetre republics and to promote human rights and contacts between the EU and the eastern countries. This is an important work that has proved successful. This has proved to lead to more democracy and economic growth. It is therefore also important that this work continues. For us Moderates, it is urgent that Sweden's foreign policy and development cooperation reflect our hopes for a world where people can live free, without fear and need. Democracy and respect for political and civil rights are key prerequisites for the realisation of economic, social and cultural rights. Unfortunately, there are many clouds in the sky when it comes to human rights today. There are several signs and indications that human rights are becoming a lower priority on the political agenda around the world. For what I mentioned earlier to be possible, we must continue our international work. However, we must also support civil society and all the good forces that exist within NGOs. These work actively for human rights, both at home and internationally. I would like to highlight another point in the report. I asked the Foreign Minister about this earlier. This concerns the absence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' report on human rights. The Parliament has not received any report since no one has been delivered since the 2014 elections. This is very unfortunate, because it is not only the Swedish Parliament that lacks the reports. This also applies to other stakeholders in the form of NGOs, civil society and others, who take part of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs can account for the human rights situation. This is very regrettable. I am well aware that the Government intends to appoint an ambassador for human rights and so on. It may be good in its own way, but it must not be the case that reports that form the basis of foreign policy work on human rights are lacking as is the case now. It's not good. It's underrated. As I mentioned, we are living in a time of unrest, conflict and conflict. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is one example. Daish's advance in the Middle East is another. The terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels also point to threats to human rights. I shall now turn to talking about China, which is also included in the report, where we Moderates have a motion. I mention China because it is a country of great importance to the outside world, partly because of its trade and production and partly because of its size and dominance. Trade relations between the West and China are extensive. China is actually Sweden's largest trading partner. Trade between China and EU Member States amounts to over EUR 1 billion on a daily basis. It's an astronomical sum. That is why we Moderates believe it is urgent that Sweden and the EU use trade to strengthen human rights in China, as we have done in many other cooperation agreements, Mr President. Similarly, the EU can work to increase human rights in China. China is today, as before – there is no difference – a one-party state. There is no opposition, and there is a lack of free speech and all other human rights. Amnesty International has stated that China is the country that executed the most people in 2015. There is a great deal of scope here for EU action to push for human rights. Since I have not seen a report from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs since the 2013 Annual Report, that is what I refer to here. Workers' rights are disadvantaged. We have been able to watch it on television and read about it repeatedly in the media. We can also see how Tibet is attacked by China. There is not much information reaching out from Tibet, but the one coming is alarming. I would also like to pick up something new that is being reported. It is that China is imprisoning regime critics beyond its borders. China has captured and imprisoned regime critics from Hong Kong, Thailand, Taiwan and Sweden. This is not how it's supposed to happen. It is important for international organisations to act to ensure that prisoners are also released. I would also like to mention the death penalty, which is still applied in China. The death penalty has no place to fill in the modern legal system. I see that I have already exhausted my speaking time and will move on to Russia, as I mentioned earlier in my speech on the OSSE. Mr President, I would like to Russia is a country that has most strongly violated and shown military aggression against Ukraine. This is not acceptable. It is urgent that the outside world and the EU continue with their trade blockades towards Russia, Mr President. It is also important that the Minsk agreements are fulfilled and that fighting and attacks on Ukrainian territory, on Ukraine's self-determination, stop. I would like to raise a few more issues with regard to Russia, Mr President. It is about how Russia complicates the situation for LGBT people. That is also totally unacceptable. As reports seep out on how LGBT people are violated and imprisoned. This is not acceptable. Similarly, news is constantly coming to me about the situation of journalists who are regularly imprisoned and about minority groups who are persecuted – I can continue to mention how Russia violates human rights in various ways. I call on all international organisations where Sweden is a partner to listen to Sweden and make sure to push the issues and prioritise human rights in Russia high. Mr President, I would like to I would like to continue by mentioning a few things that are important and central to women's rights. There is much to say about women's rights, but I would like to highlight one thing that has helped women out of poverty. It's about entrepreneurship and microloans. Here, with little effort, it is possible to make big differences for women who have the opportunity to make a living, their family and their children. In this way, they can avoid many of the problems women face – being abused by a man who sits above women's rights or risk getting into prostitution. The self-sufficiency of women also increases women's opportunities for a good life and the preservation of human rights. I would like to highlight one more issue in this context. It's about free speech. The free speech is threatened today. It is threatened in many places. We're getting reports of imprisoned journalists. There are Swedish journalists who are imprisoned, and that is of course not acceptable, as little as it is acceptable for journalists from other countries to be detained. Unfortunately, we are increasingly seeing the free word being violated on the Internet. Countries are closing the Internet. One country that is not mentioned in our document is Turkey. More than 100,000 websites have been closed there. One of the greatest threats to free speech today is when governments go in and shut down people's ability to communicate with each other. Mr President, I would like to I have now exceeded my speaking time by more than four minutes. I apologize for this.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-647	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of involvement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and it is not easy to talk about so many countries in a few minutes. I can say that I will not be able to talk about all the countries involved here, but it is not because of lack of commitment but because of lack of time. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 3 and 5, even if we support all our reservations. For time to come, I can say that as far as China is concerned, which I will not be able to enter, I agree with what Margareta Cederfelt has said. The Swedish Democrats support the Moderate reservation in this report. Mr President, I would like to As far as Myanmar/ Burma is concerned, we welcome the developments there in recent years. In 2010, Aung San Suu Kyi was released when the elections were held for the first time in 20 years. In 2011, a civilian government was elected, and in 2012 many members of the opposition were elected to the parliament. We welcome the reforms that have been implemented, but in view of the fact that the situation in the country, not least as regards political prisoners, unresolved ethnic conflicts and the position of minorities, is still serious, we believe that it has been too naive when most of the sanctions were lifted so early. The international community should have had more ice in its stomach. At the same time, we hope, of course, that progress will continue on the track. We believe that the UN Human Rights Rapporteur needs to remain. It is essential for the community to step up its efforts to draw attention to the situation of minorities, which is still difficult, including the vulnerable situation of the Karen people, and to support their efforts for greater autonomy, democracy and human rights. Even the Muslim minority of the Rohingya people are subjected to oppression, unrest and violence. According to Human Rights Watch, the government has attempted to forcibly relocate a large part of the country's Muslim population to camps. This type of forced displacement does not belong in 2016, and we therefore believe that the government should pay attention to how the Burmese state treats the Muslim minority. For the future, we would also like to point out the importance that Sweden does not hesitate to make clear and tough demands on Burma in our relations with the country within the framework of the EU and within the framework of the UN Security Council. Mr President, I would like to The right to choose and practice religious faith is one of the most fundamental human rights and, at the same time, a right that is constantly ignored and where people are discriminated against in many parts of the world. In Nigeria, the Islamic terrorist group Boko Haram attacks all, both Christians and Muslims, who do not accept living under Sharia legislation. According to information, the terrorist group has caused at least 800 deaths. Some states in the country have limited Christians'right to school while Christians are threatened by kidnapping, forced marriage, denied employment, clean water, and health care. In parts of the country it is associated with great risks to convert to Christianity. It is dangerous for churches to accept new converts. In addition to brutal terrorist attacks on churches, the group has been best known for mass kidnappings of girls who they then sell as children's brides. I'm sure I'm not the only one who remembers the famous hashtag #bringbackourgirls. A couple of weeks ago the relatives received a life sign from kidnapped little girls who on video, forced Muslim veils, told them that they are alive but of course want to come home again. Even in Pakistan, Christians live dangerously. The country's strict blasphemy laws are used as a tool to oppress religious minorities. The punishment can also be like taken from the Middle Ages. It's terrible punishment. The law of blasphemy has been criticised by the UN but is still widely applied. In addition to criminal repression, Christians and other minorities are severely discriminated against at all levels of society. In addition to government repression, minorities in the country must keep their eyes open to religious fundamentalist and systematic terror attacks. Last March this year, 75 people were killed and over 300 injured when a bomb detonated in a park where a group of Christians celebrated Easter. These are shocking examples of the brutal oppression of Christians and other minorities. Mr President, I would like to During the preparation of this report on human rights, it has been easy to suffer a degree of depression when so many parts of the world are on fire. But there are also light points. One of the light points is on the Horn of Africa in Somaliland. While Somalia has suffered greatly from civil war and religious fanaticism, Somaliland has enjoyed over two decades of peaceful and stable development. Unlike countries with similar conditions, Somali residents have held three democratic elections without complications, and we hope that the next elections scheduled for 2017 will be held in the same spirit. Somaliland has a democratically elected president, a functioning political system, administrative authorities, currency, flag, national anthem, football team and everything else that we believe belongs to a state. The only thing Somaliland lacks is our support. For the Swedish Democrats, who are a social-conservative party with a nationalist basic view, it is self-evident that all peoples with a legitimate international demand for independence and a desire to form their own state should also be able to create their own future. The people of Somaliland have a defined land area. The area has a government capable of exercising territorial control. Despite the fact that Somaliland is a clan-based society, the path to democracy has been found and can therefore serve as an example for other countries in the region. However, recognition has so far been lacking, particularly because Somali country's neighbours, which largely consist of undemocratic regimes, are not prepared to take the necessary step. I also suspect that many European governments lack both insight and interest in this issue. I must also question the committee's position on the question of recognition. The committee writes that Sweden recognises states, not governments or political actors, which is quite true. However, the committee text does not say whether or not Somaliland is judged to meet the criteria of international law, which is, of course, at the heart of the matter. The committee also refers to the fact that Somaliland has not been placed in the African Union for reasons of non-recognition. If one had assumed that the AU's international legal assessment of the issue had been correct, that would have been one thing, but one does not – one simply assumes that this is the case. Then it seems particularly strange that the government does not want to recognise Western Sahara, which is actually a member of the African Union. Mr President, I would like to When we see positive developments in the pursuit of democracy, this must be encouraged so that more people will want to go that way. This year Somaliland celebrates 25 years of acting as an independent state, and I am extremely proud to belong to the only party in the Swedish parliament that does not anxiously look at what others say and do, but instead makes an independent assessment and unequivocally wants to stand up for the Somali people's right to self-government and the future. It is time to give peace and justice a chance. We think it's time to acknowledge Somaliland. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would also like to apologise for exceeding my speaking time. There have been many different opinions on various issues in the report. There are two areas in which I am pleased that we can support a unanimous statement by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, namely with regard to Russia and Cuba. In recent years, Russia's actions in the field of human rights have become more and more worrying. As the report states, Russia also receives strong criticism from the UN Human Rights Committee. The justice system in the country lacks independence. There is no legislation to ensure protection against discrimination. Torture and degrading treatment by authorities occur, and journalists and oppositionists are persecuted. In short, the Russians are entering a very worrying development. Russia's behaviour in Ukraine is totally unacceptable. My fellow Member Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, who is a member of the Swedish-Ukrainian Friendship Association, recently visited Ukraine. The humanitarian situation of people in separatist-led areas is very worrying. Based on the information he received, there was no doubt about Russia's military involvement with Russian officers directly subordinate to Russian commanders in separatist areas. It is good that a united Foreign Affairs Committee stresses the importance of a continued consistent policy of sanctions against Russia. We welcome the decision by the European Union in December 2015 to extend the sanctions. EU sanctions against Russia must be maintained as long as Russia's destabilisation of Ukraine continues and the illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol remains. It is of great importance that Russia implements the Minsk Agreement and immediately releases Ukrainian citizens who are being held in custody illegally and in violation of the Minsk Agreement. As this is my last day in Parliament before parental leave and summer, I would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a pleasant summer, including the President and my colleagues in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I won't be standing here in the speaker's chair for a while.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-672	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Foreign Affairs deals in principle with a report on human rights during each Parliamentary session. This is an important area. The struggle for the rights of all people to be guaranteed can never stop or be put on hold until it is actually safer for everyone. One could have thought that the world's population in 2016 would enjoy its human rights, that democracy was the norm and that people could live in security. But we all know that is not the case. The work must continue. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's voice for better compliance with human rights worldwide is important. Human rights are a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy and will continue to be so with unabated force. The government has taken a holistic approach to the work on human rights in foreign policy and is active on the issue in the EU, in the UN and in bilateral relations. Last year the government began work on producing a new letter on human rights, democracy and the rule of law that will be submitted to Parliament this summer. Mr President, I would like to Support for peace, democracy and economic development in Europe's neighbourhood must continue. The European security regime must be safeguarded. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and military presence in eastern Ukraine constitute flagrant violations of international law. This is the biggest challenge facing the European security regime after the end of the Cold War. The Government is clear that the EU sanctions against Russia should be maintained as long as Russia's destabilisation of Ukraine continues and the illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol remains. It is of the utmost importance that the EU pursues a consistent policy of sanctions vis-à-vis Russia, and it is welcome that in December 2015 the EU decided to extend the sanctions. Russia must also comply with the Minsk agreements. Today's Russia is not yesterday's Soviet Union. A fundamental and positive change has certainly taken place. Many good things have happened since the Soviet era, but there are nevertheless worrying negative developments concerning freedom of the press, democracy and respect for human rights in Russia. Specific legislation with a cape against LGBTQ rights has also been adopted. Developments in recent years have moved in an authoritarian and repressive direction. The democratic development and human rights situation in Russia are going in the wrong direction. Mr President, I would like to The Human Rights Watch Report 2016 shows, among other things, that respect for freedom of expression and the opportunities for independent critics to operate further deteriorated in 2015 and that LGBTQ people's rights are violated. The report also highlights that during the year the Kremlin intensified restrictions on the media and civil society. The outside world has a responsibility to call on Russia and other countries to stop persecuting dissidents, to respect the rights of LGBT people, to respect freedom of expression, assembly and association and to abolish the laws that prevent the emergence of an active and independent civil society. Mr President, I would like to The government is clear on the importance of continuing to pursue a consistent and clear policy in relations with Russia, while at the same time putting the emphasis on building mutual trust through concrete cooperation and increased contacts with citizens and civil society in Russia. The Government has decided to prioritise efforts to enhance respect for human rights and citizens' opportunities for democratic influence, increased participation in political processes and higher capacity of change actors and civil society to promote democracy, human rights and non-discrimination, among other things, in the strategy adopted in 2014 for Russia. Mr President, I would like to Since the 1958 revolution, Cuba has been dictatorial, and democratic and human rights have been constantly violated. The people of Cuba need the support of the outside world in their fight for democracy. It is therefore positive that President Obama announced in December 2014 the normalisation of US diplomatic relations with Cuba, which led, among other things, to the release of 53 political prisoners. However, Cuba has a long way to go. Respect for human rights must be improved. In particular, civil and political rights and freedom of expression must be respected, and all political prisoners must be released. Sweden is a driving force within the EU for the Union to work continuously to strengthen respect for human rights in Cuba. This commitment also permeates how Sweden bilaterally relates to Cuba. Sweden stands up for each individual's right to democracy and human rights and belonged to those countries within the EU that pushed too hard demands for democracy and human rights before the EU negotiations with Cuba for a political dialogue and cooperation agreement. In the light of the rapprochement between the US and Cuba and the EU negotiations on a bilateral agreement with Cuba on cooperation and political dialogue, the government has seen it as natural to re-establish Sweden's bilateral dialogue with Cuba. In MoU, i.e. a letter of intent on development cooperation and political dialogue between Sweden and Cuba, a regular political dialogue is established, among other things, which is proposed to address a wide range of issues, including human rights. In addition, a development cooperation strategy with Cuba is being prepared to support the country in the ongoing reform process towards modernisation of the country, including the economy, and greater respect for human rights. Mr President, I would like to Cuba is at a stage of change. We Social Democrats generally believe that dialogue is preferable to isolation. Dialogue with Cuba must take place with the active participation of Cuba's political opposition, human rights activists and proponents of democracy in order to contribute to a peaceful transition to a democratic society with significantly improved living conditions for the Cuban population. The Cuban people should not have to choose between democracy and respect for human rights and general welfare.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-690	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. I shall then turn to my questions to Mr Niemi. The first question concerns the Eastern Partnership. I listened to Mr Niemis's speech, but I did not understand anything about the Eastern Partnership. I hope it's because of the lack of time. The Eastern Partnership is extremely urgent. Sure, there's no more Soviets, but geographically the countries are still there. They are now independent after the fall of the Soviet empire. The ducks have obvious problems and depend on cooperation with the outside world to move forward. I would like to confirm here that the Social Democrats will work to support the Eastern Partnership. The second question concerns Cuba. It is welcome that there is a process of democratisation in Cuba, but there is also a lot of experience to fall back on when it comes to supporting a country that goes from dictatorship to democracy. Many mistakes have been made throughout the ages. History terrifies in a lot of cases. Is this view something that will also be included in the government's work for greater democracy in Cuba? I mention this because I did not hear anything about it in the speech either.
i-9M4ZUKn9V1KJezxFRePQ6q	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for important questions! Yes, the Eastern Partnership is extremely important for us Social Democrats and also for the Red Green Government. We are well aware of the challenges facing these countries. Within the EU, we can help to increase democratic transparency, competence and economic trade. Above all, we shall also support the development of human rights in these countries. We know very well that the Eastern Partnership includes countries where there are enormous problems with regard to human rights issues. But there are also problems with the process of democracy itself. The answer to that question is yes. That's where we're in complete agreement. Work will proceed with continued intensity. We're not gonna give up the fight. The best way into the EU is to really open the doors to these countries in the Eastern Partnership. Of course, there is so much experience that the Swedish Government and also the previous government can contribute to Cuba. There is also competence and knowledge to help Cuba on the right track. The experience is positive. We see very well that helping people and countries to help themselves in the development of democracy, they are learning to handle such a development quite quickly. It is about everything from collecting taxes to creating a sense that politics means something, that politics makes a difference. We must also ensure that we have a well-functioning judicial system and so on. Yes, the expertise that exists both here in Sweden and your colleagues will of course be used in all the contacts we have with Cuba.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-699	Mr President, I would like to I'll get back to Cuba. So far, all is well when it comes to building up the rule of law and its principles. But I want to beat a punch for business and entrepreneurship. Business and entrepreneurship are underdeveloped in Cuba. If it is to be possible to collect taxes, to get jobs, to gain confidence and to have self-sufficiency, it must also be a functioning business. There is a need for training for business and entrepreneurship. These are two issues that are central to Cuba. I hope that it is also part of the Social Democratic approach, just as it does in our moderate approach. I want to raise this issue because entrepreneurship is needed.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-703	Mr President, I would like to As with the Eastern Partnership, trade issues are important. It is about opening the way to bilateral trade agreements but also about opening the way for the other EU countries. We look at contacts with Cuba in the same way. Now Cuba may not be the closest neighbour to us, but they have raw materials that we can certainly enjoy. With our bilateral work with Cuba, I am convinced that we can open up other ways, not only talking about democracy, but also talking about other issues that strengthen the country. Education is, of course, an important factor, as is the economy. It is also about being able to get good export revenues, good import revenues and, above all, a lot of know-how when sanctions and blockades have been lifted. They can then have opportunities for good growth in the future. It is not at all in contradiction to our political agenda. I assume that this will be taken up in the talks we are holding with them.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-706	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! The foundation of Swedish foreign policy is human rights. It is the essence, the essence of humanity – that everyone is equal and that everyone should have the same rights, wherever one is born, in whatever situation one may be and wherever in life one stands. That shouldn't be so hard to achieve. But unfortunately, our world does not look like that. Let me recite Amnesty International's annual report for 2015 – 2016, which has looked at 160 countries. In at least 113 countries, freedom of expression and freedom of the press were arbitrarily restricted. * Over 60 million people in the world were on the run, many of whom have been on the run for years. * Over 30 countries illegally forced refugees to return to countries where they were in danger. * Armed groups assaulted at least 36 countries. * At least 156 human rights defenders were executed or died while in custody. * There are prisoners of conscience in at least 61 countries – that is, people imprisoned solely for exercising their human rights. * At least 122 countries engaged in torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. * War crimes or other violations of the laws of the war were found in at least 19 countries. * In at least 55 percent of the countries there were inadequate trials. When a trial is flawed, justice is not done – either for the accused, for the victim of the crime, or in the eyes of society. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Our world is distorted. That is why human rights must permeate all our policies, be the cornerstone of all our policies. We have to work hard. Sweden should always react to repression and abuse, prevent discrimination and help strengthen other countries' capacity to respect human rights. And that is exactly what our feminist foreign policy is focusing on. Mr President, I would like to The government has taken a holistic approach to the important work of human rights in foreign policy. It was already announced in the 2015 Foreign Declaration that a new letter on human rights, democracy and the rule of law would be produced. It will be sent to Parliament during the summer. On the basis of that letter, extensive work will be undertaken to re-establish country-specific and region-specific reports on human rights. They will be signed in 2016 and will be published in 2017. The government has appointed MR Ambassador Annika Ben David. The Security Council candidacy has led to many discussions that have had the opportunity to raise the issue of human rights. A place in the UN Security Council will be important for our work on human rights. It is important that, in all trade dialogues or whatever issues we discuss with our foreign partners, we always raise the issue of human rights where it is necessary. I had the opportunity to meet Javad Zarif, Iran's Foreign Minister, when he visited Sweden last week, and I can testify that human rights and women's rights issues were highlighted in the discussions at all levels during the talks. Mr President, I would like to An unequal society is not a society that respects human rights. The government has adopted an action plan for feminist foreign policy. In 2016, this means that particular focus will be on strengthening women's and girls' human rights in humanitarian situations and combating gender and sexual violence in post-conflict and conflict. Women's and girls' opportunities to be actors are also highlighted very clearly, and in the context of peace processes, peace-promoting efforts and the work for sustainable development, this should always be highlighted. Sweden will also continue to be a driving force in the work for sexual and reproductive health and rights, and in 2016 we pay particular attention to the rights of girls and young people. We need to work against gender-based violence. We need to work against domestic violence. We need to work against sexual violence. We must work against female circumcision, against child marriage, against injustices that affect LGBT people and against human trafficking. In Sweden's feminist foreign policy, the implementation of Resolution 1325 and the subsequent in-depth resolutions are a cornerstone. Women are under-represented in politics in most countries. It can be difficult for women to get involved politically and to be elected to decision-making assemblies. The lack of equality and exclusion of women is particularly evident in countries characterised by war and conflict. It is therefore important for the outside world to make clear demands on countries to involve women as well. Women must be well represented in peace processes in order for us to achieve lasting peace. Women must participate on equal terms in shaping society after conflicts. It is in the peace negotiations that we specify how a society should function and how resources should be allocated. You cannot exclude 50% of the population. Despite the adoption of Resolution 1325, women are not visible in peace negotiations. Sweden is now actively working to increase women's influence. Having said that, I am in favour of the proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report on human rights and rejecting all reservations.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-721	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Pernilla Stålhammar on feminist foreign policy. I also think it is important for women's rights to be strengthened. It is about women's ability to make a living and about women's participation in society. Pernilla Stålhammar talks about women being 50 percent involved. I just want to make sure: it is not a question of the Green Party wanting to introduce quotas and seeking other countries or bodies to have quotas in terms of participation in different processes.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-723	Mr President, I would like to We do not have an explicit policy on quotas to bring in women. We believe that women need to be strengthened in other ways in order to get them into processes. On the other hand, reasonable requests can be made as to how many women are to sit in different forums, and it is important that women are allowed to participate in different decision-making forums. I know we have a consensus here.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-724	Mr President, I would like to It is about strengthening women but also about raising awareness of what women can bring. In this context, I would like to highlight and strike a blow to women's opportunities for entrepreneurship and livelihoods. One thing that has been very successful in this context is precisely what I mentioned in my speech, namely micro-loans. It is about being able to borrow small amounts and start a business that leads to a profit and an opportunity for women to support themselves and their children and thus be able to get a position in their society and not have to be the one that always has to ask for a handout. I would like to receive Pernilla Stålhammar's reflection on women's opportunities for entrepreneurship.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-727	Mr President, I would like to Like Margareta Cederfelt, I think it is extremely important. It is also an important part of development policy that we are able to contribute with micro-loans. We have seen that it has been very successful. Women who receive these loans often manage to start a business, and they also pay back the loans. Then there are other issues of economic ownership and so on for women. These are, for example, issues such as succession rights, questions about owning land and land tenure that we work very much with in development cooperation. These are extremely important pieces for women to be able to live in an equal society.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-729	Mr President, I would like to This report seems to concern human rights globally, but that is not the case. It is based on the motions that have been raised in the meantime since we last dealt with human rights. Last year we had a thematic report. This year, we're dealing with a lot of exercise. That's why it might look a little strange. Mr President, I would like to It is also particularly remarkable because in the past we have leaned strongly against the reports that have come from the government on human rights in particular. There, as has been shown by many debates in this House, we have been left without that help. For the last two years, there have been no reports. Now let us see what follows when the government eases the apology after the vote in the Security Council has taken place and we get a letter that we look forward to with a certain curiosity. It may perhaps be a new answer to the current letter, Freedom from Oppression – a letter about Sweden's democratic aid, which is the basis for Sida's entire work in this area. I hope that freedom from oppression will also be included in the government's work on human rights in the future, but I ask myself a few questions as to whether that will be the case. Mr President, I would like to I discussed this quite a bit yesterday with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a debate on these reports. We'll see about that. Now that I listened to Pernilla Stålhammar as the representative of the government, it sounded like there was still a link to the Security Council campaign. We will also have to assess this when we see the letter. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Committee on Foreign Affairs met parts of the Committee on Foreign Affairs from China. We had reason to discuss and highlight human rights issues from different perspectives, as far as we now have time. The human rights situation is serious, and the legal system is communist. It is clearly not a free justice system. Amnesty, on whom we have to rely on the death penalty, reports thousands of death sentences over the past year, and progress is going in the wrong direction. For us, both the death penalty and the development of human rights in China are a priority. We could also note that China has also received its law on foreign agents, as in Russia. There the police have now been given strong powers to restrict Chinese organisations that cooperate with foreign countries. It is a trend that Putin started that is very serious. Human Rights Watch estimates that there is a downward trend in human rights, and so do Reporters without Borders. We see this with regard to Tibet and the rights of minorities. The situation in the closed country of China is in this part very serious. Cuba is a country that we hope will open up through the opening that comes as a result of the US lifting of previous sanctions. But there are still arbitrary detentions, and opposition and journalists are in prison. It is something that remains serious. If the Cubans are to have freedom in the future and democracy and human rights are fully respected, Sweden's voice must not be silenced. We must be a strong voice in Europe for this. It is good that we have an announcement here from the whole committee. I could have touched Myanmar and the Rohingya people. I could have touched North Korea, giving it a face. It gives human rights to one person, namely the leader of North Korea, and the others do not share. Mr President, I would like to For time to win, I'm going to Russia, our big neighbor. Here too, there is an announcement from the committee which I welcome. It is partly in favour of the motion that the Center Party has had but also of the Liberals and Moderates, I think, but at least of the Liberals. It is welcome and important. Russia has also gone in the wrong direction with regard to human rights. The UN Human Rights Committee is one of the marks. It is clear what is happening in eastern Ukraine and the northern Caucasus. It's violence against journalists, violence against LGBT people. Human rights defenders face violence themselves, are harassed in various ways, threatened, imprisoned and even murdered. The Human Rights Watch report of 2016 points to threats to the office of opinion, meeting and association. Independent critics are silenced, civil society is drained, and it became worse in 2015. I was present myself when Boris Nemtsov, who was murdered outside the Kremlin, was buried. It was probably the last major manifestation made on the streets of the Kremlin. Mr President, I would like to Ukraine and Russia cannot be avoided in this context. The illegal, illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia has now been acknowledged by Putin that he was behind and planned. This was evident from a documentary that was also shown on Russian television. There is a military presence, and Ukraine does not get the right to the borders of its own territory. Russia is today a country that does not have recognised borders in our Europe. We have seen the kidnapping of people from Ukrainian territory to Russian prisons. We could see an exchange of Savtjenko, which is affected in the report, for other prisoners. But we still see that there are others left. For example, as late as June 1st, Oleg Sentsov received no at the Supreme Court. He is sentenced to 20 years in prison – a filmmaker from Crimea who has minor children who are not even allowed to correspond with his father in Russian captivity. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, but it is a receipt of human rights in Russia. That the Crimean Tatars, whose leaders were here, have had their Parliament e-mail closed and that they are classified as terrorists is another example. The Crimean Tatars are again in danger of being driven on the run. Several are on the run but in Ukraine. We have also seen that Russia adopted new laws last year. It's not enough for former agents. There's got to be more. It has now created a space for the authorities to engage more freely with NGOs and companies that they consider undesirable for one reason or another. This undesirable may also lead to the imprisonment of individuals in Russia who have been in contact with unwanted forces for six years. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. This is considered by some to be russophobia. But it is a reality which today affects the Russian population and the Ukrainian population, but also the population living in Georgia, for example. I note that yesterday ten new hectares were taken by Russian military forces in Georgia. They were re-announced. The border was moved in Kareli. There is a creeping annexation of Georgian territory. Last year 105 villages were taken and Russian sovereignty was secured in oil pipelines. Five weeks ago two new villages were divided by this creeping annexation. This is not often seen in the Swedish media, but it is important to pay attention to this, because it is part of the same pattern, in how our large neighbour in the east acts. We hope, Mr President, that we will be able to talk and support the courageous Russian opponents, because they exist. Unfortunately, too many of them are now outside Russia's territory, because they are under severe threat if they are there. Nevertheless, there is little hope for a future in which Russia changes, gives real substance to human rights and stops threatening its environment. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal, including the two announcements and the rejection of reservations.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-751	Mr President, I would like to Respect for human rights should be self-evident. Most countries have signed the UN Convention on Human Rights, and virtually all countries in Europe have signed the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Despite this, serious violations of human rights around the world are taking place at this time and every day. Unfortunately, there is no time to go into all areas and countries, but I have chosen to focus on three of the countries involved in the report, namely China, Russia and Nigeria. One of the countries where the situation is very serious is China, as the committee states in its report. Opinion, opinion, pressure, association, meeting, demonstration and religious freedom are severely restricted. The legal system and legal certainty are very flawed. Free trade unions are banned, and there is no protection for the right to strike. The ability of both domestic and foreign organisations to operate has been severely restricted by new legislation; China is the country in the world that executes the most people. According to Amnesty International's estimates, approximately 10,000 people were executed in 2015, which is an extremely high figure. The committee rightly notes that the death penalty is a violation of the most fundamental human rights and constitutes an inhuman, cruel and irreversible punishment that has no place in a modern legal order. It is good that the Swedish Government is working towards a global abolition of the death penalty and that it is a priority in Sweden's foreign policy. There is reason to wonder how China can be the world's largest market for human organ transplantation without a functioning system for this. According to the organization Supporting Human Rights in China, there are testimonies about how organs have been stolen from prisoners of conscience, mainly practitioners of falungong but also from others. This is also confirmed by the independent report published by Canadian lawyer David Matas and human rights activist David Kilgour. This is an issue that needs to be investigated much better and which has received too little attention from the outside world. Against this background, it is of great importance that Sweden intensifys its pressure both bilaterally and internationally with the aim of ensuring that China respects fundamental human rights in all areas. When the African Union, the AU, declared 2016 to be the Year of Human Rights in Africa, it sparked hopes in both Africa and the world around it. While conflicts, political instability and poverty prevent many from enjoying their rights and living a dignified life, the opportunities in Africa are great. The socio-economic development is evident in many countries and significant progress has been made in a number of areas. But the challenges are still great. The report addresses Nigeria and points out, among other things, how the terrorist group Boko Haram has exposed the civilian population to terror, rape, murder and kidnapping to a large extent. But also neighbouring countries such as Cameroon and the Central African Republic have been severely affected by the terror. Nor must we forget the crimes committed by al-Shabab in Somalia and Kenya in particular. In Nigeria alone, more than 2 million have been forced to leave their homes since 2009. Hundreds of thousands of refugees from Nigeria and the Central African Republic live in difficult conditions in overcrowded camps in Cameroon and Niger. But the government forces have also been guilty of gross abuse, as confirmed by Amnesty International's report. The committee highlights the importance of combating impunity and notes that the International Criminal Court, the ICC, has launched a preliminary investigation into possible crimes against humanity and war crimes that may have been carried out by Boko Haram or Nigerian security forces. It is a work that there is every reason to follow closely. The committee also points out the importance of aid efforts in Nigeria to reduce poverty in the country, thereby countering radicalisation and religious extremism, and to ensure that the country's oil income is used more effectively for development efforts. The Left also believes that multinationals must shoulder their responsibilities in order to ensure that a greater proportion of the oil revenue comes to the Nigerians and that the widespread pollution and corruption cease. We also see with great concern how Russia continues to violate human rights in a variety of areas. Particularly worrying are discrimination and violence against LGBT people, but also discrimination against national minorities such as the Crimean Tatars. The right to freedom of expression and assembly is very limited. The authorities dominate printed media as well as radio and television and have further increased control over the internet. Voluntary organisations have been subjected to harassment and reprisals. A growing number of people have been arrested and prosecuted for criticising the state and for possessing material considered extremist or otherwise illegal under vague national security legislation. The Left Party shares the committee's concern that in December 2015 Russia adopted a new law which gives the Russian Constitutional Court the right to establish that decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and other international courts are impracticable if it is judged to be contrary to the Russian Constitution. We agree that Sweden should be a strong voice for international courts and for international commitments and judgments to be respected. We fully share the committee's view that Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and military presence in eastern Ukraine constitute flagrant violations of international law. We also support a continued consistent policy of sanctions against Russia as long as the annexation and military presence in eastern Ukraine continue. It is of the utmost importance that Sweden, in its relations with Russia, promotes and supports democratic values and respect for human rights and recalls that Russia has also supported them as a member of the Council of Europe. We agree that it is important that Sweden clearly marks towards an increasingly authoritarian regime in the Kremlin and, at the same time, deepens relations with citizens and civil society in Russia in order to defend, uphold and improve human rights. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-767	Mr President, I would like to In May, the exhibition The Word's Act at Kulturhuset opened only a few hundred metres from here. It was about ten artists and writers from all over the world who would highlight the value of freedom of expression in connection with the 250-year Swedish anniversary. It is quite easy to realise that we live in a country where freedom of expression is self-evident. But if we look globally, we see that it is few granted. In Venezuela, hundreds of newborn babies have died unnecessarily in recent months. Maternity care is handled just like the rest of the health care system. There's no food and no electricity there. The people are starving, the opposition is silenced and violence is so widespread that people do not dare to go outside homes anymore. There are reports of Venezuelan activists being washed in water and attacked and then having their genitals beaten with electric shocks. All this takes place in peacetime in a country rich in natural resources because the socialist experiment was again tested and failed. In Cuba too, people continue to be sacrificed on the altar of socialism. The oppression is severe. The country's problems are sometimes presented as some kind of conflict between the dictator Castro and the democratic USA, when it is in fact a conflict between Castro and the Cuban citizens that he has never had to vote in free and democratic elections. Mr President, I would like to Another farcelike election was held in Belarus in October. According to election observers, the votes were far from democratic. In Ukraine, more than 200 000 children are internally displaced. UNICEF has alerted that half a million children suffer psychologically and physically. Russia's war leaves large scars on an already vulnerable population. Last week Bahrain took a step closer to a total ban on opinion. The leaders of the al-Wefaq opposition group, who have been convicted of criticising the regime in their speeches, saw their prison time more than doubled in a court. Mr President, I would like to In the middle of the Horn of Africa is Somaliland, which until 1960 was a British protectorate. Then the country became an independent state and then became part of Somalia, and war broke out. Large refugee waves were created following bombings by the regime in Mogadishu. It has now been 25 years since Somaliland d declared its independence. We Liberals would like to congratulate ourselves on the good democratic development of an area that is otherwise bordered by dictatorship, terrorism and poverty. That is why we have chosen to make a special opinion, because we think that the majority of the committees has been far too nifty and weak to actually praise the enormous democratic example of success that Somaliland has been. I was an election observer in the first presidential elections that took place in 2003, and the ANC arranged a force. It was amazing to see in place. Sweden should work much harder to support the good democratic development on the ground. Anyone who has followed Assad's oil barrels bombings in Syria realizes that he will not shun any means when he oppresses the people of the country. At the same time, we are seeing Islamist terrorists in Daish persecuting and exposing the Christians of the Middle East to genocide. They have forced hundreds of thousands of Assyrians to flee the Nineves plain in Iraq. Their destruction of the Sankt Elias Monastery in Iraq and the Temple of Baal in the Syrian World Heritage city of Palmyra is a violation of our entire civilization. In Palestine, elections have not been held for more than a decade. Corruption is widespread, homosexual oppression, critical voices are silenced and the anti-Semitic violence propaganda flows without any response from those responsible. Women do not have the same rights as men. Yesterday there was another fear-stained act of terror in Tel Aviv, where three people were murdered in a market hall in the middle of the tourist quarter. Over the past year, we have also seen that many Chinese people in dictatorship China are getting worse. The Chinese Government has launched a campaign against human rights activists, human rights defenders, while the government's control over the internet, the media and universities has been greatly strengthened. Mr President, I would like to Today, Dawit Isaak spends her 5,373rd day in an Eritrean prison. The list I have mentioned is, of course, not exhaustive. But global democracy backs for the tenth year in a row. We Liberals want democracy to be the main objective of Swedish foreign policy. The least free countries are often also the poorest. The right to vote and to speak is particularly crucial for women. That is why a clear feminist foreign policy is needed. There is no difference between democracy and feminism here. Moreover, without free discussion, it is absolutely impossible to crush the conservative and patriarchal standards that hold back billions of girls and women worldwide. Girls denied education remain dependent on men. If women in poor countries are not even able to choose their legislators, there is rarely an investment in maternal care or sexual and reproductive rights. We also know that democratic countries are less likely to collapse, and there is less risk of them becoming a breeding ground for extremism. In countries that are democratized, Sweden has strong allies for the future. Here we Liberals are hard on the fact that aid must function both as a whip and as a carrot. States that implement democratic reforms in the right direction and reduce corruption should be rewarded through Swedish aid. However, for states that continue to commit violence against citizens' human rights, aid must be phased out much more clearly. I am therefore disappointed that the Socialist and environmental party government has been approaching, for example, Robert Mugabe's Zimbabwe recently and that Pierre Schori has been holding coffee ropes in the still communist dictatorship of Cuba as if it were 1968. It was wrong for the government to vote last autumn to freeze sanctions against Belarus. Lukasjenko is the last dictatorship in Europe. I sometimes wonder what kind of wishful thinking it is that makes Social Democrats, not least, year after year, continue to provide aid to corrupt states that do not change. It is quite undemanding aid on many fronts. Here we Liberals think that it must be absolutely self-evident that support for undemocratic countries must be fundamentally redeployed in the run-up to the 2018 elections. Speaking precisely of sanctions and demands, we are talking a great deal in this House about the threat that the Russian Federation poses to its neighbours. I did so myself in the debate on the Council of Europe just a few hours ago. I would also like to talk here about the physical and psychological abuse that the Russian Federation is inflicting on its own population. Since 2012, Russia has registered all political organisations that receive funding from abroad as foreign agents. They are also arbitrarily prosecuted for completely different crimes, such as having violated fire regulations or tax laws. At the same time, we know that electoral fraud has been widespread both within the executive and within the judiciary. Russia's problem is that politicians are cheating on the fragile seed of democracy that actually existed and to some extent still exists despite the harsh repression in the country. In 2013, the Russian Duma banned and complicated the situation of LGBTQ organisations. At the same time, we are seeing the homophobic rhetoric becoming more vulgar and the violence against homosexuals increasingly widespread. In 2013, new legislation was introduced against those who insult the feelings of religious people. In 2014, the Kremlin passed a law that tightens the penalties for extremism, but which in fact means making it more difficult for NGOs and activists. The situation of the human rights of Russian citizens is a difficult balance for Sweden, while our compassion and friendship with the Russian people, who thirst for democracy and freedom, need to be stronger than ever in these difficult times. Sweden as a state must be tough in all bilateral contacts and clear in its criticism of the authoritarian regime. Remember, courageous individuals are changing the world! Without Russian democrats, no Russian democracy will emerge. I am therefore pleased that a united committee supports the Liberals' motion to have a sharper policy towards Russia. The Center Party had also exercised on the same issue. When we sat in the alliance government a few years ago, our embassy in Havana opened an internet café for dissidents who wanted to take part in uncensored information. In addition to the American consulate's café, the café was one of few places where Cubans could actually communicate freely at that time. The Swedish Embassy in Minsk also became a meeting place for free forces in Belarusian society. We need more courageous freedom projects on this front to support people in dictatorships to think, think and believe freely. I hope that the Red-Green Government is prepared to earmark more aid to freedom activists on this front. Mr President, I would like to In the catalogue of the Cultural House's Act, Iraqi Sanctuary author Ashraf Atrachchi writes that Swedes are so used to thinking and saying what we want freedom of speech to have become a bit like the air we breathe – we just don't need to think about it anymore – but we must never take the free word for granted. Sweden, with its 250-year-old freedom of expression, needs to be a role model for people around the world. I agree. If we do not dare to stand up for democratic values, then who will?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-800	Mr President, I would like to Birgitta Ohlsson's great commitment to Somaliland cannot be mistaken. All respect for that! Like Birgitta Ohlsson, I have been there to visit and pushed the question in different ways. I have also seen that Birgitta Ohlsson had an interpellation debate – it was quite a long time ago, but still – with Minister Laila Freivalds at the time that Sweden should be a pioneer in the matter, push for the courage to take a stand for recognition of Somaliland and pursue this within the international community. I therefore wonder: now that the issue of an announcement to the government to recognise Somaliland and pursue this in other contexts is on the table – why does Birgitta Ohlsson not support this? Why does Birgitta Ohlsson intend to vote against an announcement to recognise Somaliland as an independent state? There is a great deal of commitment and support for Somaliland. I understand that it is very important for those who live there and have taken part in the search for success in the region to get recognition from another country – and from one country in Europe. People I've been in contact with say it would mean a lot to them. I wonder why Birgitta Ohlsson does not support it?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-803	Mr President, I would like to After 13 years of being quite alone in this Parliament and this House in paying attention to the fate of Somaliland, I think it is a good thing that there are now more politicians and parties who do. Recently, a seminar was held here in the Swedish Parliament by the Moderate Member of Parliament, an Amir Adan, and there we mentioned, among other things, that we should perhaps arrange a cross-political study trip with several different parties to make sure that more people discover this oasis of democracy. As I mentioned earlier, I visited the country for the first time in 2003, when I was an election observer in the first presidential elections, which were internationally judged to have a very high level. I also returned to the country in 2006. In the meantime, the Liberals, as the only Swedish party, have tried to support democracy very concretely and practically. In fact, the first women to be elected to the Somali Parliament were those who, among other things, I have been involved in training. Although Somaliland is not a recognised nation, I also accepted Somali ministers and representatives as EU ministers when they visited Sweden. I think you should be aware of one thing. I am very much in favour of Somaliland getting its hot long-awaited freedom, but it is not a trip that will go overnight but a political perspective that must be built up. I would also like to emphasise that there are many other political issues that have been involved in this debate and which we Liberals can agree with. Sometimes there aren't even movements in those fields; sometimes you don't cover everything. What we have done, however, is to make a clear specific statement: if Somaliland is to become a recognised nation, which I believe will happen in the future, one must have a political strategy and a way forward. It is not just a matter of proclaiming a nation overnight. The other year, the red-green government announced that Palestine would be recognised and independent. It was believed that many countries in Europe would follow, but not even Social Democratic governments in Europe have. That's the idea I think you have to get with you.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-807	Mr President, I would like to No, of course, progress does not go overnight. As far as the recognition of Palestine is concerned, we do not support it, particularly in view of the shortcomings Birgitta Ohlsson made. These include anti-Semitic propaganda, the lack of elections and so on. We are therefore in complete agreement on this issue. I think it is absolutely vital to support Somaliland through aid and various efforts to promote the country's development. We would like to be involved in supporting such initiatives if there were to be such motions from the Liberals – or perhaps that we put forward proposals on this in our development policy. But one doesn't have to rule out the other. If Sweden went out and recognised Somaliland, it would be a great recognition for the country, and it might also boost more countries in Europe. As things stand today, I think that the country deserves recognition even now, after all the efforts it has made. Compared to other countries and areas that may have received recognition, I think that Somaliland definitely deserves recognition today. I would like to ask again why Birgitta Ohlsson cannot support such an announcement to the government.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-810	Mr President, I would like to There is always a political reality that we must take into account in our day-to-day work; I can relate that to not least from my five years as a minister. Many of us are passionate friends that even the Sahrawi people will have their freedom and independence in the future. It will not happen by individual countries proclaiming their independence, but it will happen by having a UN track coming up again – and, above all, by ensuring that the Sahrawi people have a referendum on their future. We need to strengthen that very quickly. If we now wish Somaliland to be recognised and independent, as I believe we both do, we should, as a first step, ensure that the Red Green Government lifts the travel recommendations. Cities like Hargeisa and Berbera are very safe; the U.S. State Department appointed the capital Hargeisa as Africa's safest capital a few years ago. It is absolutely horrifying and unfair that these cities still face the same harsh demands as the rest of Somalia when the Ministry for Foreign Affairs issues travel recommendations. I am deeply disappointed by Mrs Wallström and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs that, when I have pressed, these travel recommendations have not been made easy. This means that Swedish and European companies do not want to get there and invest. We Liberals have also clearly pushed that Sweden should set up a state aid office on the ground in Hargeisa. There are several countries that have this up and that would be a clear sign on the road to recognition. A question I submitted to the Minister for Development recently was that Sweden, which is one of the largest donors to Somalia, should actually press for Somalia to take into account the good democratic process in Somaliland – and not sabotage it, as is very often done. So we should make conditions and press for much more clearly. Concrete policies are moving in the right direction, that is, towards recognition in the future.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-815	Mr President, I would like to The Christian-Democratic ideology puts human dignity at the centre, that each individual has one and the same and inviolable value. If we are to get anywhere together with our efforts to eradicate poverty and oppression, we must have human dignity as our starting point. Apartheid in South Africa would be an unthinkable concept if the whites of South Africa had wanted to take it upon themselves that human dignity has nothing to do with skin color. Musev e du in Uganda had never deprived homosexuals of their human dignity. The Islamic State had never been able to murder because of religious or ethnic affiliation. Yes, the list can be made long – the list of serious violations of human rights and freedoms in our world. But the fight for human rights and freedoms is no longer as self-evident. We saw this in the negotiations on the UN's new sustainable development goals. We see this in the context of cooperation in the European Union, where countries that are loudly standing up for human rights seem to be getting fewer and fewer. In the light of this, it is so extremely important that Sweden does not fail. It is important that Sweden does not betray the citizens of Cuba. The Cuban people live under oppression that is not far behind their police state. This must not fall into the shadow of Cuba and the United States coming closer to each other after more than 50 years of intense word war. Increased trade and that it will be possible for more personal contacts is good. The Cuban regime acts under the gallows. The already strained and mismanaged economy ends up in free cases when the price of Venezuelan oil, which has long held Castro under its arms, has fallen dramatically. The same pattern could be seen when the Soviet bloc collapsed and Cuba was threatened by acute famine. Economic reforms were carried out, small businesses were allowed and a special currency for tourists and exiles was introduced linked to the dollar. But oppression persisted. The Internet is currently only available to a few and is strictly controlled in Cuba. Television, radio and newspapers are also controlled by the regime, and any attempt to create an association outside the umbrella of the Communists is opposed by the secret police. It doesn't matter whether it's about lending books from your own bookshelf to your neighbors, starting a study circle or an independent association for journalists. Anyone who opposes the current political and economic system is put under massive social pressure by block-based political commissioners. The EU has concluded an agreement with Cuba. The EU External Action Service states that the agreement will contribute to the promotion of democracy and human rights. But closed negotiations and hidden documents rarely promote human rights. A development cooperation strategy with Cuba is currently being prepared within the Government Office, which must have the aim of contributing to democracy and human rights in Cuba. Its design must involve those concerned, that is, those who are fighting daily for real change on the island. Under the alliance government, Sweden belonged to those countries within the EU that pushed too hard demands for democracy and human rights in Cuba. But the relationship of strength within the EU seems to have changed. Unfortunately, standing up for human rights is not as central when EU Member States negotiate with dictatorships. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Christian Democrats' motion on the human rights situation in Cuba has been heard in committee and that we are now sending a clear signal to the government through an announcement. It is a clear signal that the Swedish Government must ensure that there are tough demands for democratisation and human rights in Cuba and that dialogue and processes always take place with active participation from Cuba's political opposition and democracy advocates. In this report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs deals with motions on the human rights situation in a number of countries. I am happy to sit in a parliament that is so committed to human rights and freedoms. Of course, Russia's foreign and security policy is concerned. The committee is clear that the relationship between the EU and Sweden with Russia must be principled and consistent. International law and the European security regime must be respected and protected. In February 2015, opposition politician Boris Nemtsov was murdered. The committee calls on Russia to conduct an independent investigation and to judge those responsible. Furthermore, we call on Russia to take steps to protect opponents and independent critics, and journalists must be able to do their work. The attack on Sweden's Radio correspondent a few months ago is deeply worrying. Mr President, I would like to China has for some time reduced the room for manoeuvre for dissidents. This applies not least to domestic lawyers who work under Chinese law to exploit and protect the human rights of citizens. Swedish Peter Dahlin, who is now released, trained and supported Chinese lawyers and was accused of forming an illegal organization that spread distorted information. Dahlin appeared on Chinese television, in which he apologized for harming China and for hurting the feelings of the Chinese population. But Peter Dahlin is not the only Swedish citizen who has recently been forced to parade in Chinese state television. The bookshop Gui Minhai has also been forced to do so. Minhai was abducted in October last year and remains in custody. It is of the utmost importance that the government actively works on this matter. In Myanmar, the reform agenda has changed the human rights situation. Over a hundred former political prisoners are now in government or in parliament. I'm glad to hear that. At the same time, however, the repression of Muslims, civil society activists and others who promote the rights of persons belonging to minorities continues. Especially vulnerable are the Rohingya people who are deeply discriminated against. In many lands Christians are a particularly vulnerable minority. The presentation by Open Door of its annual survey of the situation of the world's Christians showed that persecution is increasing in all parts of the world. As in recent years, North Korea is peaking as the country where the persecution of Christians is at its worst. But several other countries are now approaching alarmingly fast. The most alarming developments are taking place in the Middle East and in sub-Saharan countries – the genocide of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, the barbaric progress of Boko Haram in Nigeria and al-Shababs in Kenya. In Pakistan, Easter families and children were murdered in the city of Lahore. According to the group who assumed responsibility for this wicked act of terror, the goal was to kill as many Christians as possible. The freedom of religion is owned by every individual. It is being violated today in too many countries. Restrictions on this freedom must be recognised and condemned – and above all combated. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to thank myself and call on my fellow Members of Parliament never to remain silent when human rights and freedoms are trampled on.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-836	Mr President, I would like to We will now debate the views and opinions of the Parliament's Transport Committee on the European Aviation Strategy. It is not really a decision but more a communication on how Parliament views the work on the European aviation strategy. Let me begin by saying that a common international and European approach to aviation is absolutely essential. If the European aviation industry and airlines are to be competitive and if we are to minimise the negative environmental impact of aviation, we need a common strategy and a common policy. Against this background, it is gratifying that we agree on so much of the views expressed in the opinion. With a European aviation strategy together with a Swedish aviation strategy, which is now on the way forward, we can focus on the elements that are important for a development that promotes healthy competition and high mobility and takes responsibility for climate impact. In this context, I would like to point out a couple of issues that are important in the European Aviation Strategy. One is the question of social conditions, where we need to work even more intensively to counter regulation shopping and wage dumping. This appears in the wording and initiatives of the Commission in the first proposals for a European Aviation Strategy. We'd like to go a little further, but that's a good start. It is very important to ensure that we constantly have questions about social conditions with when discussing developments in aviation. The implementation of Single European Sky is, of course, crucial for efficiency and also for reducing the negative climate impact of aviation. It must be given a much higher priority in the EU than it currently has. EU Member States are welcome to look at Sweden's work with Denmark on our Single Sky. In addition to the issues raised by the European Commission, there are issues where the EU probably needs to have a little more insight into the circumstances of individual Member States, especially in the transport policy conditions that we have in Sweden. I am thinking of regional airports. There are good wordings here in the committee's opinion. It is important that we get an understanding of our special geographical location and our special structure in Sweden, which is a large country with long distances and relatively sparsely populated. This means that there are quite a few airports that, unfortunately, cannot carry themselves financially but are a prerequisite for us to have good transport opportunities throughout the country. When we see how the EU is now reviewing airport after airport and allowing many airports to live in uncertainty as to whether or not they are allowed to continue operating, it is a circumstance that makes it difficult for us to ensure that we have good communication opportunities throughout the country. We must continue this work and continue to inform the European Commission of our preconditions. We discussed this issue in plenary in connection with the aviation report. Some questions then emerged as to whether we should reorganise our regional airports in order to be able to get under the EU radar more easily, if I may put it that way. I have not taken a stand, and it is very possible that other forms of organisation can be considered for the Swedish regional airports. I believe, however, that we need to get an understanding of our conditions. I do not believe that, in the long run, it is a sustainable way of reorganising in order to be able to operate the air traffic we need. We agree on these issues, and they are well described in the opinion. But then this statement begins to make no sense. The fact that we Social Democrats have a reservation is not in itself incomprehensible. That is why I am somewhat amazed at this reservation. Our reservation is based on the view of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats that the EU aviation strategy should also deal with questions about Bromma and air tax. It is very strange to me that one moment we are discussing the lack of understanding of the European Union for the airports we have in Sweden and the next we want to involve the issue of whether or not Bromma is going to develop in the European aviation strategy. I would like both representatives of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats to respond to how Bromma belongs in a European aviation strategy. It is, in fact, a European aviation strategy and its views on what we are dealing with, and in this context the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats are putting the Bromma issue in. The same applies to the airline tax. There is an ongoing investigation into the introduction of airline tax in Sweden. I think this is a national decision. If we come to the conclusion that we shall have a flight tax in Sweden, we shall decide that we shall have a flight tax. If we come to the conclusion that we should not have a flight tax, we must decide that we should not have a flight tax. I do not understand why the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats want to involve air tax in the European aviation strategy. In the past, I have received clear signals that it does not want the European Union to deal with these issues but that they should be dealt with on the national stage. Then I do not understand why people want to bring them in and want the government to raise these issues in Europe. Mr President, I would like to I hope for clear answers from the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats on this issue during the debate.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-855	Mr President, I would like to The European Commission has presented a Communication containing a number of proposals to make the EU aviation sector more competitive. In the Middle East and large parts of Asia, the aviation sector is growing explosively. Without action, Europe risks losing the lead position that we have taken for a long time for granted – if nothing drastic happens. Against this background, it is both good and necessary for the EU to develop an aviation strategy to meet the challenges of the future in aviation. The flight has changed the life of our planet. At the start of the flight, few were able to make use of this marvelous means of transport and visit other parts of our world. A few generations ago, in our country, which is a very rich country, charter travel began to be possible, and places were discovered in Spain and Greece. I know this because my grandmother and grandpa were among the first generation to experience it. They came from very poor conditions and experienced other parts of the world. It was a fantastic development. But it was still expensive, and you didn't fly domestic. Air travel in Europe consisted mainly of state monopolies with high fares and few passengers. It was a natural part of this monopoly market. Then came liberalisation and competition. Ticket prices were lower, and more people were given the opportunity to fly both within the country and to other countries. When the low-cost companies arrived, they continued to lower the prices of already cheap journeys. It is not uncommon today that it is more expensive to travel to and from the airports in Sweden and in Europe than it is to travel several hundred kilometres between the different airports. It is a fantastic development that means that more and more people have the opportunity to take part in what is around our world. But this fundamentally positive development also poses some political challenges at its head. As more and more people fly, it is of course even more important that we take environmental challenges very seriously with better fuel and environmental work. Some companies challenge the rights of passengers or the working conditions of those working in aviation. There are countries, particularly outside Europe, which support their airlines in such a way that competition on equal terms is not a natural part of the world market. The political task is to continue to enable increased air travel at affordable prices for all people. We're not supposed to fly any less but more environmentally friendly. Low fares mean that more people can afford to travel, and it should be protected. At the same time, passenger rights must be guaranteed and decent working conditions safeguarded for all those working in aviation. The aircraft must continue to develop the already high safety that characterises it. Everyone who flies should be able to feel safe. It is a good thing that the European Union wants to take the lead in the work of safeguarding aviation. Europe is a small, shrinking part of the total world market. Even in the field of aviation, Europe is becoming a smaller part. I am pleased that there is a clear majority in the Swedish Parliament for a good and forward-looking aviation policy that takes responsibility for all these elements. However, I would have liked the support to be greater and for the red-green parties to support this as well. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Mr President, I would like to I would particularly like to highlight four parts of what the committee has spoken about. There have been some announcements since before, but it may be good to repeat what the majority of Parliament thinks about the various issues in aviation policy. This government lacks support in the Swedish parliament for its anti-aircraft policy. As far as air tax is concerned, there is no majority in Parliament to go that way. Instead, the majority agree that a flight tax damages Sweden's competitiveness and makes it more expensive for ordinary people to travel. The socio-economic consequences of a flight tax are devastating, and the environmental benefits are practically non-existent. Denmark and the Netherlands have tried this route, but they have gone back because it is not going to be good. The environment does not win anything, and there will be reduced travel and socio-economic costs. Mr President, I would like to Rikard Larsson of the Social Democrats referred to regional airports. It is important that we from the Swedish side say that it should look as it does today. Sweden is an elongated country on the outskirts of Europe. We are one of the world's most trade-dependent countries. Few other countries are so dependent on being able to transport quickly within and outside the country. To impose a flight tax on this is to impair Swedish competitiveness, which is not good. It is good that the government knows that there is no support for this in Parliament. As far as EU state aid rules are concerned, they should be seen in the light of all this. Sweden looks different from the vast majority of countries around Europe. We have a greater distance to bridge and therefore a greater need for airports. It is important that we send that signal to Europe. As far as Bromma airport is concerned, it should be seen in exactly the same light. We have a majority in the Riksdag not only to keep Bromma airport but also to develop it. Time and again this has been challenged by the government, and that is not good. Then it is good that the signal goes back to the government that Bromma airport has strong support in the Swedish parliament and the population. There is no way for the government to close down the airport. There is a need for reserve capacity in Stockholm in case something happens to Arlanda, but we also need to cope with high traffic with times to land both in the morning, in the afternoon and in the evening. As far as biofuels are concerned, the majority of Parliament has said that we want to see more of it. With the technology available today, biofuels can reduce CO2 emissions by 80% compared to the usual jet fuel. It's a shame the government isn't on that trip. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that there is a clear majority in the Swedish Parliament for a good, modern and future-oriented aviation policy. I regret that today we have a government that can almost be described as anti-aircraft and that repeatedly, in the area by area of aviation policy, challenges the majority of Parliament. With this approval, I would like to ask the Committee on Transport to approve the current proposal for a decision.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-877	Mr President, I would like to It is good, Edward Riedl, to repeat the same message time and again, because then it will be easier for those who listen. But it is also good, Edward Riedl, if you look at what the matter is about before you write your speech. This is not a matter of how Swedish aviation policy should be designed, but is a matter of the European Aviation Strategy. In my earlier speech, I asked questions. I understand that you did not have the space to answer them in your own speech, but now I ask again, for safety's sake: do you hear the question of Bromma at home in a European aviation strategy? That was the first question. The second question is: Should the EU decide to a greater extent on Swedish taxes?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-879	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear first. It's very easy to get misconceptions when you talk about things that sound alike. We are debating the EU aviation strategy – the strategy that Europe's Member States have come together to push forward because they want to develop aviation. This concerns the competitiveness of European aviation in a global context. It must not be confused with the anti-aircraft government we have in Sweden, which is also working on an aviation strategy. It's about how we're going to make it harder and more expensive for ordinary people to travel. Let us not confuse these two things. That's where Rikard and I are in complete agreement. It's good if we can keep them apart. Mr President, I would like to It's good to repeat the message, says Rikard Larsson. It is, because the government has been almost tone-deaf in what the Riksdag says about the various parts of this. It has been almost tone deaf when it comes to what the parliamentary majority thinks about Bromma airport and about the flight in general. That is why proposals and requests are made for the closure of airports, the introduction of air taxes and so on. It is an anti-aircraft policy, Rikard Larsson, nothing else. As far as the other parts are concerned, I have full respect for the fact that Rikard Larsson, the Social Democrats and the anti-aircraft alliance in this Parliament do not like that a parliamentary majority has different opinions from the government. But this is the highest decision-making body in Sweden that tells the government what it ultimately has a mandate to do or not. Rikard Larsson does not have a majority in parliament for that policy, Mr President. Time is not enough, but I will answer the questions about Bromma airport and whether I think the EU should decide on Swedish taxes. I don't think so, but I'll get back to that in my second line.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-884	Mr President, I would like to These were two concrete issues. It's a little funny that Edward Riedl didn't have time to answer those very questions. These were the only two questions that were asked, and Edward Riedl did not have time to answer them. It is good that we agree that a Swedish aviation strategy and aviation policy is one thing. It's a decision, and we own it ourselves. A European aviation strategy is another. In his speech, Edward Riedl spoke about the benefits of aviation. We see these advantages as well. We have a government that has sent money to airports, which has set up an investigation to look at how to develop Arlanda Airport and make it even stronger and that looks at how to better get to airports with public transport, because airports have an important role to play. I understand that Edward Riedl is speaking to people other than those in this House, but if we concentrate on them for a moment, I would like to ask once again the question: does the question of Bromma hear at home in a European aviation strategy? That is what we are discussing here today. Should the EU decide more about Swedish taxes? These are the signals to Europe that we are sending today.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-888	Mr President, I would like to My ambition was, of course, never but to answer the two questions that Rikard Larsson had. I also said that in my first speech that I intended to do so. It's about Swedish entry values. It is about the Swedish Parliament telling the government, which is basically anti-aircraft, what it will ultimately have for a mandate when you go down and negotiate the EU aviation strategy. We fully agree on that. On the first issue, both regional airports and Bromma airport, which are a very important element in the area of regional airports, are of central importance when we are down negotiating in the EU and developing the next aviation strategy. I'll explain why to Rikard Larsson. The government failed in the negotiations, so now the possibility for regional airports around Sweden to receive public support is threatened. It is a threat that the government has created through poor negotiation. The former Minister for Infrastructure, who was a party colleague of mine, said: Never in life will any airport have to suffer this. This has not been maintained by the government, and airports are now under threat throughout our country. It is therefore important that we send the signal both to the government and to the EU that we want airports throughout Sweden. That is why this is included, and therefore a majority of the Swedish Parliament thinks it is right and reasonable to include it in the documents. With regard to the second part, taxes, the EU should not, of course, decide on them. But it is reasonable, once again, that when we discuss aviation strategy we send with the input values we think are right and reasonable. Mr President, I would like to Everyone in aviation thinks that this is the wrong way to introduce an aviation tax that not only hampers Swedish growth but also risks destroying global environmental work and emissions trading. It would be a great pity if the government were to sabotage global environmental negotiations.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-895	Mr President, I would like to Actually, this should be easy. I had intended to go up on the whole and support the committee's proposal in its opinion and reject the reservations. But Rikard Larsson challenges us as much as he can. I first read your reservation text with some merriment. I thought, "Are they trying to be funny?" Are they a bit magsura, or is it some sort of rhinestones philosophy that it's all about? This mention of the Swedish situation, as is apparent from the current majority text of the statement, is new. In the first preparation, it was your person. There was talk of air tax, and there the government was hailed for this air tax. It is now removed by the majority. So we're just as good a cabbage drinker in that case. I think the discussion is getting a little silly. You ask, does Bromma hear this? Do regional airports belong here? Bromma is in Europe. That's the only thing I can dismiss. We have had enough trouble with Bromma because of you and – as I said the last time we discussed flights – especially with the anti-aircraft element you have in your government. I don't know how much you're going to sacrifice on that altar. It's up to you; it's none of my business. I would think, however, that you, like me, have read about the Association of Swedish Flyg. 98 politicians and entrepreneurs in Norrbotten and Västerbotten have written a joint debate article against the government's proposal for a flight tax. It's convenient. We await the government's own aviation strategy, but also Europe's dealings with Sweden, of course. We are still a country within the EU. There is an exemplary writing in committee on regional airports. The issue has been taken seriously, and I hope that we will at least agree on this. Then, as we did last time, we can always have a discussion on how airports should be financed so that not only the municipalities should be burdened with this or so that it does not even lead to closures. But then there should be no flight tax that causes purely counterproductive misery for aviation, for it is just the same thing it does. There have also been a dozen councillors in the north, all the Social Democrats, noted. I wonder what's going on with your contacts. But I understand that the small party you have with you in the government has an unhemly influence on the issues. Since I'm on the Transport Committee, I hear how it sounds from there. Otherwise, I can only agree with previous speakers: the ambitions of the European Union are very good. The question is whether and when they can do it. It remains to be seen. I will conclude by once again calling for the majority's proposal to be approved in the committee's opinion and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-903	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Motivation Reserve 2. Climate targets require us to steer our journeys towards more sustainable alternatives. Unfortunately, the aviation strategy that is now being developed within the EU aims to increase flying. Air travel in Asia is estimated to increase faster than in any other region by 2034 and will then account for 40% of world aviation. In 2023, China is expected to be the world's largest aviation nation. The air transport agreements that have been signed between the EU and the Western Balkans, Morocco and the United States show strong increases in passenger numbers. Now the Commission will request a mandate to negotiate global aviation agreements with new nations such as China, ASEAN, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Mexico and Armenia, as well as bilateral agreements with China and Japan. All of this is likely to lead, as in the past, to an even greater increase in aviation. We live in climate times with huge floods in Germany, France and Switzerland, large forest fires here at home and more and more and stronger weather events that create enormous problems for people. Then we must take climate responsibility. This is it. In France, about 10 000 people have now been evacuated. We see a huge impact on our society as a result of these climate changes. And this is just the beginning, if we don't steer over. It is therefore important to realise that these agreements cannot be based on an unstoppable increase in air travel. Other, more sustainable, modes of transport such as trains and shipping must be expanded as much as possible. I admit that in an elongated and sparsely populated country like Sweden it is important that we can travel and move. We must make society stick together, and we must, for example, be able to participate and be active in meetings to the south, even if we live in Norrland and vice versa. Nevertheless, it is important that we work in every way we can to promote night trains and the extension of trains and other possible means of transport that can replace flights as soon as possible. This is the Swedish direction we need to see, but we also need the same direction throughout the European Union. This is not reflected in the European Aviation Strategy. It is positive that we are talking about making routes more efficient and flying shorter distances and that there is a synchronised coordination so that traffic in the air is not delayed. But it is not sustainable to assume such a large increase in air travel. This is not the road we should take in the transport area as a whole if we want a planet to live on for our children. We need to think as climate-efficiently as we can in all directions. It is important that the aviation strategy focuses on the social agenda – ensuring fair working conditions in the sector. But it needs to be done even better, and we need to strengthen the focus. We are seeing developments in the field of work in the aviation sector with much deteriorating conditions for both pilots and cabin crews. It is fully in line with the agenda that EU membership has led to. It is to benefit companies. What we are seeing in this labour market is fully in line with the fact that the greatest cost for many companies is the work effort. There is therefore a strong incentive for companies to push the margins as much as possible. If there are no counter-forces and if you constantly put free enterprise and business interests first, you will end up right where we are now. This applies to both the haulage industry, the aviation industry and the taxi industry and a wide range of other industries within the area of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. The same is true: labour margins have been pushed to the extreme. Here we need a healthier balance; we cannot tear people out in this way. We must have an economy based on man and not on corporate greed, which we have allowed to grow very strongly in these neoliberalally influenced years. It's time to reverse the trend. I hope that culture will turn around in all camps so that we control and regulate the industries again and again put people and the environment first. There's really nothing else that makes sense if you think about it. We must, of course, have a functioning business life, but there must be a good balance. Regional airports in Sweden are needed today to facilitate travel in different parts of the country. This is because we have not expanded the railways and so on as much as would be needed. But Bromma airport is not needed in this region. Arlanda has capacity. As it is mentioned in the bourgeois report, we in the Left Party once again mark that we want Bromma airport to be dismantled and that a gradual shift of traffic takes place to other modes of transport and other airports in the region – this also in order to build more. We need land to build on. I would like to conclude by saying that if we are to achieve the objective of avoiding a temperature rise of one and a half degrees, we need to increase our ambitions in all areas of transport. We cannot agree that emissions continue to increase in each area. Here the flight needs to do its thing, and then a climate tax on the aircraft will be very important. It must be the polluter who pays. It is something that all parties in the Riksdag say that you sign, but when it comes down to it you do not dare to go that way. But it must be the case that what releases the most must cost more, because we are controlled a lot by the wallet. We simply have to make it easy to save the planet.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-914	Mr President, I would like to Let me first give a brief factual information to those who are listening to this debate. The EU aviation strategy aims to bring the social conditions of aviation into line. We from the Alliance and also the Social Democrats – I heard Rikard Larsson earlier – fully agree that it is important that this work takes place. You can get a different view when listening to Emma Wallrup, Mr President, but the EU wants to work on the social conditions and make sure that they become the best conditions in the labour market in this area too. Then I would like to ask Emma Wallrup two questions, Mr President. One is about biofuels. A majority of this Parliament voted for a proposal on biofuels voted against by the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. With biofuels available today, carbon dioxide emissions can be reduced by 80% compared to conventional jet fuels. Why did Emma Wallrup and the Left Party have reservations about protecting the environment when it comes to aviation, as they say? Why are we opposed to the further development of biofuels? So Sweden is at the forefront of the world, and it would be fantastic if we could both create Swedish jobs and protect the environment? The second question I would like to ask Emma Wallrup and the Left Party is: Does the Left Party want us to fly more or less in Sweden?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-918	Mr President, I would like to I agree that the social conditions are being addressed by the European Commission, but that is not enough. The writings are a little too weak, and we would like to strengthen them. It says a little vaguely that it is important and that you should work with this under the right conditions. We would like to strengthen it a little further. About the same wording that I have in my reservation is included in the Social Democrats' and the Green Party's reservation, so that is something that we have managed to get through in committee. You have also been in favour of this line, and I think that is a good thing. It is good that more people realise that we cannot continue along this path where the labour market and workers have been ironed out by profit interests. Now we need a healthier balance where everyone is well. As far as biofuels are concerned, you are putting the biofuels strategy against the aviation tax. We don't want to do that. However, we want to look at biofuels, but we cannot rely on a biofuel strategy. When you talk to researchers from KTH, for example, they state very clearly that the forest is not enough. So we do not have enough raw materials and we do not have the prospect of biofuels being able to replace fossil fuels in aviation. On the other hand, it is now under discussion in the Environmental Objectives Committee to have a quota obligation that involves the incorporation of more and more biofuels. It is more functional, and that line will definitely support the Left Party, because it is very important to reduce emissions as much as possible.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-922	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to say briefly that if you look at biofuels, there will be no new jobs in Sweden in an area where Sweden is at the absolute forefront of the world. This could provide many new jobs in an area that both has the positive effect of improving the environment when we fly and is an area where Sweden is far ahead and can create new jobs. If you look at biofuels, nothing happens. That is why a majority of this Parliament, where the three Red-Green parties chose to stand by, wanted us to move on with this. If you look at biofuels, there will also be no less emissions. You actually have to do something if you want to bring about real change. I hear fine words from Emma Wallrup about how much she cares about the environment, and I have no doubt about the commitment. But you can't just look at biofuels, you actually have to do something. There is a way of reducing carbon dioxide xid emissions in aviation by 80 percent. The reason why we are taxing aviation on biofuels is that that is exactly what the aviation market is doing. The collected Flygsverige says: If you put a flight tax on us, we will not be able to afford to reschedule, because you will remove all our margins. Therefore, aviation tax and biofuels are opposed to each other. You have to decide whether you dislike flying so badly that you leave it dirty or actually want to achieve environmental improvement measures for real. The last question Emma Wallrup chose not to answer. I hope she will do so in her next speech. Does the Left Party want us to fly more or less? I find that quite interesting, Mr President. Our position, on the side of the alliance parties, is that we do not need to fly less but that we should fly more environmentally friendly.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-929	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we will fly less and expand night trains and high-speed trains – or what we will land in when it comes to rail traffic – and other means of transport as much as possible. It is clear that we also want to look at – i.e. research into, develop and test – new technologies. In the case of biofuels, for example, consideration is given to the production of algae, because there could be opportunities there. But according to KTH, there is no such potential, and they do not expect this to be a total replacement for fossil fuels. It is likely that fuel cells or something else that is more energy efficient will be needed. It's really important to do as much research as possible. That, as Edward Riedl said in his speech, it is okay that it is cheaper to fly than to travel to the airport is unfortunate, I think. Our planet is swinging now. We are now seeing clearly the effects of climate change in France, Germany and Switzerland, and it is even worse in the countries of the South that far too little is reported in the media. These are serious things that are happening, and then flying is unreasonably cheap. It realizes almost every Swede I've spoken to. It is unreasonably cheap to fly and excessively high prices for train travel, for example. Aviation tax will simply be needed to manage to switch and to promote sustainable transport. But then it is also important that we invest in train traffic, that it is efficient to travel by train and that it is cost-effective.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-934	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, I saw the documentary Taxi Club. It is a film by Johan Palmberg with taxi driver Allonia Sebhatu in the lead role. The film depicts a struggle for human conditions in Sweden today in the taxi industry. It is an account of how people today are exploited in a way that was far behind us. You have to follow Allonia's union struggle but also how his struggle affected his private life and the relationship in the family. It is sorrow and despair but also joy. This is a film that is now shown with subsequent discussions and discussions, around o m in the country. The power of the film is found in the stories. These are stories that come close. With the film as a tool you can question and highlight, create debate and increased understanding, but you can also with the film create entertainment and excitement. A prerequisite for the film's power is an advanced collaboration between the different actors who create a film. Here, a government film policy has an important mission to create the right conditions for Swedish film to develop nationally and internationally. Swedish film is at the forefront. You win great prizes at various film festivals around the world. We can also be delighted by actors, directors and other professional categories who make careers outside Sweden in the film and media industry. Mr President, I would like to Today's report, which we are now going to debate, deals with the Government's proposal More film for more – a coherent film policy along with motions that have been raised in connection with the bill and motion requests from general exercise time. Since the 1960s, Swedish film policy has largely been governed and financed by a film agreement. It has been an agreement that has been made between the state and the film industry at different time intervals. Over the years, the film agreement has served the film well and has been a good construction. Unfortunately, however, the recent renegotiations have made it increasingly difficult to reach agreement, and the agreement has become more and more detailed. It has also been questioned by more and more people. That is why the former Minister for Culture, Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth, began during the last parliamentary term to look at a film policy without a film agreement. Talks were also initiated with the industry. Work has since continued under the current government. In June 2014, two parties submitted the agreement. It was the Network of Regional Film Production Centres and Film & TV Producer Centres. With this in mind, the government chose to terminate the agreement a year ago. They said they wanted to take a holistic approach to national film policy. Of the many consultation bodies that had previously responded to the proposal to leave the film agreement, 70 per cent were positive. The fact that it now becomes a whole-state film policy, which thus becomes fully part of cultural policy, is welcomed by many in the industry. Today's report includes an announcement by the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. They think there's a need for a new film investigation. This is in spite of the fact that, since the last parliamentary term, there has been extensive and solid investigation and analysis work involving representatives of the industry as well. This is remarkable. Or maybe it's more a proof that you yourself have no suggestions on how to strengthen Swedish film. The various players in the industry agree that they need foresight and long-termism. Setting up a new investigation would only create uncertainty. On the contrary, the Film Institute now needs, in collaboration with the industry, to be able to look forward and, on the basis of the framework provided by the policy, to develop forms of support for the future. Let me give you what some representatives of the industry are writing in today's Gothenburg-Post. It is the chairmen of the Theatre Federation, the Dramatic Federation and the Swedish Film Directors. Among other things, they write: To the proposal for further investigation, the answer is no. Further investigation means that Swedish film policy is losing momentum. That would be devastating. I agree with that. The issue has been investigated for a long time. Now let the new film policy come into force! A clear vision for Swedish film is proposed for the new film policy. That is something many have asked for. The vision is that Swedish film should have high quality and exhibit such a breadth and diversity of stories that it concerns everyone. Swedish film should be an obvious and accessible choice for the audience throughout the country and attractive internationally. Seven objectives are also proposed for film policy. The objectives are a further development of the direction of film policy laid down in the previous film policy bill in 2012. Some examples of this are that the government also clearly points out the role of film in strengthening freedom of expression. The importance of film being produced in different parts of Sweden is highlighted in particular as well as increased demands for accessibility to films that have received state support. One criticism that has been made of the current system is that there are, above all, a few market-dominating players involved in the decision-making process. This is changing now. The entire film industry will have influence over Swedish film. It is proposed to create three councils during the Swedish Film Institute. It is the Council for Development and Production, the Council for Dissemination and Demonstration and the Council for Film Culture. In the cultural sector as a whole, this is a matter of course, but in the film sector we have seen how fewer and fewer have been left to decide more and more. One problem which the industry has raised for a long time and which the previous bourgeois government did not lift a finger to solve is the illegal handling of film. This creates major economic consequences for the Swedish film industry. In today's report, a united committee supports an announcement by the Parliament to the Government that it will urgently make proposals for the further work on prosecuting the illegal circulation of films. The work that is taking place today in both the Departments of Culture and Justice is good, but more needs to be done to stop this development. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be an attractive country for recording and producing both Swedish and foreign films and television. We will have a film industry that creates both high-quality culture and high-productivity jobs. In some other European countries, various forms of incentives for film and television production have been introduced in recent years to attract foreign productions to their own country. In today's report, a united committee points out that it wants the Riksdag to instruct the government to investigate what a Swedish form of production incentives might look like for Swedish film. For us Social Democrats, it is important that politics takes a concerted approach to promote both the artistic values of Swedish cinema and its expansion and nutrition. We Social Democrats want the professional film production sector to have the best possible conditions for working and developing in Sweden. In many areas we are already at the forefront with talented creators and competent technical staff. The Swedish film industry is small, and joint efforts are necessary. Just as the Swedish model many times before has created the conditions for our common prosperity through collaboration between state and business, the symbiosis between the industry and politics is absolutely fundamental to the success of Swedish film. Film policy cannot become a reality without a viable industry. Sweden is at the forefront of regional investment in production and feature film. The share of the regions in the funding of Swedish feature films has increased tenfold since the mid-1990s, and today very few feature films are produced without regional funding. With financial investments conditional on the film being fully or partially recorded in the region, jobs are also created while the skills and infrastructure for film production are maintained and developed. State and regional aid and investment are thus becoming increasingly crucial for the future of Swedish cinema. There is great value in a variety of public actors with different goals and ambitions, but it is important that all public support and investment interact so that they jointly contribute to a well-functioning film production. Close interaction between the state and the regional level is therefore of great importance. Mr President, I would like to We have already seen an important difference in the new film policy. The content and role of film policy are being debated for more than a long time. More actors look forward to greater influence and active participation. It bodes well for the future of Swedish film. Mr President, I would like to I agree with all the Socialist reservations, but for time to come I only agree to reservation No 1.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-953	Mr President, I would like to More film for more – a coherent film policy, the government calls the bill that has finally been put on Parliament's table. The content of the bill is not consistent with the title. I would like to call the bill a smaller film to and in the country – at most a film production policy. ..................................................... Those of you who have listened to Gunilla Carlsson's speech could hear that she was constantly concerned with film production. The rest of the film policy was completely ignored. It is at most a film production policy that the government has presented. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, as well as the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, have worked on the dossier from the government and incorporated a large number of changes that have won the majority. Two amendments are fully agreed by the committee. I am very curious about how Alice Bah Kuhnke will respond to Gunilla Carlsson's demands for production incentives because she has said that one should not care about announcements from the Riksdag. And why has not what Gunilla Carlsson is talking about not been incorporated into the bill? Gunilla Carlsson has had a big impact on this. These are issues that we should be able to highlight in this debate. The Committee on Culture has chosen to name its report Prerequisites for Swedish film. Unlike the government, the majority of the Committee on Culture believes that Swedish films deserve better conditions than those proposed by the government. The fact that Swedish film needs better conditions is known for a long time. The Alliance government realised this and made sure that alternatives were worked out in investigations, as Gunilla Carlsson has said. But it wasn't enough. We needed to do more. That's why the department continued its work on producing data. When making changes, it is very important to take in several perspectives so that you do not throw out the baby with the bath water when presenting the changes. Swedish film in its different parts is very important. Minister for Culture Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth had a plan for the necessary changes that would strengthen Swedish film. A plan is important in a process of change – this to know what you want to achieve and to bring with you the necessary perspectives in the process of change. The government's management of film policy is more ad hoc-like. Let's start with the time when the film deal was terminated. Did any of the parties to the film agreement or anyone else know about it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In a debate article it was stated that the film agreement would indeed be terminated. When the Culture Committee called the minister to her, she did not even have a plan to publish the departmental spromemoria that existed at the department. The committee expressed its clear wish for publication and, finally, it did so. Furthermore, she had not even considered the possibility of deliberating with the Committee on Culture on the subject. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I will bear in mind what Erik Fichtelius said when he last visited the committee. He said, "The ministers who fail haven't worked with their committees." This is exactly how it is in this case. There has been no plan and no cooperation. Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Löfven wants his government to appear as the cooperation government. The actions of the Minister for Culture show a completely different picture. In the discussions we have put a lot of effort into, there has not been the slightest degree of change at all. The actions of the Minister for Culture and her staff have now been reflected in the report endorsed by the committee. The government has received seven announcements against it, of which both the Social Democrats and the Green Party are behind two. What does the Minister of Culture intend to do about them? In addition to the announcements made by the majority in this House, the Alliance has common reservations on eight points in the report. These reservations contain very important proposals for a uniform film policy that Swedish film so badly needs. These are proposals that we will continue to push even after this debate is concluded and we have come to a decision on this issue. Mr President, I would like to I will stop here and announce that the Moderates are behind all their reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 10. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report. Given that this parliamentary report is so different from what the government is proposing, it is strange that the Minister for Culture has called his bill for the most important cultural policy decisions of this parliamentary term. I believe that this could be the most important cultural policy decision of the parliamentary term, but in a completely different way from what the Minister for Culture had in mind from the outset. My colleagues in the alliance will make an impact on the report's comprehensive content, so I will go into some, but very important, issues for Swedish film. I will start with the question of what Swedish film is. It would be interesting to hear the Minister for Culture develop his view of what Swedish film is. The bill is very few words about it. For my part, I think that Swedish film should reflect Swedish conditions and that the film speaks Swedish; I think that is quite natural. Can the Minister give us answers to this, unlike what the bill does? The second point I want to make is the relationship between children and young people with film. The Alliance's main priority in the field of culture has been, is and will always be children's and young people's access to culture. We live in an age where the picture is becoming more and more important in all our lives. Children need help in dealing with this relationship. The other day I had an interpellation debate with Minister of Culture Bah Kuhnke on this. At that time, I stated that there are very few hours allocated in teacher training to give teachers the tools to give children the necessary knowledge to be able to critically review the picture. The exception is the intern training that has a few hours. The Minister of Culture then informed me that a collaboration with the Ministry of Education has been started in the Ministry of Education. It would be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Culture will pursue this issue in this cooperation, so that future generations will have the tools to decipher the images they face. Mr President, I would like to The third point I would like to highlight is the fact that the proposal completely leaves out the questions of evaluating the efforts made in the field of film policy. In reservation 10, we point out this fact and demand that others than those who are set to carry out film policy actions should evaluate themselves. The Alliance Government established the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis precisely for this task. Does the Minister intend to use external performers to evaluate the new film policy? The Minister for Culture is happy to give an answer as to when an evaluation will take place. Swedish film has the right to receive answers to questions for the future. The Swedish Film Institute Foundation needs to be changed. A model for partner and industry cooperation needs to be developed. The price of cinema tickets must be kept down, not least to protect the small cinemas. A plan to prosecute illegal downloading needs to be developed quickly. The government urgently needs to explore the possibilities of production incentives. I have to ask why the Minister for Culture did not include those elements in the bill, because the Green Party and the Social Democrats fully agree with us on the importance of this. So much more needs to be raised in order for us to have an overall film policy in this country. I would like to mention something that we must not forget but that the Minister for Culture forgets and that Gunilla Carlsson did not say a word about, namely that the funding of Swedish film is not based solely on tax money. Much of the film productions are financed by private money. It's often a shaky investment. After all, this is a fact about which the government rarely says any encouraging words. Mr President, I would like to We must relate to the film as an art form and the film as an audience phenomenon. Very few films are made without a well-functioning industry. For the film, public support is very important. They are becoming increasingly important for making movies. But it is private actors who make the films and show the films, and let it remain so!
i-c69328df67c5c45f-979	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating what the Minister of Culture has designated as one of his most important proposals this term of office, More film for more – a coherent film policy, with associated motions. Swedish film faces major challenges, as technology development, illegal downloading and issues related to copyright and display windows fundamentally challenge Swedish film industry. To meet this, the government wants to increase VAT on cinema tickets, nationalise film policy at the expense of the industry's influence and allow gender equality and diversity policy objectives to guide. The Swedish Democrats have presented a series of measures to instill confidence in the future in Swedish film production. We advocate production incentives for Sweden's competitiveness, say no to increased VAT on cinema tickets and want to see a deeper Nordic film collaboration. We also advocate a clearer mandate for the industry's influence. We support all our reservations, but I call for time-winning approval only for our reservations 4 and 16 in the report. Today, I would like to congratulate Swedish cultural policy on the success of pragmatism and sensitivity. In just over six months' time, our proposal on production incentives, first launched by the Swedish Democrats alone, has been gradually adopted by the Alliance and, in the run-up to the final revision of the report, by the government parties as well. It is a good thing to look at the profits of the proposal rather than the sender. That is very welcome. Congratulations Filmsverige, we can hopefully say today, when the government's unannounced film bill is given back homework in essential parts that had damaged Swedish film industry. At the same time, it is under all criticism that the government does not choose to anchor its policy in parliamentary terms. Instead, we would have been able to gather behind a long-term stable will direction. Swedish film policy is in need of reform, and it is fundamentally good that the government and parliament address the issue. At the same time, as a minority government, one must realise that without the anchoring of change the answer is spelled out announcements. The old film agreement has served Filmsverige for many years but does not answer all current questions. It is clear to us that the best way to achieve the solutions that the film industry needs is through dialogue and consultation between the industry and the parties in Parliament. We would have preferred the government to start its parliamentary consultation process before deciding to abolish the film agreement. We believe that an extended consultation process is necessary until we have found a long-term solution for future film production. We have been pushing for years for the parliamentary and democratic support of film policy to be strengthened. Parliament should be actively involved in influencing the development and framework of film policy. I am therefore pleased that today we have been able to bring together a majority of the committee in an announcement on a new parliamentary film investigation. Let's start with the targets, then go over to the road there. Reger- no one has seven goals for Swedish film, of which the seventh applicable freedom of expression and the public conversation is new. Several of the government's objectives are generally well-reliable. For example, the Swedish Democrats are positive about the objectives of accessibility and investment in children and young people, as it is a priority group in our general cultural policy starting points. At the same time, there are reasons to comment on several of the objectives to which we strongly reject. We are, in principle, strongly critical of gender equality and diversity objectives. Gender equality means for us that men and women are equal before the law and have the same rights and obligations and that all people regardless of gender have the right and the opportunity to choose their own path in life. We believe that equality does not by definition mean that men and women must do exactly the same things to exactly the same extent. We therefore believe, for example, that it should not be part of the Film Institute's objective to allocate funds according to gender. Content and quality should be the primary criteria for whether a film receives production aid, over different forms of quota. In its impact assessment, the government claims that gender equality and diversity in all parts of production contribute to strengthening the quality of Swedish film. This is not a true assumption. A person's craftsmanship is not in his skin colour, political positions, gender or sexual orientation. It is a very out-of-date assumption that attributes character traits to people based on physical or other irrelevant characteristics. In terms of quality and delimitation, we believe that the justification in the goal's development and production of valuable Swedish film is continuous and should be reworded in different parts of the country in order to be more consistent with the goal's intention. We also believe that the government makes an unfortunate distinction between challenging and audience film. Furthermore, it is generally important that targets have the potential to be achieved at all, and the government's new objective that film production can strengthen freedom of expression is too unclear. Expression through film is, of course, a way of using our constitutionally protected right of freedom of expression, but in substance it does not affect freedom of expression as such. A variety of ways of thinking, opinions and expressions in film can certainly broaden public conversation, but it does not affect the right of filmmakers or individuals to express their views. In order to strengthen freedom of expression, one can review what limits the freedom of artists and ensure that all citizens of our society can feel safe and not risk being persecuted, freed from work or otherwise harassed by their opinions. But that is something other than what the government puts in this case. We therefore believe that it is necessary to clarify what is meant by the objective of freedom of expression. Finally, the Swedish Democrats believe that it should be an objective to bring Swedish cultural heritage to life, not only through the restoration of old films but also through filmatizations that take place in historical environments. A milestone towards the road's goal of a viable film industry is, of course, the funding of Swedish film. Here we will sort out our idea of a modernised film agreement where both the industry and the state can take responsibility and whose design should be included in a future investigation. It is about efforts to combat illicit management of films, where it is reasonable to review whether legislation against file sharing can be tightened up, but also to encourage the industry to create competitive legal display windows with a wide range of services. Another part of the financing is production incentives that strengthen Swedish film industry and film production internationally, international production in Sweden and regional development locally, while at the same time it is estimated to be self-financing and socio-economically efficient. The increase in VAT that threatens to overturn small-town cinemas is a path on the funding path where the government gets lost, and we in the committee are making an announcement that it will come on the right track. The Government proposal states that the Swedish market is too small to maintain a living film industry without state aid. SD shares that reality statement. At the same time, over the years we have had Nordic cooperation in the field of film, and we want this cooperation to be extended in our follow-up motion. A coherent Nordic film market builds increased language understanding but also provides cultural and industrial development. I regret the fact that the committee rejects the open wording we have on this subject, with a very weak justification. In the light of Nordic film collaboration, we also believe that in the meeting with the other government representatives in the Nordic Council of Ministers, the government should argue that co-financing of the International Sami Film Institute, as proposed by the Nordic Council, should come about. Until such a solution is in place, the government can at the same time review what Sweden can do from a national point of view. Sami film is important from a cultural perspective but also as a tool for telling and portraying the Sami position in society, Sami history, culture, language and the like. Currently, only the Norwegian Department of Culture takes responsibility. But the institute also concerns Sweden's Sami and has in our country forms of cooperation but no operating aid. Finally, I would like to point out that the government's impact assessment of its overall proposal is, to say the least, inadequate and seems to be ideological in nature. The fact that several consultation bodies have investigated the economic consequences of the government's proposals, whose conclusions differ significantly from those of the government, should of course have included them with an explanation: we have an attitude, but there is disagreement about the actual consequences of VAT increases and nationalisation. More film to more people risks becoming less film to fewer.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1000	Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating this evening is called Prerequisites for Swedish film. It is a response to the government's proposal More film for more – a coherent film policy. How do we create conditions for Swedish film? Do you need a Swedish film? If Swedish film is needed, who will see Swedish film? And in such cases, where can you see Swedish film? These are relevant questions, and there are of course more questions. In my speech, however, I will stick to these four issues. Mr President, I would like to A movie I remember from when I was a kid is Beppe Wolger's amazing Dunderklumpen! Sitting at the cinema in Norrtälje at the age of eight in the cinema and watching mountain spirits come to life through Per Åhlin's animations and Toots Thieleman's music is an experience that leaves a mark. Many years later, when I could show my own children the same film, but this time on DVD at home, it was a new experience that we in the family took with us on vacation to the mountains that same year. I just want you to know how we were looking for a bumblebee who could speak Scanian, just like the Scanian bumblebee who had flown lost in Dunderklumpen – one who had Hasse Alfredson's voice. The feeling that the film conveyed remains decades later with both me and my children, the feeling of nature's greatness and the knowledge that goodness gives something back. But it was not just the cinema in Norrtälje that gave me the film experiences of my childhood. In the village yard at home in the neighboring village there was a film every summer. I cycled every Tuesday to Lännagården to watch this week's film. It was also where I saw my first child-prohibited film, but not of that kind. It was Rocky. It was a few years before my 15th birthday. The rest of the summer I stood up there in the granary and turned on an old potato bag hung up on the ceiling and filled with carpets. It worked fine for boxing practice. I have never been so good at jumping rope as after that summer either. Then I ran the run every day in the woods and up the mountain, where I stopped with my hands stretched over my head. The film gave quite a lot of emotions and impressions. Will the children of Kårsta have similar memories in a few years' time? In Kårsta Ekskogen's district farm you invest in a film show. Digital equipment has been purchased and has already had several film premieres. But the question is: what will happen next year when you get an increase of almost 20% in VAT on the cinema ticket? Mr President, I would like to My first question was: How do we create conditions for Swedish film? In Sweden we have incredibly good producers, directors, screenwriters, actors, film professionals and everyone else involved in the complex creation of a film. But do we give them the opportunity to practice their creation in our country? An important part is to create incentives for producers to place film production in Sweden. There are examples today where film production itself is moved to other countries where film production is viewed as more beneficial. Sweden has all the conditions to be a country where it could be produced many good Swedish films, but it could also attract foreign film companies. Among other things, what hinders Swedish filmmaking is the often unnecessarily high costs. Now we must quickly come up with proposals on how to reverse this trend. It is about strengthening Swedish film in the long term. It is about jobs and maintaining and developing the profession that exists here in Sweden. Then it is also important that there are high-quality training courses in all professional fields linked to film production. There are also regional film centres in many parts of Sweden. They are important for Swedish film production and also offer opportunities to produce film throughout the country. These regional film centres need continued support, but they also need to be encouraged to move closer together. A modern film policy should formulate ideas for how it can happen. We have an incredible breadth of popular culture in Sweden, not least with the support of the regional film centres. We have Swedish novelists and drama series that are often shown in Europe, and in some cases international versions of them are also made. Through continued investment in Swedish film production, we can compete with quality and not with quotas. With high quality films, Netflix will want even more Swedish material. Quality is obtained if we have the right conditions for film production in our country. But then we must also let the industry's players be involved in ensuring that the experience of the industry is exploited, and that influence is guaranteed now that the joint film agreement ends. Mr President, I would like to The government has chosen to terminate the film agreement and instead move to a state film policy. They have then also chosen to give the Swedish Film Institute more power with this. According to the Government, the Film Institute, which already has a great power in Filmsverige, will thus have even more influence and influence on Swedish film production. Without any in-depth analysis, the government has chosen to give an already powerful film institute even more power in that the Swedish Film Institute, in addition to its usual activities, will also appoint the people in the three industry councils the government has proposed. In addition, the Film Institute itself will develop the target indicators after which its own activities will be evaluated, and I can continue. This means, as far as I can see, more power for the Film Institute and a larger bureaucratic superstructure around the entire creative process. When the government has now terminated the film agreement and instead chosen to move to a state film policy, the question of the future of the Swedish Film Institute must also be highlighted. The Swedish Film Institute was created in the mid-60s as a result of the film agreement. A new film policy 50 years later should also mean, I think, that a new organisation for Swedish film in its entirety is being investigated. Swedish film is needed! It is an important intermediary and messenger. In addition, the film is an important creative nutrition. It provides many jobs and broadened knowledge in the field of culture, which also adds value to other parts of culture but also contributes to other sectors of the economy. The Swedish film also strengthens the Swedish brand internationally and gives a positive view of Sweden. This is particularly important for an export-dependent country like Sweden. So there will be a clear yes to the question. As I put it at the beginning of my speech, The film is also one of the most democratic cultural forms publicly seen. Film can be viewed across the country and on different platforms. Not least cinema culture is an important and democratic cultural form throughout the country. In smaller communities, the cinema is often also the cultural bearer of the locality. At the same time, the cinema is a very accessible cultural form that attracts all age categories: children, young people and the elderly. On my third question, who's going to see sv ensk film? The answer must be: a lla som vill. However, this may change if the government's strong increase in VAT on the cinema ticket from 6% to 25% VAT is implemented. The increase in VAT on the cinema ticket, together with other major tax increases that the government is now implementing, such as the doubling of the employer's fee for young people, is a manslaughter blow for Swedish cinema culture, not least in rural areas. It is a double blow for many cinemas that are already struggling with small resources, a double blow that may mean that cinemas may be closed down. It is cinemas mainly in small towns and rural areas that are most affected. Those who still continue to fight will have to invest even more in so-called safe cards, films that are known to draw audiences. The possibility of seeing narrower films will be even less outside the big city. Of course, if the cinema disappears from smaller towns around our country, fewer and fewer people will be able to take part in movies. It is also about the attractiveness of a locality, being able to offer cultural experiences throughout the country. In many localities, the cinema performs several functions, such as assembly hall, skola, theatre stage, and operators of opera, concerts and ballet. These are activities that are becoming more expensive or even threatened if cinema activities disappear. Mr President, I would like to The increase in VAT on the cinema ticket is more than just an attempt to find funding for Swedish film policy. The proposal on increased cinema VAT is very much a question of the whole of Sweden living. Giving adult Stockholmers free admission to museums for 80 tax million annually is a higher priority for the government than access to culture for all ages throughout the country. My answer to the fourth and last question that I put at the beginning of my speech, I have to be: all over Sweden. Unfortunately, however, that is not the answer from the government parties – the Social Democrats and the Green Party. That is why the announcement we are now deciding on in Parliament is so important, the announcement that the government will investigate urgently an alternative funding of film policy based on maintaining the current VAT rate Mr President, I would like to For the sake of the Swedish film, a broad film investigation is needed in which Filmsverige's parties and organisations as well as the parties of the Riksdag are involved, an investigation that carefully analyses the long-term prospects of Swedish film. With that, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that I support all the common reservations of the alliance parties, but I choose to apply only for reservation 14. Otherwise, I support the report of the Committee on Culture.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1026	Mr President, I would like to Per Lodenius has said, at a number of occasions, exactly what he is now saying in the speaker's chair, that you are moving from a VAT rate of 6% to 25%. But on a few occasions he talks about paying a certain percentage of the ticket revenue through the film contract. To make it fairer: that's 10 percent on ticket revenues as well. I think it is important that we clarify this. Otherwise, the risk is that you get a completely wrong picture. Per Lodenius often highlights the importance of a civil society and cinemas in the countryside, not least our rural estates and Folkets Hus and Parker. They are very important precisely in order to reach out with culture to more people throughout the country. Last autumn, when the budget was adopted, there was a clear effort not least to get more film to the cinemas around the country. There was 25 million in a bet. But it says the Center Party no to. That surprises me very much. A party that says that it protects the countryside and says that we should make sure that more people get a share of culture throughout the country says no to the investment of 25 million! In what way does the Center Party think that it would reach out with more culture if it did not invest these extra resources?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1030	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I should correct a few things in what Gunilla Carlsson says. Yes, there are cinemas that pay 10% in the so-called cinema fee in addition to 6 percent VAT. It's the so-called red cinemas. But I'm talking about many of the green cinemas, about a hundred or so cinemas around our country. They get a VAT increase from 6% to 25%. It's the smallest cinemas in the countryside that it's all about. They are the victims of this tax increase even more strongly. Of course, a 10% increase in VAT is also very strong for the cinemas that may be found in a little larger locations. So to the 25 million dollars that would be so nicely spent in support of cinemas in the country. First of all, we want to increase VAT, so that aid will not be close to covering the cost. In addition, this SEK 25 million is not a direct aid to these cinemas. The 25 million would, if I do not remember correctly, be distributed as follows: Around $10 million would go to distribution support for companies distributing narrow films from other countries, films in other languages. In what way should it support the smaller cinemas, when they are not able to show those films, because they need to receive ticket revenues? This is supposed to go to the companies that will distribute the films. SEK 5 million would go to support the construction of new cinemas. Are they to be built where other cinemas are closed down? SEK 10 million would be used to renovate premises or to train staff. That is not what these cinema owners and cinemas need! They need to keep the fares down. They need to be able to show films to local residents.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1035	Mr President, I would like to Many of these cinemas are run by associations that are exempt from VAT, which means that they will not be affected by the increase in tickets at all. SFI is now tasked with looking at what kind of support is needed. You say you protect the big cinemas. We know that there are those who have a monopoly position in the cinema market. Not infrequently do they say: No, don't come here and compete with us! That's what they say to the smaller cinemas, like Folkets Bio, which in Luleå has driven that you want to take over a cinema that is centrally located but where you haven't actually had the opportunity to come in. This means that it will not be the same diversity. As a social democrat, I want there to be several actors in the cinema market. I think it is important that we have our district farms, that we have Folkets Bio, that we have Folkets Hus and Parker, which also shows films around the country, many times in the countryside. The big ones, like SF, are not so interested in having a cinema where there aren't enough people coming. They also do not see the picture that Per Lodenius and I share, the picture that we will have meeting rooms that can be used as a cinema but also for a theatre performance, a study circle or something else. I see as a cultural politician a huge task to make it possible for these places around the country. I think that Per Lodenius shares that picture, and that is why I am very surprised when he does not really highlight the importance of these cinemas and the 25 million that will be a very important part of being able to support and help cinemas not least in rural areas but also in our metropolitan areas.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1039	Mr President, I would like to I think I need to fix a few more things. Yes, there are certain associations that are exempt from VAT when it comes to cinema. But many, almost most, are not. I can take as an example Kårsta Ekskogen's district farm in Vallentuna municipality, which has just recently installed a digital equipment. They have made sure that they have become subject to VAT in order to be able to deduct VAT when purchasing equipment. It is also a condition for them to be able to receive grants from the Film Institute, for example. This applies to several associations which today have digitised cinemas. They therefore have VAT on their tickets to finance their equipment. They are thus affected even if they are run by associations. There are a few associations that have a little more money – there may be some People's Hus associations – who can still fund this. Most of them have incorporated the film part in order to finance the technology equipment. So they are affected by this too. As I said, the 25 million is not really a support for the small cinemas, but it is a question of trying in some way to compensate for the much greater cost increase that is being put on these cinemas. What they also get, as I said, is the double shot. Many of these cinemas in rural areas have young people working and helping them. These cinemas now receive double employer's fees. The cinema in Tierp does not benefit from competing cinemas in some other locations. But Tierp's municipality benefits from having a cinema there, as they can then also have a good auditorium for the school that can also be used for theatre, musicals and show of opera. The question is how they can finance it if the cinema cannot remain there because the cost is so high when you suffer from the double shock, both VAT increases and employers' contributions.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1044	Mr President, I would like to We hold up the Liberals, of course, all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5 under paragraph 4. Mr President, I would like to Last week I visited the cinema Metropol in Eksjö and met Ola Fjällman and Anna-Lisa Lundvall. Metropol has been run by a nonprofit association since 1983, and its activities are based on highly committed volunteers of all ages. The oldest is 89 years old. It is a fantastic cultural meeting place that they have created and is really at the forefront of the latest technology, the breadth of what is shown and the depth of their idealism. An increase in the ticket price is a manslaughter blow for this small association which will mean that the ticket price must be increased by SEK 20 each, giving a price of SEK 130 per ticket. They expect to lose 140 000 SEK per year, their entire investment and development fund and a little more. Ola told me that he fears that such an increase will be the manslaughter blow against them in lost revenue, lost visitors and lost sales that knocks them down and puts an end to cinema Metropol and to a cinema in Eksjö, which is a fairly medium-sized city. Mr President, I would like to Let's be honest. Then I will also say that the government has thought and weight a one-off sum of SEK 25 million to support the development of cinemas. But the truth is that the sum will not do much good for the smaller cinemas in the country, cinemas that, like Metropol, are not allowed to expand the number of seats in the k-labelled salon. They have no employees to retrain, and they have already invested in the latest technology. Another consequence is that they will not be able to show the narrower films, documentaries and opera performances from Operahuset here in Stockholm as they do today. They will then have to leave the very great commitment they show to the school and to the local community with discounted tickets for special groups, thereby leaving the self-imposed responsibility of being a cultural node. This function will then disappear completely from Eksjö. Mr President, I would like to This weekend I met a film director, which is not part of my everyday life, who has the roots in my home town. Let's call him Henrik. Henrik and I sat and talked for quite a while and naturally came into his ongoing project. He told me that he is now taking the big step, which he was quite nervous about, from being a relatively successful documentary filmmaker and short filmmaker to making a feature film – a feature film with documentary content, as he said. He wants nothing more than to record at home here in Sweden, on the West Coast. I thought, of course, that Swedish film in Swedish about Sweden is recorded in Sweden. But this is not so. He told me that it had not become a project and had not become a film at all. He is currently playing into Belgium with substantial discounts on taxes and charges, large on location support from the Belgian authorities and more. In Sweden, where he wants to be and wants to work, it is too expensive. Henrik would pay here to make the film and not profit from it, i.e. not be able to charge any salary. These two very telling examples are about things that a majority in here wants to discuss whether it should be an important part of Swedish film policy. A minority does not want to do it, but can do better itself. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's cultural creators deserve better. Swedish film from ax to loaf wants more, can more and deserves more. Initially, I can see that a minority in here knows exactly what everyone in the film industry needs and wants and exactly how to get it. A majority, on the other hand, is convinced that everyone in the industry knows what they want in their different ways and also how they want to achieve it. A majority wants to create the conditions for all these cultural creators and cultural intermediaries themselves to shape, contribute to and create this. Mr President, I would like to The government's minority is now preparing to take a firm state hold on Swedish film. It has unilaterally scrapped the old film agreement between the parties that has been in existence for 30 years to try instead to introduce a state-wide film policy. Over the years, film policy has been based on the fact that the most engaged in Swedish film is negotiating an agreement that both regulates what resources are available and how these are to be distributed among different film projects. This has led to a mix of the broad films that attract large audiences to the cinemas and the more artistically oriented narrow film. To be honest, there has often been a great deal of controversy when the agreements have been negotiated. Several times the parties have threatened to leave the talks, and sometimes they have even done so. But in the end, the parties have agreed, after all, and it has become an agreement. It has been very good for Swedish film. The film agreement has served Swedish film well through all the years. But I think we all agree that the end of the road has been reached. The question that is of course reasonable to ask everyone involved is: What should we have instead, how do we support and strengthen, how do we fund and, perhaps primarily, how do we give everyone in the industry a proper influence on Swedish film? These questions, Mr President, still want to be asked by a majority in this House. The minority doesn't want to do that. Instead, the minority states that there should be a unilateral, state-owned film policy that should take care of everything. It is highly uncertain what one can gain from such a thing. The resources for Swedish films are becoming smaller, and the price of cinema tickets is rising. Financiers such as cinema owners, SVT, TV4 and others are left out. The political influence becomes greater when the state increases its power, and the parties in the Swedish film world have less say. What we call arm's length has become very short. It is this, Mr President, which is the decision-making point on Parliament's table today and which we will vote on next week. This is exactly where the dividing line goes – the line between a majority and a minority. Mr President, I would like to There are two main problems with the introduction of a state-wide film policy. One is that it is a state. We Liberals believe that the state should be very careful to keep a true arm's length away from culture. When important decisions are raised from the parties involved to the state, the risk is obvious that there will also be political governance of what is good or bad, what is viable or not feasible and what is accepted or not accepted. The second problem is that one can expect an entire state-owned film policy to change the film mix. A film agreement between both actors who claim the artistic aspects of quality film and actors who strive for high audience figures has given a good balance in film policy. There is an obvious risk that this balance is now being upset and that the broad audience film is being beaten. That would be unfortunate. Swedish film needs both width and lace. We in the Liberals believe that it would be better for Swedish films to take a new approach to a common film policy rather than to nationalise it. Modernisation – liberalisation – of the common policy should be based on broadening the number of parties involved, increasing the influence of all and broadening funding. Above all, it should be based on moving politics away a little bit, setting goals and following up. Those who make money from Swedish films should be involved in funding new Swedish films, and it is clear that they also want to do so. Mr President, I would like to The cinema is still decent, but more and more people choose to watch films in other formats. This makes broadband distributors and digital content providers important stakeholders in film policy – parties that have so far not been involved in funding. It must also be pointed out that illegal sharing and streaming drains Swedish film on money, and not a little money. But neither does the legal part, with large foreign players, give anything back to the film. There are estimates showing that it is 800 million kronor, and a new film policy must address both of these parts. This is something the majority wants but the minority has completely skipped. Instead, the government is in favour of quotas for the content of these services. More government control and less freedom is, what it seems, the only viable recipe right now. Modernisation of film policy according to a liberal model means that the resources for Swedish film are increasing overall. This means more influence for all parties involved and stable conditions. To conclude, Mr President, I heard a statement in the Ekot yesterday. The Minister for Culture said that state film policy, including the VAT increase, will take effect from the end of the year. I have to say, I raised both eyebrows. Was the film policy we are debating yesterday decided? This indicates an outstanding disregard for the elected, highest decision - making congregation. Surely the Minister for Culture understands that the government's policy in vital parts probably lacks support in this House? Firstly, we have not yet finished or voted. Secondly, it seems very likely that the government will get backing on a number of vital proposals. The Minister for Culture and Democracy de facto says that it is irrelevant what decisions the Riksdag makes – it is the government's will that will come true at the turn of the year. I can only say that it is an outstandingly casual view of democratic institutions and majority decisions. With this, Mr President, as I said, I would like to vote in favour of paragraph 5. Otherwise, I would like to endorse a proposal in the Culture Committee's report.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1064	Mr President, I would like to I agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation number three. Film is important to a lot of people. In 2015, we made 17 million cinema visits in Sweden. 46 Swedish feature films were launched, including A man named Ove who had 1.6 million cinema visitors. Without the really big audience success it would have looked much darker. But the great interest in film also applies to Swedish film policy, which has been debated livelyly in recent times. It also appeared during the hearing organised by the committee in the first chamber of Parliament on 25 February. The hearing was broadcast live in SVT, and a large number of organisations within Swedish film were present. The decisions taken by the Riksdag based on the Government's proposal govern very much how the Swedish film industry will fare in the future. This means that the announcements proposed by the Committee on Culture, in which we as a committee call on the government to re-do and do the right thing, will have significance for the future in Swedish film. Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Culture has likened the government's film bill More film to more – a coherent film policy in the biggest and most important cultural policy reform of the parliamentary term. It has created expectations in the entire film industry and among us politicians, but unfortunately the bill is not the quality that we hoped for. It would be the major breakthrough of the Minister for Culture, but it seems to be something completely different. In fact, it could have been very good if the government, the Ministry of Culture and the Minister for Culture had been more open to collaboration and dialogue with us in the Alliance. But that cooperation was lost in a clumsy way. Now it became a product that on many points had to be remade – hence a large number of reservations from the parties and proposals for seven whole announcements to the government. There is a lot of importance in the report, such as digitisation and preservation of film heritage, but I will stick to a few other points. A proposed announcement concerns the Government's proposal for funding, which we have opposed. The Minister for Culture wants to raise bio-VAT from 6% to 25%. As we have heard several previous speakers mention, the increase in the amount of bioVAT will hit the rural cinemas hard. This is what Björn Wallgren, who runs cinemas in Tierp in northern Uppland, among other places, says: The Minister for Culture answers this question:"When you make major changes in politics, not least in film policy that has been the same for a long time, there will be concern. ..................................................... For smaller cinemas, which today do not pay the usual cinema fee, the increase in the ticket price may be nearly $20. The cinema owners argue that price increases will hit cinemas particularly hard in smaller towns. It is therefore an anti-rural policy initiated by the Green Party. Björn Wallgren says, "People don't earn as much here as in the big cities and we don't have the same margins as the cinemas in larger towns." Another question that is asked in the discussion is, Why should Friday cozy at the cinema in Norrtälje have 25 percent VAT while Fanny and Alexander at the Royal Dramatic Theatre in Stockholm have 6 percent VAT? ..................................................... The Committee on Culture wants to investigate alternative funding for the increased bio-memies. Mr President, I would like to We believe that the national objectives proposed by the government are based on the old model of film agreements and are therefore insufficient. The goals of the Minister for Culture are, we believe in the Alliance, generally held and not enough to be able to evaluate and develop Swedish film in the future. We Christian Democrats, like the other alliance parties, do not reject the Government's proposal More film for more, but we want to add two important, fundamental objectives, among other things. It is about the national targets proposed by the government being complemented by targets for increased audiences, more film productions and greater accessibility, and that the national targets should be complemented with targets for quality and renewal. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention the illegal circulation of films. At the public hearing in February, I put the question to the film and television producers' representative Björn Rosengren about illegal downloading. According to the Film and TV producers, this is one of the most important issues to clarify, and Björn Rosengren wanted to see legislation. It is about 800 million, perhaps up to SEK 1 billion that is lost to illegal forces. In an announcement to the Government, the Committee on Culture calls for a prompt return to Parliament with proposals on how to stop the illicit circulation of films. Mr President, I would like to The committee also supports an announcement that the government should urgently investigate the possibility of production incentives or discounts in Sweden. The fact that Sweden lacks it harms Swedish film industry and makes it unreasonably expensive to record films in our country compared to other countries. In contacts with, among other things, Film Väst, which we from the alliance side have visited recently, it is believed that the production discount is a very important issue for which the government should investigate and find a form. Mr President, I would like to I want to end with what I see as the most important thing of all. The Committee on Culture is now proposing to the Riksdag to commission a wide-ranging film investigation by the Government, which will develop a new model of collaboration, in which all parties are given both transparency and influence. The investigation will also review the role and organisational form of the Swedish Film Institute. It is not reasonable for all power over film policy to be placed in the hands of a private law foundation where both transparency and outside influence are limited. The fact that the re- geringen has proposed that the Swedish Film Institute should also appoint its own industry councils and evaluate its own activities is of course highly inappropriate. It rhymes badly with the way we tend to look at and define the word democracy. Finally, Mr President, I would like to quote the actor and director Helena Bergström from the open hearing in February on the conditions for Swedish film. She said, "The Swedish Film Institute, please, I beg you not to turn with the word quality in contradiction to the audience." Hear what that sounds like! In fact, it is dangerously close to an audience contempt that the narrow film is quality while the audience out there stands for something else. No, no, no, no! This is not how the future of Swedish film can look. Instead, let us work for diversity on all levels in real, wide and narrow, high and low, serious as fun. Then we can seriously have a thriving Swedish film industry. ..................................................... It strikes me, Mr President, that I have heard this before. It was in a famous speech by former party leader Göran Hägglund of the Christian Democrats about the people of reality. That the narrow culture is quality while the audience out there stands for something else is dangerously close to audience contempt! It is clear that the message about the people of reality is equally topical today!
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1083	Mr President, Members of Parliament, audiences and, not least, all film lovers! Imagine you're taking over an old house. From a distance it looks nice, but when you get close to a re, scrape a little on the paint and knock on the wood it becomes clear that the house's carrying walls after years of non-maintenance are decaying and decaying. The people for whom the house was built have long since moved away. And insurance companies no longer want to sign contracts for long periods but only want to insure the house for one year at a time. It was in such a reality that the Red-Green Government took over responsibility for Swedish film policy. The former bourgeois government, however, had understood the gravity of the situation and had for some time begun discussions about a future without a film agreement. We were faced with a choice: either we buy new paint and paint additional layers of the house that all serious judges condemned as unfit to live in, or we replace the unstable old house and cast a new foundation for a stable building. We chose the responsible path. And now we stand here with a stable funded base album for Swedish film. The Parliament has been given a drawing on its table to take a position on, so that we can build an attractive house for many to move into, a house to grow in, a house that builds Swedish film strong for the future. Mr President, I would like to All houses need a stable economic foundation to stand on. Without this stability, there is no one who dares to make the investments that are otherwise needed. Today, Swedish film faces major economic challenges. Profitability in the industry has fallen sharply in recent years. At the same time, the new digital viewing windows, which offer fantastic opportunities to spread and view films, have put great strain on the established business models. Even the most successful Swedish films today find it difficult to make the funding go together. The government has taken this seriously and therefore cast a stable foundation so that more people can and dare to invest in Swedish film again. We guarantee the amount contained in the film agreement and a few million more. SVT has announced on top of this increased investment in film production, and TV4 has told us in talks that they too will continue to invest money in Swedish film. With the guarantees that we now give the Swedish film industry, the actors dare to make new investments in Swedish film. Mr President, I would like to The old film agreement has for a long time been an important forum for Swedish film, but over time reality has changed. Many stakeholders have described how the contractual discussions have been characterised by locks. Self-interest has dominated the negotiation of agreements, and it has been impossible to lift your eyes to ensure the common good. Several key actors have left the agreement table or been excluded from the talks, which has led to an increasing democratic deficit. The state's resources were locked up in an increasingly out-of-date film contract where every crown was regulated in detail. After nearly two years of careful preparation at the department, individual meetings with over a hundred industry representatives, seminars with the industry and countless analyses, it became clear to me, and to many others, that the film agreement had reached its end. It became clear that it was no longer possible to conduct a modern film policy on the basis of an agreement based in such large parts on a reality picture that is no longer relevant. Leaving the film agreement means a historic transformation of Swedish film policy. Film policy is now becoming an integral part of cultural policy. It creates the conditions for thinking new and developing new forms of collaboration and thus seeing new opportunities. At the same time, politics must be flexible enough to meet the challenges of the whole industry. It should be a policy in which all the voices of the industry can be heard and heard, not just the economically strongest. Mr President, I would like to The drawing for a new house for Swedish film that we have put on Parliament's table is a blueprint for more democracy and greater participation for the groups that have previously been allowed to stand outside the house and look at the actors who have sat around the kitchen table and decided on the terms and conditions for the entire Swedish film industry. Among those who have been allowed to look through the window are those who create what the film-loving audience enjoys. It's the scriptwriters, the directors and the actors. On the Göteborgs-Posten debate page today, the Dramatic Federation, the Theatre Association for Scene and Film and the Swedish Film Directors, as Gunilla Carlsson mentioned earlier, write that they believe that the process that preceded the film policy bill that I have presented has been solid and thorough. They note that after years of investigative work, the government has carried out a thorough process and that it is now finally time to decide on a new structure that gives a strong and vital film life with greater influence to the authors. Writers continue to write: a strong answer to the proposal for further investigation is No! Further investigation means that Swedish film policy is losing momentum. That would be devastating! ..................................................... With the proposal for a new Swedish film policy, the government opens the door to the house and allows those who have previously only had to look in. This means that more people than those who make money, big money, on showing Swedish films can be involved in influencing. I'm very happy about that. I am also pleased and proud of the proposals for new film policy objectives that Parliament is discussing today. The new film policy objectives point out a clear direction, but the way there is wide open. Unlike the detailed regulations of the old film agreement, the new film policy creates the conditions for the Film Institute, together with the industry, to build the way forward. There will be a clearer distance between politics and filmmaking, between classy politicians and those who are the real experts. It provides the opportunity to influence more of the film industry's actors. It's giving increased influence to those who actually make movies. This is the first time that film policy objectives are proposed to be decided by the Swedish Parliament. This is of great importance for building a solid basis for policy. It is also symbolic of one of the government's most important aims in the transformation of film policy. From now on, film policy will be the subject of debate and discussion here in Parliament's Chamber. Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, well aware of the criticism that has been made. I would therefore like to say a few words about the increase in VAT in cinemas. Firstly, cinemas are, of course, culture. It is not VAT levels that define what is culture. Secondly, when the film agreement ends, the cinema fee paid by cinemas since the 1960s will disappear. Instead, cinemas pay higher VAT. For the vast majority of cinemas, this means a cost increase corresponding to an increase in the ticket price of SEK 5. VAT will be the same for cinemas as when you rent films on DVD or via stream ning. Thirdly, over the last 50 years, cinemas have contributed to the funding of cinema policy through the cinema fee. Instead, in the future, they will contribute indirectly via VAT. Without the contribution of cinemas, the State would have to halve the aid for the production of new Swedish films. This would have dramatic consequences for Swedish film production and thus, in the long run, for Swedish cinemas. Mr President, I would like to The drawing that the government has put on Parliament's table is a stable base plate with supporting walls and a waterproof roof that lasts for a long time to come. Of course, I have full respect for the announcements proposed by Parliament. As always, the Government intends to respect Parliament's views and to come back with proposals on how to take care of them. The bill for a modern film policy is a blueprint for a house that should stand the stool for tough winds and new times. It is a house in which it feels safe to invest and which many want to stay for a long time. This is how we can create the conditions for a film policy that goes along with its time and helps to create the future of Swedish film history.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1110	Mr President, I would like to Finally, an urgent debate as the Minister of Culture, after caution in the bill river otherwise this spring, presented the map for a new direction in cinema policy! This was done after a consultation process that began after the foundation of Swedish film policy, the film agreement, had been terminated without consultation. The short consultation subsequently collapsed when the Minister announced that she was not prepared to discuss the whole. Today, the Minister has also expressed a strange view of the announcements made by the Riksdag with the expression: They are not world-changing. The Swedish Parliament is Sweden's highest decision-making body and gives the government back homework on a number of points. The government as the executive body is asked to carry out, among other things, a new broad investigation and a abolition of the increase in VAT. The problem with the minister's house description is that they have demolished the house and set up a tent. So you can summarize the government's film bill. What did the Minister mean by today's statement on announcements? When is it expected to return to the Riksdag with a blank paper for a parliamentary investigation in all the parts you get back homework on?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1115	Mr President, I would like to I have not made a statement today about film policy or announcements. However, I have pointed out on a number of occasions in recent weeks the importance of respecting the order we have in our Parliament. Of course, I will ensure that the government takes care of all the announcements that are proposed to be adopted. That is the short and simple answer. Mr Emilsson asked a question about the timetable and how we intend to do this. I'll get back to that. First, the House needs to decide on the announcements.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1117	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of the timetable, the government seems to have lacked both the timetable and the compass from the outset on this issue. Was it not understood when it chose to interrupt the consultation because it did not want to discuss the whole issue, such as the question of financing, that it could go on the back-leaf homework? And if so, how would it be handled? In the light of a self-evident and constantly up-to-date discussion in the field of cultural policy and in the field of art about the democratic approach and an arm's length distance between us politicians and the art and cultural sector, it becomes a bit paradoxical and a bit hypocritical when the Minister for Culture claims that there is a clearer distance between clouting politicians and the film industry in the new proposal for what film collaboration and consultation should look like between the film industry and politicians. The government's indirect governance and the advice from the industry that will be appointed at the Swedish Film Institute and which will then be consulted by the government are, after two stages, politically appointed. Should the industry not decide who should represent it in a consultation? But of course, we have recently been involved in discussions at departmental level in the environmental-partisan and social-democratic government that they want to go in and govern both public services and other cultural institutions that are fundamental in Swedish democratic society. The question becomes relevant: how will the culture minister act to maintain the distance and not connect industry and politics?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1121	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether the Member of Parliament is mistaken for anyone else or has not seen what political decisions I have been involved in pushing and taking over the one and a half years that I have been Minister of Culture. With regard to public service, for example, I have ensured that the arm's length distance has increased clearly. It is at all the cultural policy that the government is pursuing. We will create the conditions for culture, including film policy, and stay very far away from the content. This is exactly what we are doing now. Perhaps it is also the case that the Member of Parliament is not sufficiently familiar with how the old film agreement worked. It has been a detailed regulation at a minimum level that has hindered Swedish film production. What we are doing now is creating conditions. Now we have built the foundation that creates the conditions for the film industry to be involved in influencing and shaping Swedish film policy for the first time in a long time. It is a decision of strength, it cares about the film and it allows us to see a bright future for Swedish film production.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1124	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear the Minister of Culture speak as an architect. There was a new approach to rhetoric. A base album – no, Mr President – when I listen to the Minister for Culture, I rather perceive an air castle without any real anchor. The VAT money stops coming in because no one goes to the movies. What does the government do? Well, you cut the funding for the film production. You don't want to do anything about the illegal download. It's not surprising because the Minister for Culture is an environmental party – they don't want to do anything about illegal downloading. Film recordings go abroad because all other countries have production incentives. Most recently this week, Iceland made an increase from 20% to 25%. This is what I call an air castle. There's no stability. Mr President, Mr Emilsson views it as a tent. But no, it's not even a tent – it's an air castle without anchoring in reality. The Minister of Culture sat here listening, but hasn't answered one of my questions. I'll repeat them. If the Riksdag now takes a majority decision, does the Minister of Culture intend to set up a film investigation? Can we get a clear message about that? What is Swedish film for the Minister for Culture? How will children get critical thinking? And will the Swedish Film Institute evaluate its activities – is it wise and democratic? Mr President, I would like to Parliament is not a dis cussion club – it is a decision-making forum.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1130	Mr President, I would like to I'll really try to answer all the questions. It was a steady stream, but otherwise I will have the opportunity to do so in forthcoming interpellation debates. Of course, the government respects the order we have in the Swedish Parliament. As always, we're going to take care of the announcements that's being made-- that's obvious. As far as the new film policy is concerned, it is solid. It was a process that went on for several years. It started in the autumn of 2013, when work started internally at the Ministry. In spring 2014 we hired a very knowledgeable person, Bo-Erik-Erik Gyberg, who has worked with film and film production for a long time. We have conducted individual talks with about 100 people in the Swedish film industry. In the autumn of 2014, we moved on. Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth initiated the future film support process and so on. It is a solid process, which among others representatives of the industry – The Theatre Federation, the Dramatic Federation and the Swedish Film Directors – confirms in a debate article in the Gothenburg-P cheese today. It is a solid and long process in which we have really anchored the changes and caught up the signals about changes that the Swedish film industry demands and that they think is needed for them to be able to do the best for Swedish film. Illegal downloading is a huge problem. That's why I'm very proud that I was the one who got to grips with the issue. I have started a round table discussion and even set up a group that is working to strengthen existing copyright. We must tackle this challenge, and I regret that this was not done during eight years by bourgeois government.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1135	Mr President, I would like to It is surprising when the Minister for Culture stands in this Chamber and says: I have taken hold of the illegal downloading. But she could have written that in her bill. In fact, it is the Culture Committee that is now forcing this from the Minister for Culture. Why was it not in the proposal on which we have now produced a report? The anchoring that the Minister of Culture is talking about is another air castle. When she terminated the film agreement, all the stakeholders were amazed: Where did this come from? The anchoring process has also failed, Minister of Culture. Those who have written a debate article today say that a new film policy requires courage to challenge power structures. But you haven't. I am convinced that they will be extremely disappointed on the day they realise that the Swedish Film Institute will sit behind its foundation wall and refuse to give answers to the questions they have put under the film agreement. The Minister of Culture and the Government do not want to do anything to change the structure of the Swedish Film Institute. With regard to detailed regulation, the Minister of Culture said the other day that the Swedish Film Institute will now have to investigate whether more rules are needed, not less. The Minister for Culture has said that there will be less regulation, but she makes statements in the press that go in a completely different direction.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1139	Mr President, I would like to I assume that I am the one who is referring to her in this dialogue. Once again, the honourable Member has many different statements that I will try to address. As for the claim that yesterday I commissioned the Swedish Film Institute to do a review, I have not done so. I think I'm too good for that. However, I confirmed what Anna Serner said – that she will do a review. I welcomed this and look forward to it. It is crucial that we understand the importance of now making a film policy that keeps politicians very far away from it. That is precisely why we should have a film institute between politicians and those who are experts in designing the best conditions for the Swedish film, just as we have authorities in terms of cultural policy in general. The three sectoral councils now being set up respond to the need expressed by many representatives of the industry during the long process that has been going on for several years. They want to know that their voices, their perspectives and their knowledge of the conditions for Swedish film, how to make film and what you need for further support come out. This is why it is inscribed in the proposal we put forward that Svenska Filministutet should listen to and, in collaboration with the various industry councils, shape the new film policy.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1145	Mr President, I would like to The Minister's speech raised more questions than answers. I was not really going to talk about VAT, but when the Minister then said that it is not the VAT level that defines culture, I still had to end up on the VAT trail in the end. No, the VAT level may not define culture, if that is how the Minister wants to see it. But it defines the cost to the consumer of culture. Why should cinema films have a higher VAT rate than, for example, theatre or opera, the Minister? Isn't that a way of pointing out cultural value? Doesn't the minister think it's important to have movies in the movies all over the country? If the Minister thinks so – what would the Minister do to save the cinemas in the countryside and in smaller towns? Is there no value in the fact that there are entrepreneurs and enthusiasts who want to show films also in smaller towns? How does the Minister think of the announcement on the financing of film policy, where a majority in Parliament says that it should be a starting point for an urgent investigation to maintain the current level of 6% of ticket VAT? The Minister has spoken in SVT today. On SVT's website, it says this under the sub-heading.Bah Kuhnke won't change his mind: And the Minister of Culture won't change his mind. I look forward to the new film policy coming into effect next year. The announcements are not world-changing, but we will deal with them during the journey," says Alice Bah Kuhnke( MP), Minister for Culture.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1148	Mr President, I would like to For me, it is important always – and that is what I have done in recent weeks – to state that the government respects the order of the parliament and that we will of course consider the announcements made. It is essential that we follow the rules and the order that we have and that we respect the decisions. The honourable Member asks me if it is not important to me with cinemas throughout the country. It's a central issue for me. That is precisely why I have been keen that we ensure that, in the preparation of the new film policy, we do not spoil, but help and create more conditions for different viewing windows throughout the country. I look forward to the funds that the government has set aside precisely for this – unlike what the Center Party wants – being able to start working, working and getting out. I have met several cinema owners around the countryside looking forward to this and seeing the results of what they can do with this support. There are currently talks and a dialogue between SFI and bio-owners to ensure that the 25 million that the government, unlike the Center Party, allocates to this end is right and used for the needs that exist. When it comes to VAT, we now get the same VAT level for display windows regardless of what they look like. I would like to reiterate and emphasise that it is not VAT rates that determine what is culture.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1152	Mr President, I would like to We do not have the 25 million SEK in our budget because we do not have the VAT increase and the employer's contribution increase. This means that we have much more money in support – if you want to call it support – or opportunities for the cinemas to continue working on their own and continue to run their business. This SEK 25 million is not about support for the small cinemas in the province. What has been looked at so far is about 10 million in aid for the distribution of narrower films. It's about building new cinemas. What help does it give to the Tierp cinema? None at all. Maybe we've met different cinema owners in the country. The people I have met have not thought that the SEK 25 million really outweighs the increase in VAT and tax on employers' contributions. At the same time, the Minister talks about the same VAT rate on all display windows. There's 6% VAT on going to opera. But if you want to buy a DVD or a record with the same opera, it is 25 percent VAT. Is the Minister trying to say that we should review the VAT rate in all cultural areas? Should we also increase VAT on opera, theatre and concerts? Is this what the Minister intends to do in the future? And why should movies at the cinema have a different VAT rate? In Europe, there are different rates of VAT on films in cinema, theatre and opera. There is no distinction between cultural forms in this way. Whatever the Minister says, this is a difference. A distinction is made between different types of cultural expression in this way, and it is the cultural expression that is the most democratic and that exists throughout the country that is taxed in this way.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1156	Mr President, I would like to It is important to know your history and to keep the background in mind in order not to risk going wrong. I hope that Parliament will remember that the 10% cinema fee, from which the government is now releasing the cinemas, was part of the discussions when it received the lower VAT rate. Now that we are reshaping the film agreement in a new film policy, the importance of the cinema fee and the importance it has had for VAT also fall. One should also know that what distinguishes Lodenius from the policy pursued by the Center Party from government policy is that we invest in culture widely and widely. That's the big difference. In addition, we see culture as part of welfare. We will go to elections on more culture for more. That is what Sweden's voters will be able to see and judge from outside. I look forward to meeting the cinema owners in Tierp and in many other places together with Lodenius in debates on how the new film policy came out. I am convinced that there will be an interesting discussion for both of us but from completely different perspectives.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1159	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Minister of Culture. It was a beautiful picture of the house, and it was beautiful words. We have some different pictures. I cannot help quoting Shakespeare, because sometimes when there are beautiful words and pictures you can think about what it all is built on. This is what Shakespeare writes. Up fly the words The thought still stands Words without thought Heaven never reaches I must say that I find the relationship between the ministry and parliament exciting. I am extremely disappointed by the parliamentary talks that we were invited to. We had some contacts with departmental people, but we haven't seen the smoke of them for quite some time now. What concerns the conversations that we would have and where we would somehow be involved was handled very badly. I would like to ask the Minister a question. As I hear the Minister talking with arrogance about poor politicians – which bothered me – I wonder how the Minister himself views cooperation between the Ministry and the parliamentary parties on precisely the issue of this bill and how it has progressed.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1163	Mr President, I would like to Shakespeare has also written about the actors who alert and make themselves known. It is interesting to hear Member of Parliament Utbolt lamenting the absence of talks, because it is also a sadness for me that we did not manage to talk even though I tried to invite Utbolt and his alliance friends to talk about this very thing that we are instead discussing here now. My leadership has always been characterized by the fact that I have tried and have often managed to talk with people in order to reach common solutions. Politics is very much about compromising and prioritising. I am convinced that any policy, including cultural policy – perhaps especially cultural policy – is well served by meeting in compromises that do not need to be watered down but show and lead us on a path that is sustainable in the long term. I can feel that it is a sad fact that there are such clear differences between our cultural views. I represent a government that sees culture as part of the well-being, in which our Minister for Finance is prepared to invest and which the Prime Minister talks a lot about, and I, as Minister of Culture in a Red Green Government, am very proud of it. I'm sorry that sight isn't wider than that. When you talk to Utbolt and his friends in the Alliance, it's a lot about those who make money and already have opportunities and not about how culture, and in this case the film, can actually be the democratic tool that it is. Now we have a proposed film policy which can still be achieved thanks to the government's policy.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1167	Mr President, I would like to I will remind the Minister that I myself am a cultural worker and have been a cultural worker for many years, and I have not cut gold with a knife or so. I know the conditions under which you work. I just want to say. What the Minister is saying now is interesting, because I find it interesting how to proceed in this relationship. The minister says she wants cooperation. The majority of Parliament wants to see a new broad film investigation from the government. A majority wants to see a new collaboration model where all parties participate and gain influence in this conversation and review, among other things, the role of the Swedish Film Institute. Then, of course, my question is: what does the Minister do with this from what the Minister says about cooperation and dialogue? The majority want to see a broad film investigation. What does the Minister want?
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1170	Mr President, I would like to I want to respect the order we have and I will always respect the order that we have jointly decided on. It means that I will consider your announcements that make s. More detail than that, I cannot explain any time plans because the announcements have not yet been decided. But eventually I will return to Parliament with a statement on this. It goes without saying to the government and to me. I look forward to discussing film policy in this House over the coming years, and I am grateful for our unsuccessful talks despite the fact that we are now having a discussion on film policy. The film is important and will become increasingly important. After all, moving images are among the largest in the world at the moment in terms of cultural tools and expressions for many, especially children and young people, in our country. I believe that if we continue on this track, Member of Parliament Utbolt, and are prepared to respect each other and have a discussion, we will not only make a difference to the Swedish film's conditions but also to Sweden as a whole.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1173	Mr President, I would like to There are many parts that need to be commented on. I shall begin with the Minister's speech. I reacted quite strongly to announcements being referred to as comments. These are not comments; they are sharp decisions to execute an order. But there are more speakers than me who have lifted it up. Then it is interesting with the parable of building the house. The building now seems to become a holiday village with a government reception and without the necessary all-activity building for the film with room for everyone. The Minister mentioned that SVT and TV4 and others have announced continued support for film production and in both cases higher aid than is currently being granted. That's absolutely right. The cinema owners forgot the minister to mention. They have also announced that they are happy to support film production. The difference with today is that the aid does not come to a common pot, not to consultation, but to drain pipes and their own barrels instead. It is not creating the conditions, it is diversifying. I would like to hear the Minister develop his thoughts on this. SFI is a foundation governed by the Foundation Act. Governance and management – how does the Minister view it? After all, there is a huge difference between a foundation and an authority when it comes to managing money and how it can be managed and managed by law. I'd love to hear the Minister develop it.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1178	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the questions! Again, it is self-evident to me to take care of all the announcements that come from this House. It is also obvious to the government. With regard to the joint pot and the criticism that the honourable Member is making about the fact that the film agreement guaranteed unity and consensus, I must protest. Is it something that the film agreement has been characterized by in recent years it is precisely a limitation on who has the power and also an enormous control of detail, which has hindered the conditions for the Swedish film. It is obvious after the long process that we have had over the last two years, and it is obvious after many discussions with different actors from the Swedish film industry. It has not been good for Swedish film. This is also one of the main reasons why we have proposed a new film policy – that more people should be involved in influencing the Swedish film's conditions and future. We share power. Let's open up. We clearly move the involvement of politics in the content of the film several steps away. We lay and cast a base plate that creates the conditions for the industry's players to influence. This will be very clear as soon as the industry councils are in place. And it will become very clear when the new film policy begins to appear in real films. I look forward to this. As far as SFI is concerned, after careful consideration we have concluded that the best thing for the Swedish film is, for the time being and as far as we can see, that it continues in the form it is today.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1183	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answers, Minister. I would also like to highlight two points. One concerns VAT, which several have talked about. The minister has compared it to the biotian and said there is compensation in between. Now it is difficult to compare the two parts because the biotian went straight into the common pot and the VAT goes straight into the treasury. We don't have a system of communicating pipes in between. We therefore have excise duties in this way. This means that VAT will actually hit both small and medium-sized cinemas very hard. Of the seven eight cinemas in my home country, six of them will be severely affected. Some of them are likely to have problems with profitability. The question is, do they survive? Let's see. The Minister will return to the talks to which we have been invited and to which we have indeed gone. They also tended to be about all the things we weren't allowed to talk about. The different parties came with different things in the backpack that we wanted to highlight in the talks. But in the talks, the agenda tended to be more important than the content. What we were not allowed to talk about, among other things, was the VAT rate, the time process and how everyone could contribute in a common pot and then be involved in making decisions. It was troubling, and that's why the conversations broke. I'm sorry about that, too. Finally, I note that cinema owners and people who make money from Swedish films are not evil. I guess they want to.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1187	Mr President, I would like to My basic attitude in life is that people want well. I feel that Member of Parliament Eliasson wants well and that he is passionate about his questions. At the same time, however, I have to say that there is some ignorance about VAT, biotian and cinema fees. Biotian and cinema fees are two different things. This may be the reason why the MP's talks with cinema owners around the countryside were a bit wrong. It is important when talking about the impact of the new film policy that it actually separates the different powers. It is also a fundamental factor that the different powers, depending on which one touches, also have different outcomes. I am convinced that the increase in VAT will not be the main reason why cinemas may be forced to close. We have set aside funds so that precisely those association cinemas or other cinemas in rural areas that need support will receive it. I would like to add a new nuance to the discussion. I've been talking to a lot of people who are worried. After discussions with me, they have calmed down because they feel that this was not the facts they received from it and that Member of Parliament or read in the newspaper. It creates not only concern but also political contempt if people feel that we are going with untruth or bringing forward information that is not correct. That's what we're all going to eat at the end of the day. I look forward to a new film policy, and I look forward to many fruitful talks in this House and in other rooms.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1192	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking everyone who has so far participated in the debate. It has been a good debate. It has been clarification. The new film policy has, time and again, been presented as the biggest cultural policy reform in the parliamentary term, and it therefore deserves to be debated. This is certainly not the only one that has been called the biggest, best and most important cultural policy reform in the parliamentary term, but we also have a Minister of Culture who does not skimp on the superlatives of his own efforts. Over the past year, the work of the Committee on Culture has been very much influenced by film policy. The history we have already received lectures here. The start came when the Minister for Culture, without having any idea of either alternatives or consequences, pushed slightly from the hip and terminated the film agreement just over a year ago. After that, there has been an uncertain harrowing back and forth until the spring when the government proposal, which was greatly delayed, finally landed on the board of the Riksdag. In February, the Committee on Culture chose to convene a public hearing on film policy. The aim was to get a broad discussion about Swedish film and its conditions: about Swedish film in Sweden and in the world, about a Sweden where Swedish filmmakers want to work and develop and where the world's filmmakers find it attractive to record their films, about how the wide can be combined with the narrow, about how we can develop our regional film centres and how we can make it profitable to produce, distribute and show Swedish films in our cinemas. In short, that is all we had hoped that the film bill would answer. That's not what happened. The biggest reform of the term of office became a desk product. Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that I do not doubt the ambitions of the government. I am convinced that you want Swedish film sincerely well, that you believe in Swedish film and that you want to create the best conditions for it to develop. Yet it became so wrong. The film finally becomes part of the other cultural policy, said the Minister for Culture, and shocked VAT to 25%, unlike any other culture. Now we finally get a state film policy, said the Minister of Culture, and delegated all power to a private law foundation. Now everyone in the industry is finally being given influence, said the Minister for Culture, and degraded the influence to be allowed to sit in different opinion groups called industry councils. As a result, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media rejected large parts of film policy in several essential and fundamental areas. My representatives in the debate have explained the announcements that Parliament is now making. It is about funding, organisation, digitalisation, collaborative models, piracy and production opportunities. The committee's position can be summed up as follows: repeat! Do the right thing! Do it in a new, real, film investigation! I am particularly pleased that in three of the announcements we are now presenting there is political agreement. This is the demand that the government should urgently come back with proposals against the illegal circulation of films, about the need for the introduction of production incentives and about the importance of continuing the digitisation of Swedish film heritage. I would like to express my special thanks to the Social Democrats here for recognising the shortcomings of the government's proposal in these areas as well. Mr President, I would like to Following the committee's decision, the Minister for Culture commented that, in essence, the government has received the committee's approval, and she called the reform the best-established cultural policy reform in modern times. That is an incomprehensible statement. Or – it was incomprehensible until today. Today it has been clear that the Minister for Culture and Democracy does not care so much about either criticism or lack of support and support. It was clear in the media this morning, and it has been clarified in this debate. Today, the Minister has stated that announcements are not seen as world upheaval and that the government responds to announcements that are always addressed, that it takes care of them and prepares them. A few changes are not prepared to be made. These are remarkable statements by a Minister for Democracy. Parliament's position has been known since the meeting of the Committee on Culture barely a month ago. I would like to ask the Minister for Democracy how she views the Swedish Parliament and the decisions taken in this House. I do not think we have had clear answers today. I would like to know what plan the Minister for Democracy has for the announcements that Parliament is now deciding on. How do you plan to prepare them? I would like to know to what extent the Minister for Democracy will heed the majority of this House. And to the extent that she will not do so, if she intends to ignore the outcome, I wonder why she has subjected the motion for a resolution to the parliamentary scrutiny of the film. How does it rhyme with being a minister of consensus in a cooperation government? Or was it just a lip service? I must ask a supplementary question, given the answers we have received in this House today. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has repeatedly said that the announcements will be taken care of. I would like to ask the Minister for Democracy to define the word custody. Parliament's decision should not be taken care of. They're supposed to be catered for. That's an essential difference. Mr President, I would like to I would appeal to the Minister for Culture now to put politics ahead of prestige and to take the chance now given to do so in a good and thorough way. The space is there, both temporally and economically. This shows, not least, the letter from the operators who have until now provided the bulk of the funding together with the State. In the letter that is addressed to both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, you offer to do your part and also guarantee next year financial – all in order to give Swedish film the anchoring and processing that it so well deserves. Press the pause button, Minister of Culture! Take your chance! Make sure we get the long-term excitement about which you speak so warmly! Sven's K film deserves better.
i-c69328df67c5c45f-1208	Mr President, I would like to Much has already been said in this House by previous speakers and they have debated several issues. But you'll hear my voice for a little while anyway. Repetition is always good. Film is a natural and large part of Swedish cultural work and consumption in our country. Therefore, providing good conditions for a vibrant and strong film industry is an important part of cultural policy. As you know, we Swedish democrats have been exercising for a stronger democratic basis and for aid for production. We focus on better opportunities for the production of cultural heritage films. These are some of the factors that we believe make Swedish film better. I was going to touch on quotas. Quotation is not sustainable for us. We believe that a person's craftsmanship is not in the person's skin colour, political position, gender or sexual orientation, which has also been touched upon by previous speakers. It is probably the talent of filmmakers that is the decisive and independent variable for the quality of films. Competency should be rewarded, don't you think? The most important thing is the product. With this, I would like to refer to our motivational reservation 7 at paragraph 5, because we do not want to see an evaluation of something that we cannot initially support in the objectives of equality and diversity. The film agreement has served the Swedish film industry for 50 years, but it is outdated and not adapted to today's conditions. That is why it is a good thing that film policy is being debated. On the other hand, they are strange that the government, which calls itself a joint labour government, chooses to terminate the agreement without having either contacted other parties or has a ready-made model to replace today's. I wonder, Mr President, whether the government was really serious in making its move and whether it has any real ambition to help the Swedish film industry. The government presented its new film policy about a year ago, when the Committee on Culture was on a trip abroad, via a debate article about the fact that the film agreement had been terminated without anyone else's knowledge. As all Swedish parliamentary politicians in the Committee on Culture were involved, it was difficult for the other parties to analyse and respond to the government's moves. We Swedish democrats have participated in the film policy consultations between the Minister for Culture and the parties in the Riksdag. We have been generally open to dialogue and continued consultation on media and film policy issues. When the Alliance then chose to leave the film policy consultations, we set our foot when we wanted to continue the talks, including the views that we considered relevant and of great importance to the new film policy. We were open to participation provided that the film policy objectives and forms of funding for the film industry were open and open to discussion. We did this not for the government's sake, but for the future of the Swedish film industry. But it wasn't interesting to the government. Then there was no interest in us having a dialogue either. For us, it is important that it should be discussed and worked out on equal terms all the way for the benefit of Swedish film. As has previously been mentioned here this evening, we from the Committee on Culture attended the open hearing held in the Riksdag in February, where our Minister for Culture also attended and answered questions. If I am not mistaken, the Minister for Culture then said that she was ready to discuss the issue of funding, which she has not shown herself to stand up for in the past and afterwards. That is why it is worrying to be allowed to take on the news that the Minister for Culture seems to be taking the announcement so lightly. There are a number of us in here who wonder if the government has taken on board what has been asked for in all parts of the industry. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight reservation 13 at paragraph 11 on cinema fees, where we propose an unconditional investigation into a differentiated cinema fee for domestic and non-European films. It could give the Swedish film an important addition while increasing the domestic competitiveness of Swedish film. In addition to this, the government's impact assessment is substandard and incomplete, if I am asked. When consultation bodies have presented calculations that show that the government's policy can make less money for Swedish films in total, this perspective should be highlighted in the bill's impact assessment. Furthermore, the Government needs to develop impact assessments for small-scale cinemas and other actors in the film industry. Mr President, I would like to We cannot, of course, make decisions unless there is a well-founded analysis to deal with. We are calling on the government to deliver a full impact assessment in the near future. We Swedish democrats are also asking ourselves whether full nationalisation of film policy is the right way to go. We advocate film policy cooperation between state and industry, if possible. A state-wide film policy risks resulting in a one-sided, politically coloured film policy. The Government's proposal to keep the Swedish Film Institute together with three councils where everyone gets transparency but no one gets a mandate, we ask ourselves questions. If the board of directors of the Film Institute appointed by the Government is to appoint the members of the advisory councils, there is a risk that people with difficult views about the government's film policy and the work of the Film Institute will be removed. The industry councils risk becoming yes-owners, and this undermines the credibility of the industry councils. In our vision, we want to create the conditions for a strong film industry that is able to stand on its own feet to a large extent. We recommend that film policy be reworked once again and that solutions for an independent and independent film industry be developed where all trade-offs and compromises are well justified. It is through strong arguments and a holistic perspective that we can jointly take the strength needed to help Swedish film. For time's winning, we Swedish democrats are only in favour of reservations 4 and 16, but we are of course in favour of all our reservations. To conclude, I would like to wish Mr President and his family a pleasant summer. This is the last time that I am in the speaker's chair here, and I also wish you all a pleasant summer in the Committee on Culture.
i-UfDNMxkxBYoWunvZv8rZY5	Mr President, I would like to I motion for motion 2015/ 16:3366, motion 1 and 2. The Left Party also supports all the reservations expressed by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Culture and cultural expressions are never neutral, but are characterized by the concepts, contradictions and conditions of their time. Film is an art species that in itself contains many other arts. It is a medium of great impact that greatly shapes our image of the world and is crucial to how culture is formed in our time and how we understand ourselves and our society or contribute to it. Film policy therefore needs to be designed in such a way as to promote the production of films that challenge both norms and power structures and reflect realities and experiences that are rarely paid attention or given space. The Bechdel test gave us a quick and unsentimental conclusion about how male-dominated the film world was regarding both what was told and who was allowed to take place in the stories. A few years ago, the so-called A label was created in Sweden. The A-mark is given to films that pass the Bechdel test, i.e. films that portray two named women who talk to each other about something other than men. A-marking in itself does not lead to equality, and the Bechdel test does not measure whether films challenge the gender power system or portray women and men more equally than films in the community. But the fact that so many films do not pass the test is an indication that one of the women on film is not well represented. T estet therefore serves as a simple tool to make visible a structural imbalance that we have had for a long time. In order to increase gender equality and diversity in the film industry, the objectives of film policy must be aimed at and applied to the entire production process, from the development stage to production and distribution. This also means that the relationships that govern the economic flows in the industry need to change. The Government proposal states that national film subsidies will continue to be evenly distributed between women and men. When the results of the distribution of film support between the sexes are reported, the focus is usually on how many women have received film support, i.e. h from a large proportion of all those who have received support that are women. Of course, it is important that the distribution of aid is even numerically. However, the Left Party believes that it is also important to look at how film subsidies are distributed in terms of amounts and that in this respect there should be an effort to ensure that the distribution is even. Of course, the amount of support granted for individual films depends on many different factors, but the Left Party believes that it should be ensured as much as possible that we promote equality in this important medium. The Swedish Institute of Fine Arts' own figures for which pre-support for feature films was granted during 2001– 2005, except for children's and young people's films and documentaries, show that one third of the pre-support went to ten well-known directors. It is important that we continue to work for gender equality in the film industry.
