i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to present a Swedish climate grant that complements and goes beyond the EU's to COP 22. I would like to begin by underlining the enormous success that so many countries have already ratified the Pari Agreement and that it is now coming into force in connection with COP 22 in Marrakech. Having said that, it remains absolutely crucial that all countries raise their ambitions in order for us to have a chance to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This is why the government is pursuing a strong climate policy both internationally, within the EU and at home. In Sweden, this means, among other things, that we are continuing to work on the proposals from the Parliamentary Environmental Objectives Committee. Long-term governance and ambitious goals are needed for further transition, and we intend to return at the beginning of 2017 with a proposal based on the preparation's proposals. The government believes that the EU should also do more. The ambitions for 2030 are not enough for the EU to assume its responsibilities to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Unfortunately, the possibilities for taking decisions on changing objectives within the EU are currently small or non-existent. The government is therefore working towards a much stronger review clause in the implementation of the EU 2030 framework, to have a clear basis for deciding on an increased level of ambition in the context of the reviews to take place under the Paris Agreement. EU Member States act jointly in UN climate negotiations and have a joint commitment. This also applies under the Kyoto Protocol. The intention to act jointly means that the EU and its Member States are unable to communicate individual nationally determined contributions, separate from those to be granted by the EU and its Member States in accordance with the Paris Agreement's provisions on joint compliance. No EU country has deviated from that line, and it is not at present that Sweden should present its own, individual commitment to the UNFCCC. Sweden's climate work is far more ambitious than what is our responsibility under the EU acquis. The Government considers it important to make Sweden's work visible to become one of the first fossil-free welfare countries in the world and to show that there are countries that show clear leadership. During COP 22, this will be done, among other things, with the Fossil-free Sweden initiative. Jens Holm has also asked whether I intend to promote new sources of funding for UN climate funds and what reforms I intend to pursue to facilitate technology transfer and capacity building for developing countries. Here I would like to mention some of the many and substantial contributions that Sweden is making. We are the largest donor per capita to the Green Climate Fund, which will be a key tool for implementing climate investment and building capacity in developing countries. Sweden has made a commitment of the equivalent of $1 billion over a ten-year period for increased access to renewable energy in Africa within the framework of the Power Africa partnership, and the government, through Sida, is making substantial efforts towards capacity building. One concrete example of technology transfer is Sida's collaborative project in Zambia where an innovative fund will give 1 million people access to small-scale renewable energy. I agree that there is a need for more funding for climate action. During the year, the government has been very committed to developing a transparent roadmap to live up to the 100 billion dollar promise per year by 2020. It is important to stress that the focus must be on mobilising resources from a variety of sources, not least for climate adaptation. But they can only form a limited part of the overall funding. Different sources of funding, including innovative ones, will be important for international efforts and increased ambition in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Here, in particular, development banks – the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank – have important roles to play through the great potential they have to mobilise and act as catalysts for increased, private resources. The government attaches considerable importance to getting development banks to strengthen their climate work. In conclusion, Madam President, I believe that Sweden continues to show strong leadership and is a leading country in tackling the global climate challenge.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-20	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Climate Action for the answer to my interpellation. Yesterday, the COP 22 climate summit was launched in Marrakech, Morocco. It is the first climate summit after the important meeting in Paris when the Paris Agreement was adopted. Here I think it is important that there are countries that are driving this climate summit and the subsequent meetings. Sweden has a reputation for being such a driving country. It's important. We know that what the countries have promised so far with their contributions to the climate summit in Paris is not enough. A couple of weeks ago, UNEP presented a report, "Emissions Gap Report", where UNEP has gone through all the climate contributions to Paris. The report states that if you meet all the elements of the climate subsidy, the temperature increase will be just over 3 degrees Celsius by 2100. A temperature increase of 3 degrees Celsius is far beyond what is sustainable. Then we really will have a climate disaster all over the world. Different countries have different responsibilities. We know that the industrialised countries, not least Sweden, have a historic responsibility for our emissions. The World Wildlife Fund presented its Living Planet Report a few weeks ago, which reviews world emissions and looks in particular at the responsibilities of industrialised countries. It is noted that Sweden belongs to what is called the worst league together with the USA, Canada, Australia, Kuwait and other major emitters. We're good at changing things at home, and we're gonna keep doing that. If we also take into account the emission impact of our consumption of meat, foreign flights or all the gadgets we buy, we end up in the worst league. We live at a consumption level where four planets would be needed. That, of course, is totally untenable. That is why there is often a North-South conflict at the climate summits. The developing countries are telling us in the industrialised countries that we need to do more and that we need to help them change. That is why I think the issue of climate finance, which I raise in my interpellation, is so important. Isabella Lövin talks about a lot of things that Sweden does. I think it is good that we are doing them, but I want to know what we are doing to influence the EU and other countries so that climate funding is made up of new and additional money so that it is not taken away from aid. Recently, the EU came up with a figure – boasting a total of EUR 17 billion in climate finance. I would like to know whether the Swedish Government will work to ensure that this will be new and additional funds, that it will not be taken from aid. I would also like to ask the Minister for Climate Change why we do not go to COP 22 with our own climate position. The Minister replies that we must not do so for Europe, but I want to know: have we even tried? I do not mean that we should sabotage the EU's climate position in any way, but we could have a position of our own that goes beyond what the EU is proposing. Otherwise, it will be at this UN meeting as in many others: we have to knock on Norway's door and ask Norway to pursue a progressive climate policy. Why can't we go beyond the EU, Isabella Lövin?
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-29	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! I fully share Jens Holm's commitment to the climate issue. I also share the view that Sweden, like the entire industrialized world, has an exceptionally great responsibility for the emissions that we have caused by building up our prosperity in our countries. Now it is the poor countries that are twice as affected by this. They are going to get out of poverty, and climate change makes it much more difficult as deserts spread out, groundwater run down and sea level rises and destroys arable land by salt water entering, for example in Bangladesh. I have visited several of the places where it is most acute. Climate change is already a fact in Bolivia, Bangladesh, and in the small Pacific islands, perhaps just a few metres above today's sea level. We will do everything we can to change but also to provide the means to enable the most vulnerable countries to adapt. We have a climate change that is already visible today and difficult to stop even if we could stop at 1.5 degrees. Now we have to work to increase the ambitions of the world's countries. That is the positive thing about the Paris Agreement. There are review clauses – every five years one should be able to go in and raise ambitions. We must do so on the basis of the IPCC report, which will be published in 2018. Here we see opportunities when we work actively within the EU community. We must ensure that the EU's ambitions can also be raised as early as 2018 when the first IPCC report is presented so that we have a chance to slow down warming at 1.5 degrees. Then it's really urgent. Jens Holm asks why Sweden cannot go forward with its own contribution. We see that the EU has been an important player and has been able to stay together throughout the long process of climate negotiations. Yesterday we had a commemoration at the Department that the Paris Agreement has actually entered into force. These negotiations have been going on for over 22 years. We had a long line of ministers there who told us about the work – the slow laborious path to finding allies, finding countries that can hold together to push for a global agreement that is enormously difficult to achieve. As I said, it has been important to keep Europe together. If some EU countries would go in and make their own national contributions, even though together we have signed the agreement in a legally binding way, then perhaps some EU countries that do not even want these – which we think modest – ambitions would be able to submit theirs as a sort of trade-off. So we see it as very important to stick together in the European Group in order to push for greater ambition. Then, as Jens Holm has been involved in, we have a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on very ambitious and tough climate goals. We will show as an example that Sweden can become a fossil-free welfare nation. We shall be able to maintain our welfare, but at the same time we shall take the global responsibility that we actually owe the rest of the world to show that it is possible to switch to renewable energy.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-35	Madam President, I would like As far as how we are going to deal with the European Union is concerned, I do not think at all, as the Minister was, that it would somehow sabotage climate action at European level if there were countries that pushed and wanted more, countries that went to the climate summit and said: we see what we have agreed in Europe as a bottom sheet, but we want to do more. That is why we have a complementary position to that of the European Union. I would like to ask again: has Isabella Lövin at least tried to have a complementary position with the EU in view of this climate summit? I think Lövin sounds a bit like his predecessor. She herself refers to old environmental ministers. I once had this discussion with Lena Ek from the Center Party, and it was a bit the same thing: No, we can't. Brussels says so, and Brussels says so. Are we really gonna accept that? If we're going to push, we're actually going to have to fight every time we have the chance. I still believe that we could go beyond the EU with our own position at the climate summit. Then I asked a specific question, but I did not get an answer. The issue is the climate finance money that the EU is allocating to developing countries. Does this mean that the Swedish Government is demanding from the EU that this be what it calls new and additional funds? The reason I am saying new and additional funds is that it is important that this money is not taken from the EU's aid budget or Member States' aid budgets. It will be pointless to cut back on malaria in order to invest in more renewable energy. It must be new and additional money. I thought this was a Swedish profile issue, that we always said it, but I can't hear it from the minister. We have discussed this issue a couple of times in the EU Council, and I have not heard it then either. It has never been said that Sweden is pushing that this should not be taken from the aid funds. But the Minister can tell us here and now so that we can get clarity on this issue. I also raise the issue of technology transfer. The Minister replied to it in part, but I asked which political reforms Sweden intends to pursue so that emission reduction technologies can be transferred to developing countries in a simple and free way. If you look at the world's patents for the latest environmental technologies, such as renewable energy or low emissions from internal combustion engines, you can see that almost all of these patents are in business in the developed countries. Developing countries have almost no such patents at all. Using the latest technology costs a lot of money, because developing countries have to pay money in licenses and royalties to make use of the latest technology at all. I saw a report by the G77 think tank South Centre which states that developing countries have increased their payments for licences and royalties seven-fold over the last 15 years and that they are now paying only for licences and royalties about USD 50 billion a year. Here, I think, political reform could be about looking at a number of important environmental technologies that can quickly be transferred to developing countries and then either go in and pay for them or remove licences so that developing countries can use them freely. This is something that Sweden could push for the climate summit. I'd like to ask the climate minister if she's prepared to do that. Finally, I would like to ask you a question because the Minister himself deals with subsidies to the fossil industry and environmentally harmful subsidies in general. These subsidies must be phased out. It's about a lot of money. Does Sweden have a strategy to phase out its own environmentally harmful subsidies?
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-43	Madam President, I would like It is clear that achieving the climate targets requires much more than the $100 billion promised by the rich countries at the Copenhagen Summit in 2009. There we were talking about new and additional resources. Since then, the world has agreed on a new Agenda for Sustainable Development, Agenda 2030. Last year, there was also a major conference in Addis Abeba on the issue of financing for sustainable development. One of the 17 development goals concerns the climate issue. Another is about sustainable energy. There are goals that are about sustainable agriculture and sustainable access to water and food, as well as gender equality and other very important issues. The idea is that we will get a whole in global sustainability. Reducing inequalities between and within countries is also one of the objectives. The reason I mention this is that I feel that in the climate and development context – I am Minister for both development and development issues – there has been a consensus that there is no proper separation between these sources of funding. We must use all available means to build a sustainable world. We should not think that the USD 100 billion that would be new and additional funds will help when, at the same time, USD 550 billion went to fossil fuel subsidies last year. In addition, trillions of dollars are invested in motorways, airports and offshore drilling for oil in sensitive marine environments. What we need to talk about more and more is therefore to redirect all the financial flows towards sustainable development. It is not possible to separate climate finance so strictly from the rest of the funding. In fact, during the Marrakesh Summit, I did not hear anything about this with new and additional means. Instead, we are talking about the fact that the rich countries must provide the necessary resources, but that we must also address everything that goes in an unsustainable direction. This is extremely important. As far as the EU's commitment is concerned, we therefore find it difficult to see a distinction. We cannot have a certain type of aid that goes, for example, to the construction of coal power plants, to contribute to faster economic development, and another type that contributes to renewable energy. These agendas were very much married together. For the Swedish part, we contribute to the Green Climate Fund outside the aid framework, but we also have a significantly increased ambition within the aid framework: what we do should be environmentally sustainable. When it comes to why we have not tried to get our own Swedish contribution, we are legally bound by the Paris Agreement, which we have signed together with the European Union. I see no point in doing this off the record in the Paris Agreement, but Sweden should be a front country and show that we are going further. There the government, together with other parties, has very high ambitions.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-49	Madam President, I would like I agree that it is totally untenable that USD 500 billion goes to fossil subsidies in the world. This is going away, and we're going to subsidise what's changing our planet. But I asked the Minister if she was prepared to phase out our own environmentally harmful subsidies as a first step. We have many of these, and according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency they amount to about SEK 50 billion each year. So it's a lot of money. We in the Left Party have repeatedly exercised that we want a phasing-out plan for these subsidies. We understand that this is not going to happen overnight, but we still need to focus on eliminating these subsidies. Is the Minister prepared to support it? Then, Isabella Lövin, I honestly get a little worried about your reasoning when you can't actually take the words a lot of new and additional means a little bit into your mouth. It is established as a basis for the climate negotiations. As far as I know, it is written in the UNFCCC that our money in the form of climate finance should not be taken from aid but be new and additional funds. Anyone will understand that this 100 billion is not enough and that all the money flows must be sustainable, but if even climate funding is not to be made up of new and additional funds, I am rather worried. Here I would like a clear answer from the Minister in her last speech. Nor was I told whether the Minister was prepared to push for a patent reform or to select a number of important environmental technologies for developing countries so that they do not have to pay this USD 50 billion in licenses and royalties alone. Finally, I wish the Minister good luck at the climate summit. There is a need for countries to push ahead, and I hope that we will do so.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! Copenhagen agreed that it should be new and additional funds. What Sweden is pushing is that the 100 billion that was agreed must go to the purposes where there are no private sources or where it is at its most difficult. It is about the adaptation of the poorest countries to the effects of climate change, and it is about the poorest countries. We now see that investors, private capital and business see business opportunities in expanding renewable energy, not least in middle-income countries and where the lowest hanging fruits are found, so to speak. The new additional funding must therefore go specifically to those purposes where there is no other funding. To some extent, this can be married to what is being done in other areas of aid, and I do not think that is wrong. It may then be added that there is no generally accepted definition of new and additional resources. Here we have chosen to regard it as outside the aid framework. With regard to technology transfer, the existence of functioning institutions and a reception capacity in the countries most in need of technology dissemination are fundamental. There must be effective learning and a level of education that enables you to assimilate innovative technologies. There must be a business sector, markets and an education system. So there is a great deal we need to be able to help with in addition to the IPR area.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-57	Madam President, I would like Hans Linde has asked me what initiatives I intend to take in order for Sweden to develop a new and up-to-date strategy for development cooperation with Burkina Faso, what initiatives I intend to take to strengthen Sweden's development cooperation with Burkina Faso and whether I intend to visit Burkina Faso in the coming years. As Hans Linde notes, in October 2014, the government decided to suspend the phase-out of development cooperation with Burkina Faso decided by the previous government in December 2012 and resume aid. So there is no doubt that the government is defending our commitment to Burkina Faso. Burkina Faso has undergone a democratic transformation in the last two years. As Hans Linde mentions, since December 2015, Burkina Faso has a new popular president for the first time in 27 years. The country had previously fought back a coup attempt through massive popular resistance. Our waiting for a decision on the arrangements for continued assistance to Burkina Faso is due, among other things, to the fact that we wanted to wait for the end of the presidential elections in November 2015. The conduct of the elections and its outcome have therefore not led to any obstacles for us to proceed with the process; on the contrary, there is reason to deepen the support. The chances of continuing to achieve results in aid are good in Burkina Faso. Democracy and rights issues are central to society's development towards inclusion and better governance. Swedish support has contributed to important results in these areas. In the area of democracy, this was demonstrated in the context of the mainly peaceful transition to democracy in 2014-2015 in the monitoring and conduct of elections in 2015 – 2016 and in the ongoing work on developing a new constitution. Burkina Faso has also achieved important results in the field of environment and climate change, including in combating desertification and improving climate adaptation. Swedish support in environmental, water and climate adaptation is innovative, shows good results and has good potential for expansion. The Government intends to develop a new cooperation strategy for Burkina Faso. This will be done according to current practice where the Ministry for Foreign Affairs will produce an instruction to Sida which then makes proposals for the strategy. Within the framework of this process, we will have a dialogue with civil society to ensure together that our future engagement in Burkina Faso will be as good as possible. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs works continuously with travel planning and incoming and outgoing visits. We are in contact with the Burkina Faso government in various ways, and I promise to tell you if a visit to the country is at hand.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-65	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Isabella Lövin for the answer. One can really ask why I choose to ask an interpellation about Sweden's development cooperation with Burkina Faso. Among all the countries with which Sweden conducts bilateral development cooperation, Burkina Faso has one of the smallest programmes. We note that, unlike many other countries, Burkina Faso is not in an acute crisis or a major humanitarian disaster. The media interest in Sweden in Burkina Faso may be regarded as non-existent. And there are no strong actors or peoples' movements in Sweden who actively work for Burkina Faso – I would like to stress that there are ambassadors here in Sweden for Burkina Faso and that there are strong friends in Burkina Faso. But perhaps that is precisely why we need to have a debate in this House on Sweden's development cooperation with Burkina Faso. Swedish aid policy cannot be just a matter of short-term crisis management. Sometimes we have to raise our eyes and ask ourselves, ‘ Where can we contribute to long - term change? ' And Swedish aid must be governed by our added value, by where we can best make a difference and by where the needs are – not by which countries CNN or Svenska Dagbladet are currently reporting. We note that in recent years we have seen a series of setbacks in terms of democracy and human rights in large parts of the world. We see that the scope for civil society is being reduced. In several countries democracy is being undermined. Authoritarian leaders succeed in clinging to power. We see that the Arab spring did not lead to the wave of freedom that we had hoped for. But here actually Burkina Faso is clearly heading towards the current. After 55 years of independence, Burkina Faso held its first democratic election on 29 November 2015. It came about after the people had largely peaceful protests against the country's authoritarian President Blaise Compaoré, who has been in power for 27 years. Although the old elite tried to regain power, including by military coup d'état, the people managed to defend their democracy by peaceful means. I think it shows that there is no stronger force than men and women who join together for change, and I think that the population of Burkina Faso in many ways is an example. Peacefully, democracy and human rights have been defended. I can see that in this House we often talk about crises, disasters and setbacks and how to respond to them. But we also sometimes need to consider: How can progress be supported? How can we use the various resources that Sweden has as a country to strengthen and drive a fundamentally positive development in a country, such as Burkina Faso? How can we help build democratic institutions? How can we help to support the emergence of a free and independent press? How can we support the social movements that now every day in Burkina Faso reinforce respect for human rights? And how can we use both our aid and our political contacts with Burkina Faso to push for reform? In all these areas it is really about old Swedish parades. We are good at this in Swedish aid. We have produced results here in several countries. But we also know from experience of more than 50 years of Swedish aid that we will achieve results, clear strategies are needed, and it is required that our work is long-term and predictable. I therefore think it is good that Isabella Lövin is clear that the government intends to develop a new cooperation strategy for Burkina Faso. But it is a work that hastens. The strategy adopted today was drawn up 13 years ago. It was in a situation where Burkina Faso is considered a dictatorship. It was in a situation where we lacked today's knowledge of climate change and its consequences. Now we see that this strategy is only, as it were, extended by one year at a time. It's not sustainable. It does not lead to long-termism and does not lead to predictability. Therefore, I would like to ask Isabella Lövin: When can we expect a new strategy? When does a government decision come? Can we hope that we will get a new Swedish strategy already next year, 2017?
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-73	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Linde, for taking up this important perspective – that we have to work long-term and that we have to work conflict prevention and with peaceful societies and state-building before it's too late! Burkina Faso is one of the most positive examples in Africa right now. It has been able to resist developments in which President Compaoré, who has been in power for 27 years, was willing to change the Constitution in order to be able to sit in power for more time. The people turned that threat, and now they have actually had a democratic election. I can tell you about one of the things I'm very happy about. We had a visit to Sweden by the transitional government that took office in connection with this coup attempt. I met both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Women's Affairs and Gender Equality. They asked for a special thing. In order for women to be able to participate in the forthcoming elections, an important thing was needed. They must have identity documents. Otherwise, they cannot vote, and they cannot register to vote. Through Swedish support to Diakonia and another organisation, Sweden was able to contribute to 17 000 ID documents being issued to women who previously lacked the right to vote. This is a basic type of aid at its best. It actually gives people the opportunity to express their own power and to take power over their own situation in their own country. That's very good. At the moment, a new constitution is being drawn up. As I said, the old strategy was and is focused on democracy and human rights. It is still important that we support it. Swedish support has also been very decisive in terms of the fact that there was a popular force to protest in connection with the coup attempt. It is external assessors who have confirmed that this is the case. We are very pleased that we in the government, together with the Left Party, agreed to extend the strategy in Burkina Faso. On the direct question, whether we will have a new strategy ready for next year, I can say: It is definitely the government's intention that Sida should be able to present proposals for a strategy and that we should be able to go to decisions on it in 2017. It is, of course, too early to say exactly what that strategy will contain. It is about ownership, so we must listen to actors in the country and to civil society and make an assessment based on where Sweden has just added value. We see in itself that the existing strategy contains significant elements on climate and agricultural issues and water. It is a guess that these issues continue to be very important precisely in view of climate change. We are now also supporting improved statistical production. It is very important that you know which children are born and that you simply have reliable data so that you can do a proper community planning. It is a kind of aid that takes place in the quiet and may be much more active in the long run than this with water and blankets and humanitarian emergency aid.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-81	Madam President, I would like I welcome the announcement from Isabella Lövin that we can hope that there will be a new Swedish strategy in place next year. I also welcome the fact that Lövin is so clear that local ownership is needed, because Burkina Faso is one of those countries where there is a very active and strong civil society and it is important to listen to them and start from their priorities. I note that the challenges faced in Burkina Faso today are very well in line with the priorities set by Isabella Lövin's government, focusing on climate and environment, human rights and gender equality, conflict prevention and fragile states. All of this is highly topical in a country like Burkina Faso, especially if you look at issues of the environment and climate change. When Isabella Lövin talks about climate change, she often talks about small island states in the Pacific. But climate change in the Sahel on the outskirts of the Sahara is at least as dramatic. Seychelles and Fiji are in danger of being drowned in the sea, but Burkina Faso is in danger of being drowned in sand if we do nothing about the climate change we are seeing. I visited Burkina Faso in 2012, and during that visit it was quite obvious that you don't talk about what you do on that day climate change is here, but you talk about what you are doing today to face the climate change that is already noticeable. Climate change is clear and obvious. Rain is becoming increasingly irregular, access to water is increasingly uncertain and for many small farmers it is increasingly tough to grow the land, raise cattle and be able to ensure that their own family has food in their stomachs for the day. You can see in Burkina Faso and in neighbouring countries how people are forced to move because of climate change. It is people who have cultivated the land and raised cattle for thousands of years, but they can no longer live because the rains have stopped falling and the wells have dried out. What I also thought was so impressive in Burkina Faso, however, was that they so purposefully and organized, with very limited resources, to face these changes. Small farmers used their resources more efficiently to use water, and we could see that Burkina Faso has actually managed to increase food production. Access to clean water has been increased for more parts of the population. We see how the desertification has been halted. I saw figures on how only in the last three decades has it been possible to recover and regreen 300 000 hectares of land – in one of the poorest countries in the world. This is remarkable progress. At the same time, Burkina Faso is one of the world's absolutely poorest countries. One is in place 183 out of 188 of the UNDP's Human Development Index, and one will not alone fix this. It is also important to remember that it is hardly the people of Burkina Faso who have created the climate changes that are already hitting the country so hard, but we are in the North. We have caused the climate change that is now affecting the very small farmers who have least created climate change in the world. This really underlines the importance of getting a new strategy in place, because it is not possible to deal with climate change and climate change through one-year projects. It takes a long-term perspective, which is why I welcome the message I have received from Isabella Lövin today. I would also like to emphasise the importance of making a trip to Burkina Faso. My own experience is that it was extremely instructive to see both the challenge and the success in Burkina Faso. There are plenty of good examples in terms of democratisation and climate action that we can use and spread to other countries with which we have international development cooperation. It would also be an important political signal with a high-level visit from Sweden that provides support for a newly elected democratic leadership and for the social movements that have courageously driven and carried out the democratisation of their country.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-91	Madam President, I would like In fact, I have visited Burkina Faso in my previous capacity as a Member of the European Parliament. I was there at an ACP meeting in Ouagadougou and made some field visits outside the city and saw the enormous challenges you have when it comes to drought and being able to grow land. The results that Hans Linde tells us about are therefore fantastic. In addition to human rights and democracy, Swedish support has so far focused on environmentally sustainable development. It is about integrated water resource management, access to water and sanitation, climate adaptation and sustainable forestry, so to some extent Sweden has also been able to contribute to this positive development. This is indeed very pleasing, for if the deserts spread out, the survival possibilities for humans will be completely destroyed. Therefore, one should never see the environmental issue as some kind of isolated issue dealing with animals and nature or biodiversity: it is about people's opportunities for economic livelihood and planning for their future. I agree that it is very important to have a long-term perspective in the planning of development cooperation as well. Here, then, we will develop a new strategy to make it possible. It is also important that the right political conditions on the ground in Burkina Faso are allowed to do so, and for that reason we have waited for the elections to see how it would come out. Now there really is a dialogue partner in the country that we must also be able to coordinate with, and then we will look at Burkina Faso's new five-year national development strategy that they themselves have developed. They expect to cover almost 65% of the costs from their own budget and, in addition, they seek support in the form of loans, investments and increased aid. It is a very ambitious approach to developing the country. A number of priority areas have been identified that have links with our development cooperation, including environmental and climate issues, democracy and rights issues, gender equality and, not least, stable and sustainable state-building. It is therefore important that we really do this in a true partnership and with ownership in the country, which is also a prerequisite for long-term successful development cooperation, or whether we should call it aid. It is a nuance that I find interesting to emphasise: we should do this in cooperation and in order to stabilise these countries. As Hans Linde says, Burkina Faso is currently in place 183 out of 188 of the UNDP's Human Development Index, and it is very dependent on small-scale agriculture and aid. Finally, I would like to say that I definitely do not dismiss a forthcoming visit to Burkina Faso. There are several countries in the region where Sweden also has development cooperation and which are well worth a visit, such as neighbouring Mali, which is plagued by terrorism and al-Qaeda in the Maghreb. We really want to benefit those who still have peace and stability, and here it is important that we maintain our partnership.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-99	Madam President, I would like I welcome once again the news I have received from Isabella Lövin today. I had a debate with one of her predecessors about Burkina Faso, and then the tone was a little different. I am pleased that Isabella Lövin also sees the Swedish added value in Burkina Faso. Another strong argument for Swedish involvement is that there is hardly any crowding among the donors in Ouagadougou. Unfortunately, we have seen that the global work since the Paris Agenda 2005 on donor coordination and clear division of roles has sometimes led to the opposite. It has become a follow-on-John game where you follow each other out of countries and into countries, and Burkina Faso is one of the countries that have suffered from it. Although the needs are obvious and although we see that aid is delivering very good results despite difficult conditions, very few countries or multilateral organisations are in place. Other countries, such as Holland, have in recent years chosen to phase out their aid. I therefore believe that Sweden can really make a difference. It is good that there is a strategy in place, but the government does not have to wait for a new strategy to scale up the Swedish efforts in Burkina Faso. In the budget that is now on Parliament's table and which I assume the Parliament will adopt, the government proposes that bilateral aid to Africa should increase by SEK 800 million next year. This creates scope for the government to increase and scale up our efforts in Burkina Faso, for example in forestry, agriculture, research statistics, gender equality and human rights, through regulatory letters and government decisions today. We could do more there quite quickly, because we see in the rear-view mirror that aid to Burkina Faso has been more than halved in recent years. Sida has also brought home staff. So there is an opportunity to quickly scale up, and therefore my last question will be to Isabella Lövin: Can we hope that once the next budget is in place, the government will be able to scale up the Swedish aid efforts in Burkina Faso?
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-105	Madam President, I would like I would like to continue to emphasise that it is important that we prepare the new strategy in the usual order, which is that the government first asks Sida to come up with an analysis and that, based on it, we ask them to produce a proposal for a strategy that can then be decided by the government. When we have more meat on our feet, we must of course make a decision about the volumes and whether they can increase or not. It is difficult to increase aid volumes on the basis of the current strategy when planning is as it is. We must also safeguard, as Mr Linde said, the long-term nature of the efforts we are making. We can't start with anything now that might end within a year or so. Through the regional strategy, humanitarian action may also be relevant in some cases and also in global action. It is therefore also possible for other measures to be taken outside the bilateral aid strategy. There is nothing to rule out that there can be specific actions that can be supported through Swedish aid that does not take place within the framework of the bilateral strategy. To conclude, I regret the fact that there is a herd mentality among donors and that so quickly you go on newspaper headlines and forget those who may do a little better but need long-term support in order to achieve peaceful development. In this work, Sweden will be a firm partner for these countries.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-108	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what I intend to do to reduce the regulatory burden for Swedish farmers. The government and our authorities are actively working to develop a business policy that promotes jobs and growth. As far as agriculture is concerned, the government is now taking a stronger approach by developing a food strategy. In this, the government takes a broad approach to issues that are important for competitiveness in both the food and agricultural sectors. Simplification of the regulatory framework is one of several important elements here. The Government's intention is to find broad parliamentary participation in the Riksdag in order to create long-term goals and a strategy for the sector. The Government believes that work on simplification of national rules should continue during the term of office. Simplifying business enables companies to spend more time developing their business, which affects both their competitiveness and their willingness and ability to employ. In order to have an impact, the simplification work needs to be carried out at all levels that affect companies. It is important that rules are effective so that the administration required to comply with the regulations is kept to a minimum. The service, treatment and short processing times of public authorities are also of great importance for a competitive business environment. Information provided by enterprises to government authorities should, in essence, be done by electronic means. In the face of all regulations, including the regulations of the authorities, an impact assessment must be carried out that includes assessing the costs for companies and examining different alternatives to regulatory design. The Government intends to step up efforts to improve the quality of impact assessments through increased support and through training to regulators. A good impact assessment will ultimately lead to more effective rules and thereby to increased competitiveness and growth. Oscarsson states in his interpellation that we are probably the most ambitious country in the world when it comes to taking responsibility for the environment, animal welfare, health and quality. Like Oscarsson, I am very proud of this. The government wants to simplify the business environment while maintaining this responsibility and disseminating these values in EU cooperation. The work on simplifying the regulatory framework shows that it is partly a myth that we need to lower the level of the objectives of what we want to regulate. In fact, there is considerable scope for simplification for businesses while maintaining high targets. It's about making the rules smarter to achieve the desired goals. It is also important to modernise regulations based on how companies develop based on new knowledge and technology.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-113	Madam President, I would like My interpellation, which deals with the regulatory burden of agriculture, has been written because I constantly get questions about this on my travels in the country, and I feel that this is an urgent issue for many. It must be a setback for us in politics that farmers' regulatory burden does not decrease but, on the contrary, increases. Recently, the Agriculture magazine presented a survey showing that the number of rules that a Swedish farmer must adhere to has increased from 274 rules 20 years ago to 605 rules today. At present, there are requirements for farmers to keep 22 different records, and for 36 different activities or documents, farmers must apply for a permit. Worst is it for farmers involved in cattle farming and in milk associated with crop cultivation. At present, they have around 450 legal requirements to take into account. Not only is the milk price very low, but apart from that, this comes as onions on the salmon. When I visited Nässjö some time ago, there was a dairy farmer who told me that every morning when he wakes up, he's thinking about what rule he's going to break that day. And there's too many people I meet. It's bad, and it's not just about a little rule here or there, because it's about thousands of crowns that the farmer can get fined if it's just a tiny error. It can't go on like that. I would like the Minister to set his foot, and I would like an answer from the Minister for Rural Development about what he intends to do in concrete terms.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-117	Madam President, I would like I share Magnus Oscarsson's concern about the growing regulatory burden in Swedish agriculture. The study that Oscarsson relates to has looked at a 20-year period. In the first ten years, the number of rules increased by 187 and in the second period by 143. Despite the fact that we have had different governments of different colors, all of which have wanted to reduce the number of rules, there has been an increase. We can see that there has been an increase in rules since the entry into force of the European Union in 1995, when we had a common agricultural policy. It is a complex agricultural policy in many respects which has also involved a great many regulations. It's about pushing. There must be simplification, not least within the EU framework and then in the national rules. This job has to go on all the time. The research study referred to by Oscarsson is interesting and has just begun at Alnarp. 100 companies will be monitored on this issue. I will, of course, follow this study closely. Maybe we shouldn't paint everything in black. There are also light points, Magnus Oscarsson. The Swedish Board of Agriculture's good initiative The simplification journey has led to 100 actions carried out. I am not saying that it is enough, but it is an initiative in line with how we must continue to work. The simplification journey has shown that many farmers believe that good communication is crucial. There are many times misses there. Service and treatment must also be improved. It is important to have a balance in application and not go beyond what the EU acquis allows. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. This needs to permeate government governance so that companies can focus better on their business. The Government has objectives for simplifications until 2018 in two different parts. The first part is better service. It will be easier to provide data, better service and shorten processing times. The second part is more appropriate rules. Here the aim is to promote business growth and to reduce regulatory costs. In the past, simplification was focused solely on administrative costs due to rules. The 40% reduction in administrative costs, referred to by Magnus Oscarsson in the interpellation, is about regulations for traceability in the food chain. This was of course a good thing, but in the survey carried out by the Swedish Agency for Growth, the companies replied that they have not noticed this simplification. As a result, the alliance government broadened the target. That work continues with this government, because it is important that we broaden this.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-127	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Just as you are concerned, it is not all the fault of this government, but of previous governments as well. However, it is good to have a discussion on this, because when I meet a peasant corps that is so frustrated, I feel that we need to bring it up in the Chamber and discuss it with the Minister. It is good that the Minister understands the frustration of farmers, but that is not enough. It has to go from talk to workshop. Recently, there was a competitiveness inquiry. It clearly shows that with this regulatory burden, Swedish farmers are reducing their chances of competing in comparison with European farmers. Unfortunately, this is not the only burden our Swedish farmers have. There are more weights in the Swedish farmer's backpack. It is not just about more and more rules but also about taxes. This applies, for example, to the diesel tax, for which you as Minister are responsible. Now there is also talk of the government introducing a road-wear tax. Charges and regulatory burdens are increasing, and there are a lot of costs for farmers all the time. That's good what you're saying, Minister, and things are going on. But I wonder: When can farmers see an effect of what you have said today?
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-133	Madam President, I would like Digitalisation is changing a lot both in our country and globally. IT-driven operations create growth and new jobs. It also requires a lot of innovation. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the word agitating comes first in the government's target for the simplification work. It is important that Sweden is digital, transparent and innovation-friendly in order to have more competitive companies. We will have a clear focus on simplification and digital processes that are adapted to the company's conditions. A very good example is the Swedish Tax Agency, which has come a long way in these matters. Many other authorities are now following. It should be easier to make changes if something turns out to be wrong. Policy needs to take a broader and more long-term approach in order to achieve concrete results. An important workshop, which it is good that Magnus Oscarsson is calling for, is the food strategy that the government has developed. In the proposal for a bill that I know Magnus Oscarsson has read there is a whole chapter about terms and conditions. It is important that we find a common understanding in order to be able to deal with these issues that are so important for Swedish agriculture, for the whole industry and for Swedish consumers. Therefore, the government is seeking a broad settlement in the Swedish parliament on the food strategy. As I said, it is also a matter of a great deal of simplification. As far as Magnus Oscarsson is concerned, the Swedish Board of Agriculture works continuously to simplify its regulations, in addition to the simplification journey. Let me give you a few examples. Conditional drug use for dairy farmers simplifies and develops disease prevention. Another example is simpler rules on voluntary animal health programmes. These rules have been very well received by the industry. A third example is more flexible grazing for dairy cows. The number of days is maintained but the administration is reduced. This has also been welcomed by the industry. It's not enough, but there are some examples of us having a workshop. I promise Magnus Oscarsson that I will not release these questions. This work will continue.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-142	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answers. I think it sounds hopeful, because you see the worries. Nevertheless, I wonder: When exactly will we see this? There is an incredible frustration that the regulatory burden is increasing all the time, and you wish you could see that it decreases. Because of this burden, it is difficult for the Swedish dairy farmer, for example, to compete on the same terms as the European farmer. This is where the government can actually do something. The Minister can put his foot down and talk to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, for example, about how to handle farmers when you are out and meet them on site. I hear that farmers believe that the inspectors who come to the farm do not ask how they can help, but rather how they can overturn. I think you should have with you how to get this done, Minister. For example, you mention the Swedish Tax Agency, which I think has done an outstanding job in managing customers. I wish it had been the same with the customers that the Board of Agriculture inspectors meet. I wish milk farmers and farmers could see a change at all. I hope that this will not take ten years, Minister, but perhaps only a month.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-146	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson asked when exactly it will be implemented. The examples from the Swedish Board of Agriculture that I lined up have been implemented. That work is done, but there is much more to do. One job that is not clear is the food strategy. I hope it will come as soon as possible. I know you're a rural politician who wants very well, Magnus Oscarsson. You've had the opportunity to make a difference, and I wish you'd help here in the final stages so that we can get the food strategy together. It's a tough job many times. The previous government worked hard to bring about simplifications when this programming period for the EU budget was designed. We've got a greening. The regulatory framework that exists is very difficult, and the proposal that the Commission has now come up with would further exacerbate the situation. There we have acted together with 20 other countries to get clearer rules. They are not good, but we have partly managed to get the Commission to postpone the strict rules. You want to change in a worse direction until 2018, so we will see if we succeed fully. Another major problem is cross-compliance. There are things where we have managed to influence the Commission in relation to farmers' sanctions. They have been changed so that a mistake made for the first time should not entail such harsh sanctions. We are pressing for a lot at European level and we are also working on the national regulatory framework. Thank you, Magnus, for a good debate on a very important issue!
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-152	Madam President, I would like Anti Avsan has asked the Minister for Home Affairs whether the investigation into a developed and secure communication solution for the police, defence and rescue services has provided information to the Government, the conclusion he draws from the information provided where appropriate, whether he and ultimately the Government are prepared to take the initiative to exempt part of the 700-megahertz band from the auction procedure decided by PTS and to remove this part of the band for vital social communication and whether, in a situation where there is no other realistic alternative to solution, he should apply the precautionary principle, which reasonably means that an auction of the frequency space needed for vital social communication should be excluded until further notice. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Since the interpellant wrote the question, the government has decided that the broadcasting space 694 – 790 megahertz may be opened up for licensed television broadcasts until 31 May 2018. The decision means that the so-called 700-megahertz band is not available for other purposes. It has prompted the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to cancel the auction that was scheduled to start on 1 December. The Government's ambition is to create the conditions for an allocation of frequencies within the band as soon as possible. Depending on the outcome of the measures that the government is now taking, i.e. the legal review and assignment to MSB, it is possible that there may be conditions for allocation before 31 May 2018. The background to the decision is that developments in security policy make it increasingly important for public order, safety, health and defence actors to be able to communicate and exchange information effectively and safely with each other. The Government makes the assessment that there is a need for a legal review of the regulation governing the right to use radio frequencies in parts related to the interests of societal stakeholders and intends to return to the issue. There is a need for frequencies for better mobile coverage and broadband access in all parts of Sweden. The use and need for mobile broadband is increasing. In rural areas, there is an extra need as fixed broadband is often not available in the form of high-capacity fibre. At the same time, it is essential that public order, safety, health and defence actors can communicate and exchange information effectively and safely with each other. The Government's view is that the need for mobile coverage and broadband access in all parts of Sweden and the need for communication for public order, safety, health and defence actors should be reconciled. PTS is investigating questions about permission to use radio transmitters in different frequency bands. This task is carried out by the Authority under the Electronic Communications Act(2003:389). PTS is a highly competent authority that is at the forefront of spectrum management. The government has full confidence in PTS as a spectrum management authority. On 28 July 2016, the Government Office commissioned an investigator to propose a developed and secure communication solution for public order, safety, health and defence actors. The investigation also concerns questions about frequency space and will be finalized on 28 February next year. In accordance with a Government Decision on 31 October 2016, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency will also launch preparatory work for the development of a future communication solution for key actors in society. The assignment shall be presented no later than 1 November 2017.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-160	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The situation on the part of the government has changed a little since I wrote the interpellation, but it is still important to point out the importance of this issue. There are extensive views from many authorities, which point to the importance of finding a solution that works. Rakel, which is the system we have today for socially important activities and communication between different actors, does not meet today's requirements. Among other things, the possibility of image transmission is lacking, and there are also other shortcomings. Our environment is uncertain, and we face major challenges both within Sweden and when it comes to external impact. Tomorrow, among other things, we will be discussing a report in this House on hybrid threats. It is highly relevant when looking at this type of question. In order to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges, the Swedish Armed Forces, the police, emergency services, ambulances and other important social activities need to be able to communicate safely with robust mobile broadband. I will not mention all the events where lessons can be learned, but there are several. Nevertheless, I will mention two Swedish, namely the attack on Bryggargatan in Stockholm in 2010 and Västmanlandsbranden in 2014, which reveals various shortcomings in systems that could be addressed with a better, well-functioning mobile broadband system for vital social communication. It can be noted that the 700-megahertz band has a very good coverage throughout the country and would be a good option for a new community network for mobile communications. As the expert authority has pointed out, there will be no equivalent possibility for the next 20 years. What is perhaps a little remarkable, regardless of what solution it will ultimately be, is that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency did not impose any specific requirements for robustness and security in connection with the auction process that would have begun now, if the government had not taken the decision it made. I think it was good that the government did, so to speak, a half point in order to try to resolve the issue of the need for social communication. I mentioned that a frequency band won't be available for another 20 years. There is also talk of other solutions. But the question is, do they work? The Government set up an investigation following the decision of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. I want to remember that it was July 28th that that investigation was set up. The directives say that information should be provided to the government, and that should have been done on 15 October. I do not know in what form the information has been provided. Maybe it's been verbal. However, according to the Directives, the main conclusions would be presented in an appropriate form. I suppose that is the information that has led to the government's position on this issue, namely that it does not speed up the evacuation of the 700-megahertz band. My question to the Government is therefore: Has the information provided led to the government's position? As far as I understand it will also be submitted with an additional interim report – a written document – on 15 November. Will it be done?
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-172	Madam President, I would like In answer to Anti Avsan's questions, I can say that there are two investigations that the government is waiting for. One shall reply on 28 February and the other on 1 November next year. This is linked to a long-term dialogue and discussion on how to use the so-called 700-megahertz band and on the need of the blue light authorities to replace Rakel and to develop new systems for the future for secure communication in both peacetime and more uncertain times. The discussions that have taken place within the government, and in previous investigations that have provided their information, have come to the conclusion that the changed security policy situation that has developed for quite a long time is the background to the decision that the use of the 700-megahertz band is extended so that TV can continue to be broadcast until a bit into 2018. This in turn has caused PTS to stop the auction that was planned to take place in the near future. In this situation, we await clarification from MSB and the investigation that has been set up previously to see how the situation is evolving and clarified. As this is done, PTS is likely to make new decisions.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-174	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the additional information. If I'm going to be really tight, I would say that the security policy situation is serious and strained, and that has been for some time. It is possible that the direct reason why the government nevertheless takes a position in this positive way is not that there has been any decisive change in the very recent past. Although the Government does not make it clear, I suppose it is rather the case that it is actually information that has come to the Government, perhaps from the investigation that gave the main conclusions in the appropriate form on 15 October. There is no doubt that there is an obvious need for a solution to meet the needs that exist. I would like to point out that we often talk about the need for functioning mobile broadband in sparsely populated areas because cable cannot be extended everywhere and so on. I would also like to emphasise the need to be able to get in touch with the police, rescue services, ambulances and other important social functions. If you do not have that security in sparsely populated areas, access to mobile surfing is less important. This security must be guaranteed first of all. When it comes to rural areas and rural areas in Sweden, there are a number of different challenges for the authorities that guarantee security in society. This requires, as it stands today, that a solution should preferably be provided within the commercial part of the 700-megahertz band. The proposal from several authorities and others who have submitted comments during the process of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is that it is 2x10 megahertz that should be excluded. If the government cannot resolve the issue, the obvious starting point should be that as long as one cannot say that there is another solution that works for vital social communication in the way required in terms of robustness, availability, safety level, coverage, absolute priority, functionality and the possibility of collaboration within the system, one should not auction out the entire 700-megahertz band but exclude it. I am not going to engage in any technical discussion, although I could possibly do so to some extent. J ag is not sent to handle such a discussion fully. But there are technical problems with the other solutions that have been discussed so far. There is no solution which, so far, could meet all the needs that need to be met in the context of a solution that does not mean excluding, so to speak, part of the commercial part of the 700-megahertz band. Against this background, I wonder a little bit about what is stated in the response from the Government that there is a need for a legal review of the regulation governing the right to use radio frequencies in parts relating to the interests of socially important actors. What kind of legal review is this? There are a lot of wordings, including a Teracom opinion, which says that network operators should not be those who have an interest in consumers at the end of the chain. But what kind of legal review is this about?
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-180	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that digitalisation is changing society to a very large extent. It changes the conditions for our defence and the security of the blue light authorities in general, and it requires completely new opportunities and methods for them to communicate and use and exploit these opportunities effectively. It also changes the conditions for households. Not least, it is important that we have good access to future-proof networks and the Internet to rural households. It is often there that safety and health issues are most important from this point of view. It takes a long time for an ambulance to come or to get in touch with the health centre. There are also great opportunities. I would like to say that there is a revolution going on in the area of health which allows people at home to take advantage of healthcare in a completely different way from before. It is therefore not only the function of the bluelight authorities that requires good broadband and good mobile coverage across the country. Households' ability to use the services that society can offer in the future also requires this. My assessment is that it will be even more important in quite a short time to get this out throughout the country. That is why we must be able to meet both of these interests. I and the other government believe that it is possible to meet both of these interests. The 700-megahertz band is an important part of managing access to good mobile communications throughout the country. The model and method previously advocated by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency did not ignore the needs and interests of the blue light authorities, but had set aside part of the 700-megahertz band for this. However, MSB and some others of the authorities did not consider it to be good enough. In that situation, it was of course natural to give MSB once again the opportunity to clarify what its real needs are and what timetables it has in terms of meeting its interests, and that is to a large extent the background to what we are discussing now. With regard to the legal review we are talking about, it is not established what it should contain, but in this context it could be about giving the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency additional tools to deal with security policy interests in its assessments, for example.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-185	Madam President, I would like I can only say that I have read the experiments with image transfer from ambulances to hospitals that have improved the possibilities of providing patients with good care and also improved the ability to survive different types of accidents and medical conditions. This cannot be done in a safe way if you do not have the possibility of image transfer – for example in part of the 700-megahertz band. It would be possible to transfer images for this type of activity, not least with regard to patient confidentiality. If you look at the award decision, or the auction decision, from the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, you can see that what was excluded there were spaces that were not really useful. They were for so-called closure capacity and had to be combined with another spectrum. There is no other country that has licensed closure capacity in the 700-megahertz band only. Other solutions were also pointed out, but those who are technically knowledgeable have said that none of those solutions would work – in any case, there is no such example anywhere else so far. I think that this is a rather uncertain basis if one actually believes that the safety of society and of ultimately people is important. I believe that this is still the basis for us to be able to give people the opportunity to live safe and good lives and use mobile broadband for everything else that is needed in life. I share the view of the Government that this offers very great opportunities and facilitates life for people, but it is also important to ensure physical safety and to be able to intervene when accidents occur and when crimes are committed.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-188	Madam President, I would like Perhaps we can conclude by saying that we basically seem to agree that both of these interests are important. It is important that we manage to unite and achieve them, and that is also the government's starting point on these issues. I do not think that one should be so worried that this creates problems. What I have seen as the most negative thing about the decisions we have now made is that there will be some uncertainty about how long the bands remain unused. What we are talking about is a limited natural resource, and it is clear that there is a great point in using that resource because it is now in demand in many places. I therefore hope that we will be able to arrive at a situation as soon as possible in which we will have a decision and a new auction, as well as a system in which the interests of the blue-light authorities will be met.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-190	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me five questions related to the free trade agreement between the EU and its Member States and Canada, CETA. I will begin with Mr Svenneling's first question, which concerns a panel discussion in the House of Europe quoted in the Europa portal and a statement on my part expressing my view of the misconceptions contained in the debate on trade agreements. I have been following trade policy for a long time. I am surprised at how much ignorance exists and how many errors are made in different contexts about trade in general and CETA in particular. I strongly expressed myself in the panel discussion in the European House, because I am critical of misinformation circulating regarding CETA – for example, the error that CETA gives companies the right to violate Swedish law. This boosts mistrust of the EU and trade agreements, but also of our political system as a whole. Many critical questions and claims regarding CETA receive satisfactory answers when reading the legally binding common interpretation instrument developed regarding CETA. Svenneling's second question concerns the measures I intend to take to ensure that trade union rights are protected in CETA. Here I would like to start by saying that CETA contains provisions to work towards raising standards and actively to implement the ILO's important conventions. CETA also explicitly states that companies should not compete under worse conditions. I and the government have actively pushed to ensure this, and at the Swedish initiative there is a further writing in the joint interpretative instrument. It clarifies, among other things, that CETA does not affect the right to negotiate, conclude and enforce collective agreements and take collective action. The three trade union organisations – LO, TCO and Saco – have welcomed the legally binding clarification of the interpretative instrument and thus all three have expressed their support for CETA. Svenneling has also asked me how to ensure that states' right to regulate is not undermined and hindered by CETA. First of all, I would like to remind you that CETA explicitly reaffirms the right of states to legislate in order to achieve legitimate public interests in areas such as health and the environment. This is further clarified in the common interpretative instrument interpreting the content of the agreement. CETA neither amends Canada's, EU's or Sweden's protection legislation nor limits the right to determine the level of protection that each party wishes to have in its territory. The Government has carried out an analysis of the possible effects of the agreement on the environment, human and animal health and democratic decision-making. The Government also intends to continue to analyse the impact of the agreement and to develop proposals to counteract possible effects on this. The fourth question concerns what measures I intend to take to combat Sweden's being sued by the Canadian mining industry. Firstly, I would like to point out that in Sweden it is Swedish law that applies. If a Canadian company wants to invest in Sweden, it must meet all the environmental and labour law requirements. Sweden has predictable and transparent legislative and judicial processes. At the same time, I would like to remind you that Swedish law already gives all industry and investors the right to correct and predictable treatment. Prior to a Swedish ratification of CETA, the Government intends to analyse that the Swedish regulatory framework is so clear that disputes should not arise. Finally, Svenneling has asked me against which background I have promoted the provisional application of CETA and which parts of the agreement I intend to work for in the future should be applied or not applied on a provisional basis. The government supports CETA coming in as soon as possible to benefit our companies and consumers. It is therefore positive that the agreement should be provisionally applied by the EU until it can be concluded by the parties. The European Commission has proposed – and the Council has decided – that the scope of the provisional application of CETA should follow previous practices, as expressed, for example, in EU agreements with Peru, Colombia and South Korea. Investment protection, including the State-Investor Dispute Settlement Mechanism and portfolio investment, does not enter into force on a provisional basis.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Commerce, for your answer. The trade and investment agreement CETA – between the EU and Canada – is the first agreement signed by Sweden that so clearly transfers power from democratically elected assemblies, such as the Riksdag, to large companies and their lobbyists. In fact, the CETA agreement is a consequence of the Treaty of Lisbon, the EU's constitution. When Sweden said yes to this, the decision-making power moved from here to the EU and Brussels. Trade policy was one of the areas that moved. But the CETA agreement is about so much more than trade policy. It is about what opportunities we want to shape our society. The agreement contains two very problematic elements, which together could lead to a double lock on progressive politics, regardless of which government we have in Sweden. The first part is about regulatory cooperation, which opens the way for big business lobbyists to influence future legislation. The second part concerns the dispute settlement mechanism known as the ICS – previously referred to as ISDS – which allows large companies to sue states when they are not satisfied with political decisions. The Swedish debate on trade policy is very different from the debate taking place in many European countries, where the pressure in the debate is considerably higher than here. Nevertheless, many critical voices have been raised in Sweden. This applies to trade unions such as Kommunal, Bygg and Seko. This applies to environmental organizations such as Friends of Earth, Greenpeace and the Nature Conservation Association. This also applies to social movements, such as Shift, and consumer organisations, such as Sweden's Consumers. But among the political parties, the Left Party has stood alone in its criticism of CETA, TTIP and TISA. Despite this broad variety of critics, Ann Linde, according to media reports, has called us who are opposed to the trade agreement horribly liars. The fact that the debate has been tough at times is one thing, but calling one's opponents a horrible liar is quite another. The question is whether it is me, Jens Holm or anyone else that the Minister means to spread disinformation. I think it would be nice if the Minister backed off and explained himself, because I have never said that companies would have the right to violate Swedish legislation. Madam President, I would like The right of states to regulate is a fundamental element of our democracy. The CETA agreement contains a declaration – which the Minister called a legally binding document – which establishes how CETA should be used. The question, however, is what this declaration is worth. Does the declaration have any legal effect in relation to a review in the ICS dispute settlement mechanism? And if it is so very good, why could the declaration not just be part of the text of the agreement? What is this declaration worth on the day that large companies through extensive lobbying affect the legislation before it has been decided in the Riksdag? What is the value of the day that large companies sue Sweden for billions for decisions made here in the Swedish parliament, or decisions made by our authorities or in one of our municipalities? I'd say it's not worth much. Regardless of how it is turned around, it has affected and restricted our right as a state to legislate and regulate in order to protect people and the environment. We now see that many countries are moving in the opposite direction. When signing trade agreements, these do not contain dispute resolution mechanisms of this type, such as ISDS. This means that countries such as India and Brazil have been excluded from certain negotiations. Australia is also opposed to dispute settlement mechanisms after Philip Morris has been sued for its tobacco product labelling and won, not for reasons of substance but for technical knockout. I think this would be a simpler and better way to go for both the EU and Sweden, especially as we know that 97% of all respondents to the European Commission hearing said that they do not want such a dispute settlement mechanism.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-208	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Håkan Svenneling for this important interpellation and the Minister for the answer to it. This is about CETA, the trade and investment agreement with Canada. As this is about Canada, we could look at how Canada has turned out in connection with another agreement – the so-called NAFTA agreement – which was concluded in 1994 with the USA and Mexico. The NAFTA agreement, as proposed in the CETA agreement, provides for the possibility for companies to sue states with a so-called dispute resolution mechanism. Canada is now, at least, the second most industrial country in the world and is being sued time and again by North American companies, mainly oil companies and mining companies. Since 1994, Canada has received no less than 35 lawsuits. Canada has had to pay more than SEK 1.5 billion in damages, mainly to companies in the United States. Canada has had to spend about SEK 500 million in legal costs alone to pay lawyers and fees to dispute settlement tribunals and the like. It is primarily in the environmental field that companies have sued Canada. The country wanted to ban the export of something called MMT, which is part of fuel. I don't really know what it is, but at least it's not something I'd put on the sandwich for my kids. The aim was to ban the export of environmental pollutants PCBs. Demands were made for the oil company Mobil Investments – which is part of Exxon Mobil, one of the world's largest oil companies – in terms of their oil extraction and research in the North Atlantic. In all these cases Canada has lost. And most recently it is the state of Quebec that has been sued by the mining company Lone Pine because it wanted to ban fracking, i.e. to blow up gas from the bedrock. I find it strange that a Social Democratic-led government wants to open up to companies to sue states in this way. Only the companies can sue the states. The companies have everything to win. Often it is true when states want to legislate or take other measures to protect the environment and public health. These litigations cost an extreme amount of money, and no finance minister with a little self-respect can easily take the risk of being sued in the future. This procedure may be likened to playing football. However, you only play against one goal, and it is always the companies that get to shoot at the goal. The only thing we who are to represent the state can do in that football game is protect us from their penalty kicks and free kicks and hope that there will be no goals. The companies have everything to gain from this approach. Ann Linde and I are probably right to agree that we want a little harder demands on the mining industry in Sweden. Maybe it would be good if we could raise the mineral fee. Perhaps it would be good if we could tighten up environmental legislation. I would like to ask Ann Linde whether she seriously believes that the companies that are currently suing democratic states will not also sue Sweden if we take action in the field of mining. And what is really wrong with the Swedish, European and Canadian courts? It all works out pretty well today – we are the rule of law after all.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-219	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to remember that CETA is a very good agreement. The government welcomes the signing of the agreement by the EU and Canada. CETA has great potential for Swedish companies to increase exports to Canada and thereby create jobs in Sweden. This will deepen our economic and political relationship with a country that shares our values. Canada is the world's tenth largest economy, and the government will work actively to ensure that Swedish companies see opportunities in this large market. Duty-free means increased exports of goods and, by extension, more jobs. CETA also helps our service exports and opens new sectors in Canada that have previously been closed. The Left Party has also expressed its support for the exemption of customs duties and the removal of barriers to trade. I suppose you also want to see more investment in Sweden. If we want to increase investment in Sweden, we need improved market access for investors, long-term security, protection against discrimination and the right to compensation for expropriation. There are rules for these things in the Swedish Constitution that are no different than in CETA. Transparency and predictability are therefore key points for companies to be attracted to Sweden. CETA contributes to this. The investment protection and resolution mechanism in CETA do not contain any restrictions on states' right to regulate. In addition, CETA clarifies that states can change their laws regardless of whether it has a negative impact on an investment or on profit expectations. There is no right to sue states for political decisions. The claim is not serious. The system also includes safety valves, such as the fact that letterbox companies or shell companies cannot use the dispute resolution mechanism. I'd also like to make a correction: I didn't say that horrible liars, and I said that it was horrible lies. I'm 100% responsible for that. I have heard so many horrible lies in this debate. In my hand I hold a lot of papers with compilations from my colleagues where all the horrible lies have been written down. I would like to give an example: we were in northern Sweden – I will not say in which city – where flyers were distributed on which it was stated that CETA is forcing Sweden to abolish the county councils. What is it if not a horrible lie? I have lots of examples. I stand by what I said. There are lots of horrible lies, but it would of course never occur to me to call neither MP Holm or Member of Parliament Svenneling a horrifiable liar. But what I said is a fact, and I stand by it. I would like to return the question to Svenneling, who, in his interpellation, rejects Swedish laws and our legislative process by saying that Sweden will most likely be convicted under CETA. It would be interesting if Svenneling could explain how he came to this conclusion regarding Swedish legislation. I would also like to comment on some of what Jens Holm mentioned about the NAFTA agreement. The protection that companies have against different treatment, expropriation and so on is constitutionally protected in Sweden. This is considered a human right, which it is not in most other countries. Therefore, such protection is needed, so that it will be as possible for companies to invest as it is in Sweden. I was also asked whether I believe we can protect ourselves from more toxins in the environment. Of course I think so. It is one of the most explicit in the instrument of interpretation that – as I point out in particular – is legally binding.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-229	Madam President, I would like As Jens Holm was interested in the launch of the CETA agreement in the mining, oil and gas industries in particular. These industries currently account for one third of all the moods of states. It is particularly worrying that Canadian companies have a reputation for being the worst criminals against the environment and human rights around the world. Canadian companies are currently involved in projects in Spain, Ireland, Finland, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece where they have been accused of not taking environmental considerations into account. Mining projects have often taken place in sensitive natural areas and have destroyed the conditions for local tourism companies. The local population has also not been taken into account, and the discharges of mines have affected local agriculture. The Canadian company Glamis Gold sued California in the United States when the state imposed a requirement for the company to restore an area at its mine taking into account the indigenous population. Fortunately, the company is lost in this particular case, but it shows the absurdity of the fact that the profit interests of the companies can be set against decisions made democratically. For Sweden, the CETA agreement would pose a risk that Canadian mining industry can sue the state every time a Swedish authority imposes environmental restrictions or wants to take account of the local population and its industries. That would not automatically mean being sued. I never said that, nor will I ever say that. But that would involve expensive process costs. It could also most likely be a conviction against Swedish law. The risk of obtaining such judgments may lead authorities to lower their requirements already in advance in order to avoid proceedings or to settle amicably, thereby lowering standards. This is happening today at one in three lawsuits where companies stand against states. We've seen it work that way abroad. The advocates of the CETA agreement, including Minister Ann Linde, believe that the agreement should be a model for future negotiations between the EU and the US on the so-called TTIP agreement. But the fact is that both agreements pose a great risk of a shift in power from our democracies to the lawyers of big business. It can also mean precisely reduced environmental requirements for mining establishments and infringements of Sami rights. Should the CETA agreement be adopted, it may also mean that many large American companies take a detour via Canada to sue Sweden. Many companies have subsidiaries or similar structures there. From the trade union side, there has been criticism of the agreement regarding the risk of trade union rights being curtailed. Nevertheless, Minister of Commerce Ann Linde has deafened her ear. The trade unions CLC and ETUC, in which LO, TCO and Saco are members, have jointly called for negotiations to reopen and for criticism from trade unions to be heard. Together with Epso, its European counterpart, the trade union Kommunal has analysed the CETA agreement and found major shortcomings. One of the more troublesome parts of the agreement is the chapter on workers' rights and protection against ill health. In practice, the CETA agreement sets a ceiling on how much a state or authority can decide, unless otherwise agreed. More far-reaching rules can be seen as a barrier to trade. If a dispute arises because investors consider new or old rules to be a barrier to trade, they can sue Sweden for breach of the trade agreement. This does not mean that Sweden is judged, but they can sue the country. This could, for example, mean that labour law judgments in the Labour Court could be reviewed in a joint high-level committee between the EU and Canada. This means that it is unclear whether the Labour Court will be the last instance of disputes between the social partners. There will be regulatory cooperation on new rules and laws planned and these will be implemented taking into account relevant existing scientific and technical information related to international standards. At the same time, an analysis will be made of whether new laws and regulations have an impact on trade or investment. This, of course, undermines the precautionary principle and is a clear step backwards in terms of occupational safety and health. So we know that it works in the United States today with what is called Oira, which means that new legislation against asbestos has been stopped.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-240	Madam President, I would like I asked the Minister for Trade a question earlier about what is wrong with the current judicial system. What is wrong with Swedish courts, German courts or Canadian courts? Why must we create a special procedure for companies and especially for big companies? It is precisely the big companies that are highly represented when it comes to lawsuits against states. For example, we see this in the case of Canada and the NAFTA agreement with 35 lawsuits. Already Canada has paid about SEK 2 billion to large companies, expenses for expensive lawyers, tribunal fees and other things. It is the mining and oil companies that are suing Canada when it has taken fully reasonable decisions to protect public health, the environment and animals and nature. Why should we even open up to that risk, Ann Linde? I know that there is protection against expropriation in Swedish legislation, for example. Well, that's great. Then can Canadian and in the future also American companies go to Swedish courts and refer to Swedish law? It's already in place. I do not understand what the problem is with Canadian law in order for us to need these special courts. It is obvious that there will be game against a goal. The companies have everything to win. It'll be a deterrent. I am not saying that some laws will be torn up, but the very risk of being forced to pay tens of or perhaps hundreds of millions of dollars in damages to large companies can cause us to hold back progressive legislation. I don't want to see that.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-244	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the Left Party never refers to LO, TCO or Saco but always to a lot of other trade unions. I myself was invited yesterday as one of the keynote speakers at the ETUC Board meeting. I do not know how many times Håkan Svenneling has been invited to speak before the European trade union movement. In any case, it was a very fruitful discussion. All the Swedish central organisations are also behind CETA. Let me answer some of the specific questions that have been asked. As regards mining and energy issues, CETA does not contain any specific chapter on energy. Fossil energy such as coal, gas and oil imported into the EU today is already duty free. The CETA agreement does not further liberalise trade in fossil energy. The next question was about the Swedish labour market model and whether to review labour law judgments. We have agreed in the CETA agreement that it should not lead to lower labour standards, that it should work for higher standards and that it should work to implement the ILO regulations and maintain a high level of protection. All existing legislation on labour and social reasons remains in force. In order to provide protection against workers in the agreement, it is linked to a panel of experts who can investigate whether any party violates the rules on the minimum level – not the ceiling level, as the Left Party constantly says. It can then give advice and recommendations on this. There are no wordings in the CETA agreement that allow labour law judgments to be reviewed. The Parties continue to reserve the right to regulate this area. Swedish labour law judgments cannot be reviewed by the panel of experts that will be set up for work-related issues. I'm saying what's being said here isn't right. Then there is the question of whether we can reduce our respective standards or requirements relating to food, product safety, consumer protection, health, the environment or occupational safety. The CETA agreement explicitly states that they will not be reduced. We also reaffirm the commitments regarding the precautionary measures taken under the various international agreements. I also got a question from Jens Holm about why one cannot have this in courts. I don't know if you think lawyers are free in public courts, that it doesn't cost as much money to have lawyers in ordinary courts. It's not like that. Why, then, should an investment protection agreement also be established in a developed rule of law? It is very important to have transparent, clear and stable conditions for investors to dare to invest in each country. It is true that Canada is a country with a developed legal system, and it is unlikely that Swedish investors will make significant use of the possibilities for dispute resolution. However, it cannot be excluded that investors may encounter problems even in countries with developed legal systems, such as discriminatory treatment of foreign companies. In such situations, the investment protection agreement offers increased protection. In addition, the investment protection in CETA ensures a level playing field for EU companies as for investors from countries with which Canada has investment protection agreements. In addition, all EU investors are given the same conditions of competition in Canada, as CETA will in future replace the bilateral agreements.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-252	Mr President, I would like to Welcome here! The debate on the CETA agreement is not over, because the agreement is not yet in place. I think the small uprising that Wallonia started and that delayed the deal by four days is just the beginning. So far, the agreement has only passed through the Council. Next is the European Parliament. After that, the agreement will be provisionally applied. But then the agreement will go through 38 national parliaments and state parliaments in Europe. In Canada, the Agreement shall be approved by its provinces. But you can also see that the resistance is increasing. It looks like the Netherlands will be able to bring about a referendum on this issue. In Berlin, some 200,000 people demonstrated. In other countries, too, we see an increase in resistance. As the agreement is still provisional, Minister of Trade Ann Linde still has a chance to back down from the ICS dispute settlement mechanism. Both the EU and Canada are the rule of law, as we have stated. The question is why this parallel legal system should be created, where large companies can sue states. Even the European Commission's own impact assessment found that there are doubts that ISDS or ICS create added value for the EU and Canada. It is only the neoliberal argument for wanting this that remains for Ann Linde. This does not have the desired effect. Instead, we could use the legal systems we have today. Costs are reduced in our own legal systems compared to these special courts. Sweden has not yet been in agreement, with the very small and few agreements we have today. However, the CETA agreement risks becoming the agreement that will bring Sweden into line. When deciding on the CETA agreement, we must also be able to take the unreasonable into account. We do not know today how investors and multinationals will act in the future. But we know that they have acted differently the longer the time has passed. My final question to Ann Linde is whether she will send out the CETA agreement for a referral before putting a bill on Parliament's table.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-258	Mr President, I would like to Svenneling hopes that the resistance will increase. I would like to say that the resistance is decreasing. When we have made this instrument of interpretation, a number of issues have indeed been clearly clarified and dispelled much of the concerns and misunderstandings of those who did not know and did not even read the agreement. You can also see how decisions have been made in country after country. This applies, for example, to the Social Democratic Party in Germany. There was a very great resistance. But when the question was settled methodically, approval was chosen. On the contrary, I believe that opposition is decreasing. Let me explain how trade agreements are negotiated within the EU! It is a rigorous process that lies behind a trade agreement. Nothing is left to chance. Already in 2009, the EU received a negotiating mandate from all countries within the Union. We instructed the Commission to negotiate an agreement with Canada within the framework of the mandate. After this, the negotiations went on for more than five years. Throughout the negotiations, specialists have thoroughly analysed each specific issue. This has been done by experts within the EU, but also within each Member State, such as Sweden, and in Canada. Throughout the negotiations, the work of elected politicians in all EU Member States' parliaments and the European Parliament in Brussels has been continuously anchored. This also applies to the Swedish parliament, although it is of course true that the Left Party has a different opinion from the rest of the parties. At the end of the negotiations in 2014, the agreement was published in full on the internet. A lie that I've faced so many times is that you can't read the agreement. You can read the deal, can't you? Oh, my God, my speaking time is over again!
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-261	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Swedish Members of Parliament do not refer to another country for access to documents on the TTIP trade and investment agreement. He has also asked what I am doing to ensure that the public is fully aware of documents relating to TTIP. I would like to begin by stating that a free trade agreement between the EU and the US is important for the EU, Sweden and the US because such an agreement could create more jobs and more growth. The agreement will have positive effects not only on our economy but also on our broader relations and the transatlantic link. Sweden shall be a pioneer country for free and fair trade. The government's position is that openness in trade negotiations is a prerequisite for a broad anchoring of a final agreement and a good outcome of negotiations. The government has been and remains a driving force on these issues. I therefore welcome the transparency initiative carried out by Trade Commissioner Malmström two years ago in the TTIP negotiations. As an effect of the initiative, Parliament, civil society and the public in Sweden have access to the EU's negotiating proposals when they are submitted to the opposite party and published by the Commission. To date, in addition to fact sheets and other information material, more than 60 EU negotiating proposals have been published on the European Commission's website. In order to further increase transparency and at the request of EU Member States, special reading rooms have been provided in EU Member States for government officials and MPs. However, the negotiating parties do not always have the opportunity or willingness to openly disclose all the details of a negotiation at all times. The United States has wanted certain pre-defined guarantees of confidentiality for the handling of US negotiating documents. The government has wanted to set up a national reading room for TTIP documents but has not been able to accept these demands from the US because some of them may be contrary to the Swedish constitution and our principle of public access. Swedish authorities must always independently examine the content of a document for data. As a result of the fact that Sweden has not been able to accept the requirements for confidentiality guarantees, only EU-internal documents are kept in the reading room established at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' premises. The fact that we in Sweden only have internal EU documents in the reading room thus has nothing to do with various allegations about, and secrecy, about the negotiations. The reading room does not store any documents that contain or account for American negotiating positions. Documents with US negotiating positions can, among other things, be consulted by Swedish MPs in the European Commission's study room in Brussels. The Parliament is also regularly informed within the framework of the Government's EU consultation prior to the Ministerial Council meetings where TTIP is on the agenda. The Industry Committee has also been informed of the state of negotiations, and the government has submitted the EU's negotiating texts to the committee several times. The government will continue to maintain an active dialogue with representatives of trade unions and employers as well as with trade associations and other civil society actors. For the government, transparency in the negotiations is important but must be in accordance with the Swedish constitution. The aim is to reach an ambitious agreement respecting democratic decisions, while ensuring the maintenance and strengthening of the protection of workers, the environment and human and animal health.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-268	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation. I would also like to thank you for the description of how trade negotiations are conducted at European level. I can tell the Minister that I myself used to be a member of the European Parliament's Trade Committee. Some experience of such negotiations may also have me. So I was very pleasantly surprised. I have heard both Commissioner Malmström and Minister Linde talk about the TTIP negotiations, the negotiations on the trade and investment agreement with the United States, being the most open ever and the most democratic. My experience with such trade agreements is that negotiations are very often conducted behind closed doors. Even we elected representatives don't get insight into what's going on. I was therefore very pleased when I learned that a so-called reading room had been set up where we members of Parliament could take us to read the documents on the TTIP agreement with the United States. When I came to that reading room, I found a decision from the EU Council specifically talking about 13 documents to be made available in the Member States' reading rooms. Of course, I wanted to read those documents as well. These were important documents, at least from the headlines. This would be about the so-called dispute settlement mechanism. I guess that's where it says that corporations should be able to sue states. These are competition procedures, public procurement, state-owned companies, small and medium-sized companies and other important things. What was really interesting about the 13 documents was that they were consolidated. They were basically negotiated between the EU and the US. I find that very interesting. It is only then that you can get a picture of what the other party thinks. It will not just be the European Commission's propaganda versions, if I say so, where the European Commission says: This is how we think it should be. Here we will see what the EU has managed to negotiate with the United States. I asked to see also these 13 documents, but I got no. I couldn't see those documents. I suppose it's because, as Ann Linde said, the United States is demanding that if the documents were to leak out, we should find out who leaked them. Swedish law does not allow you to research the source. I would like to know from the Minister: Have you even tried to make them available? Have you fought against Washington and said that it is very important that all the documents in the negotiations can be made available to our legislators in our country? I would also like to ask the Minister a question. The Minister refers all Swedish MPs to going down to Brussels. There we will read the documents relating to this incredibly comprehensive trade and investment agreement. Does the Minister really think it reasonable that we Members of Parliament should be referring to a secret reading room in Brussels to read the important documents concerning the EU-US agreements?
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-275	Mr President, I would like to This morning I had the privilege of visiting the reading room that only Members of Parliament have the opportunity to enter to read documents on the TTIP agreement. One might think that a visit to the reading room is like a visit to a library. Unfortunately, however, the similarities are not very great. At first, there is no direct information for Members of Parliament on the Parliament's internal website. When you get the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, it's a special email address that you should e-mail. It is not simply to get answers, but in the end you still have a time. When you get there you get met by very nice staff and get a very good reception. You get into a room, in my case it was an office, where there's a pile of secret reports to read. They are not in a binder, and there is no register or clear order. You have to spend a certain amount of time just understanding what actions you have ahead of you. You also get a letter that tells you what applies. It says that you must not transcribe any documents and that you are prohibited from doing so, which means that, for example, I am not allowed to tell you what I have read here in this debate. You can also find in the pile list of consolidated documents, which Jens Holm's interpellation is about. But those acts are not in the pile of deeds. The letter does not say that there would be no documents, that they would be in Brussels and that it would be necessary to go there to read them. The differences between the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' reading room and reading room in a library, I would say, are monumental. The advocates of the TTIP negotiations often beat their chests and say that it is the most transparent negotiations ever, and reading rooms are part of this transparency. But I'm thinking about what's become so very transparent. I'm allowed to go into a reading room, but I can't tell you what I've been reading. It is a room that does not keep available all the documents made available by the European Commission in the reading rooms of all other Member States. Only Sweden and possibly Bulgaria do not have them. Instead, reference is made to travelling to Brussels to read them. I don't think that's transparency. Many of the advocates – including Secretary of State Stenström to Ann Linde and EU Commissioner Malmström – have now begun to talk about freezing TTIP until a new US President is in place. Proponents are afraid of the racist and isolationist Donald Trump and would rather see Hillary Clinton as president. However, Mr Clinton has also tightened his tone in the debate on trade policy. It is much thanks to the left-wing candidate Bernie Sanders who has pushed her hard in the primary elections. This has led Hillary Clinton to say that she has doubts about the TPP, the trade agreement that the US is about to sign between the US, Japan and other oceanic countries. The Democratic Convention adopted an interesting text. It says this, if translated into Swedish: Trade agreements often increase the profits of large companies while at the same time failing to protect workers' rights, working conditions, the environment and health. We must try to close the competition to the bottom and develop a trade policy that supports jobs in the United States. That's what they said at the Democratic Convention. Opening the negotiations could also bring input and pressure from other parties to the EU and the US. This could mean that the EU also gets the help of trade unions and civil society to push the US on issues that are important for Europe so that the agreement is as ambitious and good as Minister of Trade Ann Linde wants. I believe that it would be beneficial for the negotiations to become transparent in real terms, so that the democratic influence and the possibility of creating a trade agreement that will benefit not only large companies.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-284	Mr President, I would like to I repeat what is most important in this, namely that we want to increase trade so that we can get more jobs. That is the most important task of the government. That is why we believe that free trade agreements between the EU and Canada and between the EU and the US are important for Sweden; through them we can create more jobs and more growth. The agreement will not only have a positive impact on the economy but also on the broader relations between the US and Sweden, the so-called transatlantic link. The aim remains to reach an ambitious agreement respecting democratic decisions and to maintain and strengthen the protection of workers, the environment and human and animal health. Sweden shall be a pioneer country for free and fair trade. Transparency and anchoring with stakeholders and stakeholder organisations is, of course, an important part of the work. We are pursuing a line of openness in the EU, for example when negotiating free trade agreements with third countries. The government also has an ongoing active dialogue with authorities, representatives, trade unions, employers, trade associations, companies and other civil society actors. At the same time, the conditions for transparency must be in accordance with the Swedish constitution, including the Swedish principle of public access. We have, as Håkan Svenneling says, a reading room. I'm glad the staff in the reading room were nice. One can certainly improve this, and I hope that Håkan Svenneling will send in suggestions on how to do it better. There is nothing to say that you cannot do this better. All the other 27 Member States and the European Parliament also have reading room, and this is not in conflict with the constitutions. I think that is proof that this is not a secrecy. Our public access legislation is written in such a way that we cannot disclose information in advance. So there is a really difficult clash between our Swedish system and that of the other EU countries and the US. Both Svenneling and Holm say that there is a prohibition and that you can not tell what you have read or seen. I don't really think it's that strange. It is about a negotiation – a really important negotiation. It seems to me that, once one party has agreed to show its negotiating positions to others than those negotiating, this is a major step in the right direction, and this is the first time it has done so. I can't really find a good answer to how we can avoid this crash. Of course, our constitution is above that. If you can find other ways, it may be possible, but we cannot go against our own constitution. Of course, it is not perfect to refer to other parliaments and to the European Parliament in order for someone to read; I agree with that. But this is simply a difficult crash. I think it's really fun that Svenneling is discussing the lyrics of the Democrats. I was at my fifth convention when I was in Philadelphia, too, reading and discussing commerce so that it was wonderful. The fact is that the wordings contained in the Democrats' political programme are what we have achieved in CETA, and that is what many of the democrats now think is very positive and good.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-291	Mr President, I would like to I have tried to find out and get to the bottom of how it is that a Social Democratic-led government is prepared to put so much at risk to get these two trade and investment agreements with the United States and Canada. As I understand the answer from Minister of Trade Ann Linde, it is about increasing trade, because if we increase trade, the number of jobs will also increase. Parentetically, one can only conclude that this was not the case in the USA and Canada, for example, with the NAFTA agreement. It was the same argument there, but jobs declined. How, then, will trade be increased? By removing so-called barriers to trade. But now it happens, Ann Linde, that tariffs and tariffs in the transatlantic area between Europe, the United States and Canada are already record lows. We already have an extremely large flow of goods and services, so it cannot be the tariffs and tariffs that should be lowered. If you find any of those, we in the Left Party will agree to remove them too; I promise. But it is about the so-called non-tariff barriers to trade. For example, a non-tariff barrier to trade may be the existence of different levels of environmental legislation. In one country a chemical is banned, but it may not be in North America. It is clear that this could be a problem for trade because it looks different. But it should also be remembered that, if we take up the non-tariff barriers to trade, our legislation and our standards, there is a great risk that we will have to reduce the levels. Now Ann Linde will say: No, we will not be forced to lower a single level! We do not really know, but what we know is that we can be sued because the companies in the United States and Canada have completely different expectations. So we can retain our legislation, but it can cost hundreds and perhaps billions of dollars. I do not believe that there is a finance minister in the world who takes such a thing lightly. I think the transparency of the debate is incredibly important. I heard Ann Linde talking about the CETA agreement earlier. You said in a passus about some CETA critic: You haven't even read the agreement. You've also talked about lies, delusions and so on. It's easy for you to say-- you're in jail with all the information. You have the entire TTIP agreement in front of you, and you can read every article. Håkan, me and others have to go into TTIP-leaks and might find it anyway online. But there will be a debate on totally unequal terms. We know that when the information comes out, people really want to know what these agreements are about. I remember the so-called multilateral investment agreement, the MAI agreement, at the beginning of the 21st century. It was the same secrecy there; you didn't know anything. Then it leaked, and it didn't take long before the whole agreement fell because people saw what extremely far-reaching consequences it would have. It was the same with the so-called ACTA agreement a number of years ago. I would like to ask a few questions again because Ann Linde spoke about a transparency line: have you even engaged in a dialogue with the United States that we want to publish all these documents so that we can see their positions? Have you fought? Why do you only accept their arrangement? Do you think it is reasonable for a Swedish Member of Parliament to have to travel to another country to read these important documents? You didn't answer that.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-298	Mr President, I would like to Why, then, is transparency so important? Because there is a massive lobbying both in the United States and in Brussels. The meetings of the European Commission's DG Trade for the start of the TTIP negotiations were held to 92% with representatives from business interests. Organisations that have examined the lobbying in Brussels have found direct text requests from Members of the European Parliament's Trade Committee INTA that companies have developed for them. By increasing transparency, the influence of lobby organisations can be made visible. Previously, both mandates and results were classified. However, it is the pressure of internal leaks, investigative investigations and the widespread criticism of civil society that has led the European Commission to take some steps in the right direction. Negotiating mandates and proposals for the TTIP negotiations have been published, but the negotiation process is still not sufficiently transparent. The same applies to other trade agreements, in particular the TISA service trade agreement, which WikiLeaks leaked this summer. Both the right and the business community tend to defend themselves by the need for the secret negotiation process, because that is how international trade agreements are done. Their main argument is that openness, transparency and dialogue hamper the negotiation process. The Left Party does not agree with that. We believe that the lack of transparency, transparency and dialogue in the negotiations on international trade agreements is a serious problem. Such negotiations can affect Swedish citizens. Then the negotiations must be transparent, so that citizens, popular movements, researchers and elected politicians can be involved and given the opportunity to respond, express criticism and make proposals. Some are surprised that so many ordinary people suddenly care about trade policy. But it's simply because you see that it's important in your everyday life – whether it's what you're going to have on your plate, what chemicals you're going to be exposed to or what conditions you're going to have at work. That is why trade policy is important.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-303	Mr President, I would like to I have to admit that Jens Holm is a good debater. Now he slipped so that it sounded like I had said that you can read the TTIP agreement on the internet. I didn't say that. I said you can read the CETA agreement on the Internet. And you've been able to do that for two years. That's kind of the thing. I didn't say a word about the TTIP agreement being on the Internet. With regard to Nafta, Jens Holm also said that it has not led to any new jobs being created. That is not what official government estimates in the United States show. Other estimates can certainly be made, but according to the official estimates made by the authorities there, the NAFTA agreement has led to the creation of five million new jobs and the loss of half a million jobs. I think that is the way that the five million – those who have been given new jobs – do not know that it is because the companies have been given increased export opportunities and have thus been able to employ more. But I am sure that half a million people who have lost their jobs, because companies have not been able to cope with structural change or the like, all know that it is because of Nafta. And that, of course, is a major problem. It is in the nature of the negotiations that you do not always have the opportunity or willingness to explain all the details of a negotiation openly. However, that does not mean that it would be a matter of secrecy. Svenneling also spoke of a secret reading room. Our reading room is not a secret. It's open. You can call it a secret reading room. But it's not secret. This is not a matter of public secrecy, it is a matter of negotiation tactics and the difficult clash between Sweden's legislation on public access and other countries' legislation on public access. The fact that the United States has a prior guarantee of confidentiality in the handling of the US negotiating document is not difficult to understand, even if it means that we cannot then meet the requirements for demonstrating their negotiating positions. In order to have a broad basis in the final agreement and to have good negotiating results, it is essential to have a transparent approach to how to work with the trade negotiations. This is also why Cecilia Malmström believes in the transparency initiative, which the Swedish Government supports. We will thus continue to have an active dialogue with representatives of trade unions, employers, professional organisations and other civil society actors. I hope that this dialogue will be as constructive as possible and that it will be based on facts. Another thing was mentioned, which is also a lie. It is about having to eat hormone-treated meat, because we would have to import it. Someone just mentioned hormone-treated meat. We won't have to. Hormonal meat is prohibited in the EU and it will continue to be prohibited with CETA. We won't have to eat it. That argument can therefore be stopped. When it comes to so-called large companies being given the opportunity to sue states outside the ordinary legal system, it is in fact a question of investment and non-discrimination protection that already exists in 66 of Sweden's current trade agreements. They are regulated by international conventions, and the proceedings are conducted under the direction of arbitrators from, for example, the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-313	Mr President, I would like to The National Board of Trade is the Swedish authority that will promote trade. Therefore, it is perhaps not surprising that when asked, they give answers that are in favour of trade. It was also the Kommerskollegium that in one month did the environmental evaluation that came this summer. They asked, as far as I know, two bodies – the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate – what they thought about the CETA agreement and the possibility of pursuing a progressive environmental policy. In principle, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency answered with five A4 pages with new questions. They had a lot of questions they wanted answers to. Only a few of them were answered in the evaluation. And the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate warned that the CETA agreement will complicate and delay important chemicals legislation. As far as the NAFTA agreement is concerned and more or less jobs can certainly be discussed. I was looking at the Democrats' election platform. It noted that international trade agreements have so far led to the disappearance of millions of jobs and have made it more difficult to defend workers' rights and environmental legislation. At least that seems to be the judgment of the Democrats. Håkan Svenneling never said that we would be forced to eat hormone-treated meat. He said this is going to matter for what you're going to put on the plate. That's a completely different thing. I would like to thank you for this debate. I'm sure there'll be more in the future.
i-3cd7bf6661b52d28-318	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the National Board of Trade carried out an analysis. Four instances were asked. The Environmental Protection Agency had a number of questions, and they have received answers to several of them. In addition, answers to several of those questions can be found in the existing instrument of interpretation. Furthermore, the Chemicals Inspectorate did not warn against the cooperation that we could have. They said that the work may take longer, because there are many more who have to cooperate. I don't think that's a warning. It's something really positive. There are now many more of us who will agree on how to manage it. Well, then it'll take longer. I don't see that as a warning. That's a good thing. I want to put TTIP into a wider context. It is also a little about what the Democrats are warning about when it comes to workers' rights and whether jobs can be lost through trade agreements. I mean, it could be like that. There will be stronger competition when you have trade agreements. And then companies must be able to cope with structural change so that they are at the forefront of that competition. This means, of course, that some companies are forced to close down. Then the question is whether there is a policy in the country that ensures that it is not workers who work at that particular factory who take the fall because there are no national welfare, unemployment and education efforts. I mean, it has to go hand in hand. It doesn't in America. And that is, among other things, what the Democrats want to see to it. One might ask what Swedish society would look like if we had not been able to cope with the structural change, if we had left Lindholmens shipyard in Gothenburg instead of a large campus and the science park that is there now. National and international must go hand in hand. That is what the Democrats have wanted in their election platform.
