i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1	Mr President, I would like to Unsmart, unsound and out-of-date is what I call M oderatians, C enterns, L iberalernas, K ristdemocrats and Swedendemocrats' proposal for a decision, because they do not agree with demands for fair terms and Swedish salaries for those who work in Sweden. We stand up for Swedish agreements that mean wages that can be lived on. Taxpayers' money should not be used for dumping wages. I will come back to this in my speech later on. Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to decide how to spend 600 billion of taxpayers' money in public procurement. We do so on the basis of the report of the Committee on Finance 7. The bill is based on three EU public procurement directives from 2014. The new directives contain provisions that develop obligations and opportunities, and they are intended to promote societal objectives through procurement. More scope is given to environmental, social and labour law considerations. As regards environmental considerations, animal welfare and social entrepreneurship, the committee has supported the government's proposal. Unfortunately, however, we do not agree that the procurement should require Swedish salaries and holidays to apply. Here, then, the right-wing parties want to prevent such demands from being made. They even want to prevent the possibility of making claims for insurance from being included. Their actions affect cleaners, truck drivers, taxi drivers, construction workers and many welfare workers around Sweden. But it also affects serious companies who want the same chance to bid as everyone else. It affects companies that want the right rules on the labour market and want the same rules to apply. The position in the majority text, as I said at the outset, is unsound, unsmart and out-of-date. Why is it unsound? Well, it is because serious companies are forced to compete with rogue and unscrupulous employers who do not hesitate to dump wages in order to win contracts. Companies that take long-term responsibility for their employees through good employment conditions and contribute to the social security system in the labour market are being competed out by rogue entrepreneurs. Why is that unsmart? Yes, it is because taxpayers' money is being used to dump wages. And why is it out of fashion? Well, some even call this the Wild West in some parts of the country. There is such a mess in the labour market that, as I said, it is a wild west, and it has become worse and worse in the last ten years. This has to stop. Today we can have a better system of things if M, C, L, KD and SD come to their senses. Since the proposal is based on an EU directive that specifically emphasises social protection, it is very unsmart not to support it. The directive states that collective agreements and labour law have a crucial role to play in maintaining this protection. Of course, public procurement must respect the employees' fundamental rights and conditions laid down by law or collective agreements. It contributes to our important objectives of social protection that this can be achieved and also maintained. However, taking labour law into account in the procurement process is not only about the social protection of workers, but also about responsible suppliers who should not be exposed to unfair competition by suppliers who gain economic benefits by competing with poor working conditions and employment conditions. It is claimed that this would put small businesses at a disadvantage and that it would be more difficult to bid than it is today, but it is exactly the opposite. Small businesses benefit from the fact that there is order and order, that there is a level playing field in the labour market and that there is an opportunity for synergy. It is both possible and cost-effective for a small company to sign a contract. Collective agreement-like conditions mean in practice that working time and holidays must comply with other labour market conditions. However, collective agreements provide companies with a greater opportunity to adapt the conditions to the conditions prevailing in the industry. Mr President, I would like to I have read SD's reservation, which is in fact similar to Almega's claims that collective agreements would pose problems for purchasing authorities, because it is so difficult to choose the right agreement. This claim is not true. Companies sign the agreement that applies in each sector and at the same time provide basic protection for the employee and order and order for the company. Mr President, I would like to It is so bad that we can get a fine from the European Union if we do not impose demands on working time, pay and holidays, that is, the hard core. That's why I have a question for the Moderate Maria Plass. Is it worth fineling to the EU for your Moderates just to avoid ensuring that serious companies can compete on equal terms? SD chose Swedish collective agreements to apply in Sweden and promised its voters to support Swedish workers. That is why I have a question for SD's Oscar Sjöstedt. Is it more important for you that it should continue to be possible to dump salaries than to set up for Swedish salaries to apply in Sweden? I also have a question for the representative of the Centre Party. You have been very careful about animal welfare. The protection of pigs and cows should be as good as possible. It is very good to have high quality standards, and it is also included in the bill that the government has put forward and that we support. But is it more important for the Centre for Animal Welfare than for occupational safety? Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago we visited Taxi Stockholm. They made it clear to us that they no longer win contracts, because they have collective agreements, wages that can be lived on and holidays for their drivers. They take social responsibility. It's about travel duty, sick trips with multiple trips. It has turned out that the taxi industry is getting worse and worse, as drivers' conditions are getting worse with halved wages and lower quality for those who are going to travel. During this visit, the Liberal, who was involved in low wages, claimed that it was nothing more than intimidation. It was probably something that has been heard from some lobby organisation that unfortunately no longer stands up for serious companies in Sweden. My question to the Liberals' representatives here today is: Is it intimidation propaganda that there are low wages in Sweden? If it is not intimidation propaganda, can you imagine making demands according to the harsh core, i.e. pay, holidays and working hours? I want to know that in today's debate. Mr President, I would like to I would like to come back to the majority reading by the right-wing parties on insurance. They claim that the possibility of requiring insurance – i.e. the possibility – would disadvantage Swedish companies. That is why I would like to ask the right-wing parties: do you want to ban the possibility of requiring insurance in the workplace? I do not think you want to, and if so, your wording is completely incomprehensible. Despite the fact that you probably want there to be insurance in the workplace, which I very much hope, you write that it is disadvantageous for companies to have insurance requirements. The writing is contradictory, and I want you to explain yourself. Could it perhaps be so bad that you have not read the bill and gone to hearsay? Or have you listened to any lobby organisation that has claimed this? I believe that Sweden's workers and serious Swedish companies want your answer today. Should insurance be possible or not? We, that is, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left, believe – as the government proposes – that it should be possible to set conditions for pensions, insurance and leave other than holidays. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved. Once again, Mr President, we want security, a salary to live on and decent conditions. We stand up for serious companies and for Swedish wages to apply in Sweden.
i-9qM6mPUqHQpHgxmxZJoG6D	Mr President, I would like to At the end of June, the Government put a bill on Parliament's table on a new regulatory framework for procurement in the public sector. Part of the bill's legislative proposals is based on three EU public procurement directives from 2014. They largely replace the 2004 public procurement directives. The new Directives would have been in place by 18 April 2016, which means that the transposition of the Directives is already delayed. The new directives give greater scope to environmental, social and labour law considerations. The aim of the Directive has been to reduce the regulatory burden in public procurement, to discourage unhealthy business behaviour, to facilitate the procurement process and to offer more flexibility to contracting authorities. It has, however, built its interpretation with legislative proposals that go far beyond the requirements of the EU directive. This applies, in particular, to labour law conditions, including requirements for working conditions in line with collective agreements, and to increased regulation. This has met with fierce criticism from several consultation bodies, including the Law Council. Another criticism is that the regulatory framework is very unclear and complex, which will mean expensive and time-consuming procurement processes. We welcome the new EU directives, but the government has therefore presented a more far-reaching legislative proposal which goes against the aims of the directives. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance rejects the proposal in the parts relating to an obligation for contracting authorities and entities to impose special conditions of labour law and those related provisions. In addition, we are making a declaration that the government should return as soon as possible with a new proposal to supplement it so that the directives can be implemented. It is both important and necessary to provide the opportunity to impose environmental, social and regulatory requirements in public procurement. If necessary, imposing demands on the so-called hard core, i.e. pay, holidays and working hours, may be necessary in sectors with high price competition. Of course we want fair terms. The current procurement legislation offers good opportunities for the contracting authority/entity to impose social requirements. Contractors already have an obligation to examine tenders, to require explanations of the tender which is suspected of being low and to reject it. This requires the competence and knowledge of the purchasers of the services or goods, but the authorities also need to prioritise monitoring and monitoring of the requirements. If a supplier fails to act, the contract shall be terminated. The possibility for SMEs to participate in public procurement needs to be improved. This is also one of the intentions of the EU directives. Unfortunately, the government goes beyond the requirements of the EU directive and wants to introduce regulations that penalise small businesses in particular, such as family businesses. The proposal to impose conditions at a level equivalent to collective agreements in terms of pay, holidays and working time contains built-in problems that can lead to both application difficulties and undesirable consequences. For example, non-collective companies may be disadvantaged as they may have to offer their employees better conditions than those resulting from collective agreements, since the agreements provide for the possibility of removing certain benefits. This can hit small businesses hard, as six out of ten companies with fewer than 50 employees have no collective agreements. It must not be the case that companies which have collective agreements may pass through a sour cream file, while those who do not have collective agreements must devote their full and considerable time to demonstrating that they meet a wide range of requirements defined by collective agreements in addition to existing legislation. Other consequences and difficulties that may arise from the proposal are a conflict of interpretation of collective agreements. The acting authority shall interpret the agreements itself, and several courts may deal with any disputes. We believe that the consequences for the Swedish model, where the contracting parties primarily interpret the agreement, are not sufficiently investigated. Problems can also arise when comparing different collective agreements, since not all agreements are public. Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal puts Swedish companies at a disadvantage compared with foreign companies. The proposal gives contracting authorities the right to impose requirements on, for example, insurance, occupational pensions and leave other than holidays. The EU Directive states that posted workers only have to comply with the requirements of the Posting of Workers Act, i.e. pay, working time and holidays. Since equal demands cannot be made on everyone, foreign companies will thus be able to benefit over Swedish. In a globalised world with tough competition, it is incomprehensible that the conditions for Swedish and foreign companies operating in Sweden would be different. Mr President, I would like to The government's proposal risks creating more problems than it solves. This means a significant increase in the regulatory burden, increased regulatory uncertainty and reduced competition. It puts Swedish companies at a disadvantage compared with foreign companies. It can be a hard blow to Sweden's job engine, that is, small companies, local companies and family businesses. With this in mind, I am in favour of the proposal in the report, except in paragraph 9, where I am in favour of reservation 8, paragraph 10, in which I am in favour of reservation 9 and paragraph 14, in which I am in favour of reservation 13.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-33	Mr President, I would like to Yes, this did not make us any wiser; it was possibly even more confused as to where the Moderates really stand. Do you not want insurance in the Swedish labour market? Is that what Maria Plass says – that there should be no insurance in the Swedish labour market? I think it is a senseless statement by the representatives of the Moderates here today. Should we give up because there are a few companies that don't have insurance policies? Of course we should do exactly the opposite. We intend to move forward, step by step, until all are covered by insurance. It is dangerous to work for many companies today and not have insurance. How hard it can be for construction workers, for example, not to have insurance! And it does not only affect employees, even if the suffering of those affected by an accident at work is sufficient, but it also affects society. Without insurance, it becomes very expensive for society to stand up and take care of these work-damaged people later. Here is Maria Plass and says that the possibility to make claims for insurance can knock out Swedish companies. It is completely unreasonable that you no longer stand up for the Swedish model and for us to have insurance in our workplaces. In addition, 90% of all workers are currently covered by an agreement. Does Maria Plass mean that the other 10 projects would ensure that this 90% will no longer have anything? I would like an answer to that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-38	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry Monica Green got even more confused. I think we have been quite clear in our follow-up motion. I also think that we have expressed our views and thoughts. We say that, if necessary, one should be able to take to the hard core with pay, vacation and working time. But we are also saying that we must comply with EU law. It regulates pensions, insurance and leave. If a company that has its registered office in a country other than Sweden comes here to work, it follows the legislation that exists here. It is possible to pay pensions and insurance in the company's home country, but it will be disadvantaged in Sweden because other conditions apply here.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-40	Mr President, I would like to I very much hope that it will not be as Maria Plass says – that it should not even be possible to make claims for insurance. Shouldn't we even have the wording that it should be possible to make claims for insurance? It does not say that insurance should always be required, but that it should be possible. Even this is not what Maria Plass wants! It is terrible that the Moderates, and the party representative here today, are totally bowing to the lobby organisations. They're the ones who've affected you. We see it, and we have heard the claims that have been drummed out throughout the summer. I'm afraid you've fallen for them. You have also believed that things would be worse for smaller companies. We are making it possible for small businesses. We support small businesses so that they can join forces, so that they can get help, in order to be able to participate in the procurement process in the future. We support order and order. Small companies do not want to be part of the wage dumping race either; they want order. They don't want to be outgunned by those who run with unsympathetic conditions. I am deeply disappointed – but perhaps not so surprised – that the Moderates are leaving occupational safety and health; it belongs to your history. But you also have the nerve to let go of this with serious companies. You are allowing the rogue entrepreneurs to gain an increasing market share, and the serious companies are now to be knocked out because you are hanging on to this European directive. We see the possibilities of moving the positions forward. Instead, you are deteriorating, both for the serious companies and for Swedish workers.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-46	Mr President, I would like to Monica Gre e n is now engaged in some sort of red-green rhetoric. It contains a little scare propaganda, which one likes to engage in, especially in an election movement. She's using the word abominable. I find it horrifying that you are putting forward proposals that prevent small businesses from competing in procurement. Six out of ten small businesses do not have collective agreements. You think that they should spend more time on this and that they should spend a lot of time on administration instead of doing the job. If an unserious offer is received, as you yourself mentioned in your speech, the current legislation will allow you to review. If there's a suspicion, go look at it. You can cancel the agreement if necessary, if that's unserious. It is not the case that all companies with collective agreements are automatically serious or that anyone without collective agreements is automatically misleading. It is horrible to say just that. Instead, use the existing legislation and scrutiny options. We will ensure that there is competence and knowledge so that we can make use of what exists instead of making new proposals that disadvantage small businesses and disadvantage Swedish companies against foreign companies.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-49	Mr President, I would like to The process surrounding this report actually reminds us, in a particularly flagrant way, of one thing: Sweden is led by an extremely weak minority government. This in itself is not news, nor is it new for Sweden – minority governments have been the norm, not the exception. The difference with previous minority governments is that the current government does not seem to understand that it is a minority government. Somehow they try to pretend that this fact does not exist. The Head of Government himself has made it clear countless times that he does not want to be dependent on our support, our votes and our mandates. Now he won't have to, but instead of thanking me, he's going into complete polemics. A minority government must, of course, anchor its proposals with the opposition before presenting them. That I should have to stand here, in the Parliament's pulpit, and inform about such obvious things is really somewhat bizarre. Nor has it been possible to take on board the massive criticisms from the consultative bodies, not least from the Law Council. Mr President, I would like to We accept many parts of this proposal, which is basically based on three different EU directives. However, the elements that the government has chosen to add in addition to these directives are linked to a real problem. Although the Minister of Civil Affairs will not admit it, this bill has the cape against the country's small businessmen, in particular the unagreed small businesses. Since more than 60% of small businesses are precisely non-collective, and since more than 99% of all companies are small businesses, this legislative proposal has a major negative impact on the majority of companies in Sweden. This is not the first time – and, unfortunately, probably not the last – that the government is presenting proposals with severe negative consequences for Swedish entrepreneurship. In the past, an increase in the cost of sick pay has been proposed. At the moment, we are dealing with a proposal for an entrepreneurial tax with dire consequences for small businesses. The Swedish democrats will not contribute to such a policy. I would have had a different understanding of this proposal if it were the case that the non-aggregated small businesses had consistently been characterised by unholy wages and unholy working conditions. But that is not the case. Very often the opposite is true. I also think it is worth pointing out – and this is of course something that the government keeps very quiet about – that in the cases that a purchaser chooses to set conditions that extend beyond what is called the hard core, these conditions will only be applied to Swedish companies with Swedish employees, but foreign companies with posted workers will be exempted from the rules. As a result, they are given a lower cost picture and can fold on a lower tender and thereby win a tender. It thus creates an incentive for companies to stick with posted workers, while introducing a legal basis for discrimination against Swedish companies and employees. There is no way in life that I and my party support such a proposal! It won't happen. Mr President, I would like to I have some concerns about the impact of this legislative proposal on the Swedish model. The influence and interpretation of the parties will inexorably decrease. The influence and powers of the Labour Court will be reduced. The long-term consequences of this are difficult to say with certainty. But what we can say with certainty is that the parties are becoming weaker, whether the party is called Confederation of Swedish Enterprise or the Landsorganisation. I also see risks for taxpayers. For obvious reasons, excluding a majority of companies from participating in public procurement would have a negative impact on competition. Of course, this can only lead to more expensive procurements, which, in the long run, of course, affects the individual taxpayer. Mr President, I would like to There is a problem with rogue actors in public procurement, and of course we will get to grips with it. But instead of causing trouble for all honest companies, the Swedish Democrats have other solutions. We want to introduce a so-called main contractor responsibility. A large part of the problem, after all, is that companies employ sub-contractors who sometimes, not always, are characterised by unfair conditions or, in the worst case, regular black labour. By making the main contractor jointly and severally responsible for the whole chain, we very much solve this problem. We also want to be much tougher with the control of those who work with public contracts. Through collaboration between, for example, the municipality, where applicable, and the Swedish Cat Agency, you can reasonably easily go in and check that social security contributions have been paid in a proper manner. Nacka Municipality is an outstanding example of this. Their model should be applied throughout the country. Furthermore, we want to invest more in training the country's purchasers, raising skills, because procurement should not be about the lowest price. It should be about quality and about the hard core – pay, working time and vacation. Such things as locally grown food for school or for the retirement home to stimulate local rural areas and the local business community should be the subject of procurement. That is the line of the Swedish Democrats. Unfortunately, the government has turned a deaf ear to this. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to point out the obvious, although in some sense it is outside the scope of the case, that it is the EU-imposed Posting Act that has created problems of unfair competition from the outset. I mean the following: the pro-European parties in this House have little credibility in this matter. On the one hand, they advocate a model in which foreign workers can be seconded to Sweden without obstacles and control and without us knowing who or how many they are, but on the other hand they criticise the consequences of such a model. That's what's happening right now. That's why they have low credibility, and I think they should take it with them. Mr President, I would like to I support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, Nos 2, 3 and 4.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-63	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt started by saying: No, we cannot support the bill, because no one has talked to us. But you actually get to talk. You can present your proposals and discuss them in committee, but that is clearly not enough for Oscar Sjöstedt. He wants to be courted, as he apparently has been by Almega. Instead, he has found his arguments. It is very strange to continue to argue that there should not be the same demands on wages, holidays and working hours for domestic and posted workers when it says that we should make the same demands. It is trying to deceive the voters, and you want to do so because you have now abandoned your own electoral promise. You said that Swedish collective agreements should apply in Sweden. You repeated the whole election campaign. You have also repeated it after the elections and in the spring. In the spring of 2016 you stood in this Chamber and said: We will stand up for the Swedish workers. Swedish salaries shall be valid in Sweden. Swedish collective agreements are important to us, and our voters think so. What has happened during the summer? Yes, I see nothing but that there have been courtings from lobby organisations. You go from promises to your own voters. It is perfectly possible to impose the same requirements on domestic workers as on posted workers. I want to make that clear to everyone who is listening here today, because I do not think that Oscar Sjöstedt seems to be listening to what I am saying.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-67	Mr President, I would like to The bill came this summer. It is only when a bill comes that we can see what it is about and take a position on it, which is quite obvious. So have we. I can say that I have spent a little too much of my summer reading the bill. It goes without saying that one cannot take a position on a bill before it has landed on the table of the Riksdag. That would be completely bizarre. It says something like this in the bill: The specific employment law conditions that can be set may be such as pensions, insurance and leave other than holidays. These conditions must be met as an employer in order to be able to participate in a procurement procedure. It also says: An employer is also considered to fulfil the conditions if the Posting of Workers Act is applicable. That is what the bill says, perhaps not to a hundred percent verbatim but rather precisely worded. In other words, if the Posting of Workers Act is applicable, the specific labour law conditions are deemed to be fulfilled. This means that a foreign posted labour company fulfils these conditions only by applying the Postings Act. That's what the bill says. That is what they propose there. This means that a Swedish company with Swedish employees must meet the conditions strictly, but a foreign company with posted workers is still considered to fulfil the conditions. Never in life will I agree to such a thing! You will not have our support for this.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-70	Mr President, I would like to It is clear to the voters that you are betraying them and are not going to stand up for the 90% of workers in Sweden who have an agreement today. You don't want them to have protection anymore. You don't want to be there for them. You do not want Swedish collective agreements and salaries to apply in Sweden. I do not think that Oscar Sjöstedt has read the bill, even if he says he has. He gets to go back and get homework: Read on page 120, part 2! There it is clear what demands we can make. We intend to continue to gradually correct the distortions. There's a mess today. We thought that in SD you stood up for Swedish wages in Sweden, but you have changed your mind and I regret that. You don't even want prime entrepreneurship anymore. You don't want to fight for us to have entrepreneurs who make demands on fair terms throughout the line. You are not in favour of the employees at all. And you have not answered the question: Is it more important to impose fines on the EU than to ensure that we get the right conditions and Swedish agreements that apply in Sweden?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-73	Mr President, I would like to Four minutes ago, I called for reservation 2 on the main contractor's responsibility. When it was discussed in the Committee on Finance, the Social Democrats voted it down. But you will get a new chance to vote for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 on main entrepreneurship responsibility in this afternoon's vote. Just press the right button and we'll get it through. If you press the 'no' button, I will inform the voters that the Social Democrats have voted 'no', because I think that is a pity. Of course, collective agreements are great, at least for those who want them. Of course, those who absolutely don't want it should not. But it's up to the parties, not the authorities. The Public Procurement Act was designed primarily to protect taxpayers. The basis is that we should not have a model like in Russia, for example, where you have an incredible amount of corruption and give big, important contracts to your cousin or best friend, but here the taxpayers should be able to go in and see who has won the contract and got the contract. Now the Social Democrats are trying to push their policies through the back door, precisely through the Public Procurement Act. I think that the Public Procurement Act is an inappropriate arena to experiment with obsolete Social Democratic Ampolitics. I'm not going to contribute to that. Collective agreements are certainly great, but it is up to the parties to decide, not the authorities.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-78	Mr President, I would like to At last, new legislation on public procurement is on Parliament's table. We in the Green Party have been waiting for this and longing for it for a long time. Issues we have been pushing for many years to improve the use of our public funds are finally becoming a reality. It is not only the Green Party that has asked for this. A large number of studies and reports in recent years have highlighted the importance of setting environmental and social requirements. In Anders Wijkman's report Good business – a strategy for sustainable public procurement from 2013, social and environmental considerations are highlighted as natural components of the procurement process. The investigator notes that public procurement, properly used, can have an important dimension as a tool for strengthening social cohesion in society. By making demands on environmental and social considerations in procurement, we can effectively use tax funds to create a fairer, more equal and more sustainable society. It is important that we use all available tools to achieve the long-term sustainability we agree on. The new directives emphasise procurement as a tool for promoting common societal objectives. Just as not to use our common assets inefficiently, they should be used to counter environmental objectives and other national and international targets and agreements, such as our own environmental objectives, the Paris Agreement and the UN's new Sustainable Development Goals Agenda 2030. State, municipalities and county councils buy v ara and services for more than SEK 600 billion per year. This is a very large part of the Swedish economy. If that money is not used to build a modern, resilient and sustainable Sweden, not only are the possibilities of using tax money efficiently, but we are also delaying the transition that needs to come. Earlier in this House's debates on public procurement, it has been said that we should only make economically efficient procurements – as if not long-term sustainability would be economic. Now it becomes clear that external costs should also be included, and then we see that a more strategic use actually saves money in the long term, for example in terms of less climate impact – things that give rise to extreme weather. Clearer opportunities to support the local economy have been shown in many studies to have a positive effect. Supporting the local economy is good for the whole local community and the public sector. It is also important that social enterprises that employ people who are normally far removed from the labour market are given better opportunities. Right-to-use procurement is one way of reducing public costs of unemployment and winning important services at the local level. There are therefore many and strong reasons for having high ambitions in terms of setting environmental and social requirements and having a holistic approach to public procurement. In addition to the new legislation, which we are debating here today, we also have a new procurement authority and a new national procurement strategy under way. Together, it will be a major and powerful step in a more sustainable direction. I'm very happy today. I am pleased that almost everyone in this House believes that environmental requirements in public procurement are important. I am pleased that we are finally making it easier to use our common resources effectively for conversion and that we can steer towards better choices and make it clearer what requirements can and should be made. The EU directive on which the proposal is based is in itself very green. This, of course, has facilitated the development of the new legislation. There are some elements that I would like to highlight in particular: Environmental requirements will be easier to set as a basic requirement. They are not technical specifications, selection criteria or award criteria. They are obligations that the contractor to whom the contract is awarded must accept if it is established. These conditions may also include economic, innovation-related and employment-related considerations. There are also far-reaching possibilities to impose specific conditions on subcontractors, for example as regards the conditions for the production of raw materials contained in the goods being procured. That's important, too. It also includes the possibility of taking into account the life cycle costs of what is procured. Life cycle costs refer to the ecological footprint of the entire product, which clarifies both internal and external environmental costs. Properly used will be a powerful tool for the transition to more environmentally friendly products, transport and working methods. There is still a need to develop guidance in this area and methods and tools to measure how these costs are to be calculated. The current regulations will enable this to be used and will encourage the development of these calculations in other areas too, not only in public procurement. I would also like to point out that the new law simplifies for suppliers. One can easily get a different view of today's debate. Small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, have had difficulty in submitting tenders in the past because of the over-requiring nature of the procurement process and the over-requiring nature of the procurement process. It is now clear that large procurements must be split up, and it must be justified if this does not happen. It is also proposed that turnover requirements should not exceed twice the contract value. Perhaps the biggest simplification is that companies should be able to submit a self-declaration, which reduces the requirement for comprehensive documentation. So we are talking about regulatory changes, which we often talk about. Innovation partnerships are another important issue. It enables the development and purchase of an innovative product or service by describing qualifications rather than the product itself. We do not know today what will emerge from digitalisation. To give more opportunity to hold the ear to the ground and to promote early development of, for example, better, more resource-efficient technology is an important opportunity when technology development is fast. Mr President, I would like to However, I am not just happy. Although there are great improvements in the ability to make environmental and social demands, we are not quite getting there. The Green Party has long worked to make it mandatory to set environmental requirements. It is not yet a reality, but something we have to work on in different ways. Awareness of the importance of conversion is increasing, and with these improved requirements we will take a major step forward. But we are not going all the way, so work on this is still to be done. Social protection is particularly highlighted in the EU procurement directives. The regulation indicates that collective agreements and labour law have a crucial role to play in maintaining this protection. With the proposal before us, this part of the directive will not be fulfilled. It's serious. We will be without proposals on that part of the directive. Apart from creating uncertainty as to what actually applies when it comes to labour law requirements, this risks leading to high fines from the EU. One important reason, which has been lost in the public debate, for demanding good working conditions is that it creates fair competition in the market. Otherwise, if the only way to win a contract is through a low price, there is a clear risk that serious companies wishing to provide fair working conditions will not even submit a tender. This can, of course, lead to serious companies becoming more difficult to achieve profitability, and it reduces competition. Public procurement should be part of safeguarding companies that want to be part of modern society. With this, I am in favour of reservation 1 and otherwise of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-109	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved, except for paragraph 7, where I would instead like to support reservation 6, paragraph 9, which I support reservation 8, and paragraph 17, in which I support reservation 14. Today we are debating a new framework for procurement, but I would like to start by thinking about why we have a framework for public procurement. On the Swedish Competition Authority's website you can read that the regulations are there to: Promoting the cost-effective use of tax resources Promoting free movement within the EU Dismantling practices restricting competition Helping businesses to do business with the public sector ensure that the company selling the goods, services or contracts requested wins under the most favourable terms. There are some good things in this bill of 3,000 pages and almost 1,000 paragraphs. I think Janine Alm Ericson described it very well during her first seven minutes and fifteen seconds, but I do not agree with the last minute. Instead, I am concentrating on the complexity of the regulatory framework, because far from everything is good in the government bill. It took the Law Council eight months to read through and review the government's bill. The Council's criticism of both the underlying EU directives and the government's legislative proposals was harsh. It is not only the bill that is comprehensive but also the Council's views, which needed 418 pages to accommodate. The Council of Law writes that the directives show shortcomings of various kinds. There are provisions that are simply incomprehensible or ambiguous and can be given different meanings. Others have a meaning that is understandable but unreasonable. ..................................................... The Law Council states that, in 1994, when the Public Procurement Act was introduced, it was pointed out that the Act was too comprehensive and detailed. That law consisted of 132 paragraphs. Now the bill contains 1 000 paragraphs, which according to the Law Council makes the law difficult to understand and difficult to apply. The Legislative Council also criticises that the Government's legislative proposal is not clear enough and highlights several examples in its referral. Mr President, I would like to The Law Council states that a purpose of the extensive detailed regulation can be assumed to be to want procurement operations to be controlled so as to minimise the scope for abuse. However, this objective is counteracted if the regulation is so comprehensive that those who will apply the law do not have the opportunity to review it in all details. The proposed law has been given a level of scope and detail which is generally undesirable and which may be considered contrary to the normally applied legislative technique in Sweden. After the very harsh criticism from the Law Council, one could think that the government would take a turn and take on board the changes that were proposed. In the next legislative referral, the Law Council begins with: ..................................................... The Legislative Council further states that it is labour law considerations that the draft law is primarily aimed at and that the Government has chosen to go beyond what is necessary for the implementation of Union law. The fact that some provisions describe obligations while others regulate what is permitted or indicate that something should be done makes regulation difficult to understand. Like several consultation bodies, the Legislative Council predicts that the proposal will be difficult to apply. Difficulty is estimated to increase the risk of costly and time-consuming procurement processes. In conclusion, the Swedish Law Council writes: a purpose of the new procurement regulatory framework is to make the rules simpler. The proposals in the present referral are incompatible with this objective. It is therefore questionable whether the draft laws of the referral are acceptable. ..................................................... In an interview with DN, Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi responded to the criticism from the Law Council with the following comment: The Law Council does not reject the proposal. The Council has some points of view, and we have now taken them into account. Mr President, I would like to We shall have fair conditions on the Swedish labour market, but we shall also have fair procurement rules. Collective agreement-like requirements in public procurement, on the other hand, are a major problem. It is an intervention in the Swedish model and excludes new, innovative companies from public procurement. It is an interference in the Swedish model that 4 000 purchasers will interpret 685 central agreements plus all local collective agreements that exist. The Swedish model is based on the parties developing and taking responsibility for attractive collective agreements. Most companies in Sweden are small and medium-sized, and many of them do not even have collective agreements. In addition, requirements for collective agreements reinforce the strong centralisation trend in the procurement system, which in the long term is bad for everyone. Sweden differs from the majority of EU Member States by having, together with Portugal, the lowest percentage of SMEs winning public contracts. The explanation is highly centralised procurement and framework agreements with a few companies. The trend is large-scale. Procurement is growing, and the value is rising, which benefits large companies. We could have a different quality and price level if more small and medium-sized enterprises participated in procurement. As the procurement process has become more complex, the number of appeals in court has increased significantly. In 2005, the administrative courts received 1,280 appeals for public procurement, and ten years later – 2015 – they had increased to 2,937. With an even more complicated and comprehensive regulatory framework for procurement, the review will increase further. The competence of municipalities, county councils and other authorities in procurement and purchasing is generally low. It also turns out that procured contracts are rarely followed up or evaluated. This is where measures should be put in place, so that better procurements, which are followed up, can be made possible, rather than making the regulatory framework even more complicated. Is it difficult, then, to increase the proportion of SMEs involved in procurement? No, I don't think so. We can look at Denmark, where it has managed to do just that. Mr President, I would like to Today, legislation is already so complex that some municipalities choose to provide services on their own. I was doubtful whether I should take this example: In my municipality of residence we have municipal cows. Why do we have that – it is not the municipality's core business to own cows? We did it, of course, to access the opportunity to buy local meat and keep our landscapes open. The complicated procurement rules prevented us from buying local meat that is produced in accordance with Swedish animal welfare rules, so now we own municipal cows. More complicated procurement legislation risks shrinking the public market, leading to less favourable conditions for businesses and less use of tax resources. It won't do anyone any good. Do companies have too few rules to deal with today? Is it too few trials? I know that Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi agrees with the view that there are too many appeals to public procurement – he talked a lot about it in Almedalen this summer. Is there a link between complicated regulations, complex procurement criteria that are difficult to follow up and the number of appeals? Yes, of course there is. As both an entrepreneur and the chairman of the municipal board, I have often been offended by the complexity of public procurement. In my municipality of Mora, we try to keep our rural villages alive by dividing procurements into smaller parts so that someone in the village can tender. We break out parts of the food procurement so that the local country dealer Joel in Venjan can bid to deliver food to the retirement home. Then we'll make sure the village can still have a grocery store. We are looking at whether we can break out parts of public transport so that someone in the village with a traffic permit can tender for a village bus that runs ordering traffic when it suits the villagers and school students. We procure locally grown potatoes from Kurt Fridén in Östnor or Mats Olmats in Bonäs to our municipal kitchens. These were some examples from my municipality of residence. What, then, do our potato growers, farmers, snow shovelers and other small businesses who supply goods and services to the municipality have in common? They do not have collective agreements, and they want simpler procurement rules. Mr President, I would like to I say it again: we want both decent working conditions in the Swedish labour market and the fairest procurement conditions for our small businesses. Otherwise, the countryside will be emptied of people.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-142	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know how to start. The representatives of the Centre Party say here that this has become far too complicated and that you do not want it. I would just like to point out, at least to the listeners, that it was during the time of the bourgeois government that this was negotiated. Then it has gone for a referral and been to the Law Council. But it was during the time of the bourgeois government that they were down in Brussels and negotiated the directive. Maybe it's a back lesson for yourselves, or you did it extra complicated because you didn't even want it-- I don't know. But it seems to me that you actually want order and proper conditions. You keep saying that. Yet you cannot even stand on the hard core of the European directive. So would you rather take a fine from the EU than ensure that we get Swedish salaries that apply in Sweden? That's my question. When it comes to splitting up, there are many good examples from municipalities, which we also heard here in the speech. There are a lot of good examples of municipalities being able to split up, and it will be easier in connection with the new bill if it is passed. It will be easier both for small businesses and to be able to split up in this way. I can't understand why you don't mind. We will increase the competence of the municipalities, including with the help of the authority. Once again, I ask my question on animal welfare: why do you insist on the complexity of health and safety at work, but not on the complexity of animal welfare? Is animal welfare – protection for pigs and cows – therefore more important than protection for workers?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-146	Mr President, I would like to Part of the bill – or the whole, if Monica Green thinks – was negotiated under the alliance government. It could be. But who is presenting the bill now? The Alliance government would be happy to take over if that were the case. But it is the government and you who are behind the bill now. That is your suggestion. Monica Green cannot say that this is our proposal because we have worked on it in the past, but it is your proposal. It is you who are presenting a three thousand-page bill with a thousand paragraphs, which are severely criticised for being too complicated. It goes without saying that we want Swedish wages in Sweden. What else would we have? We want Swedish wages in Sweden. Swedish working conditions must be decent. But we do not want to involve this in procurement. Monica Green makes this a question of whether we in the alliance parties would be against fair terms because we do not want this to be included in the procurement rules. That's not the way it is. It is the social partners who take responsibility for the right conditions. Then we will be able to make good procurements. In most cases, there are shortcomings in procurement and follow-up. But if we make it even more complicated and difficult and introduce even more paragraphs, how can we follow it up? How can you follow up on the 687 collective agreements and all local agreements? How are we gonna do that? It will be more difficult for small companies – for Joel, Kurt Fridén and Mats Olmats – to deliver to the municipality. We don't want that. We stand for the nicest conditions for both animals and workers in Sweden. I don't know if Monica Green wants me to say anything else, but she won't be able to.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-150	Mr President, I would like to This message from the Center is absolutely excellent! You stand up for the nicest conditions, and you want people to be able to make demands on labour law. Then just follow the heart of the European Union. Then just stand up for the proposal that we have. Yeah, it's complicated. But now this government has tried to make it less complicated. We make it easier for small businesses. We make it easier, and you don't have to follow all the agreements. It is sufficient to comply with the agreement that is being tendered for in this particular industry. There is absolutely no need to keep track of all the other agreements. It is a fear-stricken propaganda which, unfortunately, the representatives of the Centre Party have also taken on. I am pleased that the Center wants labour law requirements here in Sweden. That's great. I just think it is a pity that you are not standing up for the core that the European Union is now going to implement in the other countries. Is Sweden going to be lonely? We're alone in the North now. Are we going to be alone in the EU not to have the right conditions and not to make demands on labour law? Does the Center think so? Do you think it is too complicated to make demands on labour law, but that it is not difficult to make demands on animal welfare? Why would it be better or simpler? Are you turning more for the cows and the pigs? There's no other way to interpret this. I hope that's not the case. Peter Helander is a nice person, and we usually get along well. I know Peter Helander wants the right conditions. But make it as easy as possible! Make sure that you are at the heart of the matter so that we do not have to impose fines from the European Union!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-154	Mr President, I would like to I say this for the fifth time: we want fair conditions for workers in Sweden. We do not want to involve it in the procurement criteria. You say it's complicated, Monica Green. You agree it's a complicated system. Then why don't we try to make it easier? I'm an entrepreneur. I've been sitting on both chairs; I've been sitting at the chairmanship of the municipal board, and I've been working as an entrepreneur trying to submit an offer to the municipality. It is not easy even with the previous proposal. And it won't be any easier now, when you make even more demands. You mentioned scare speech. You are trying to make it that unless this is included in the legislation, there will be chaos in Sweden. People are not going to get their wages, and it's going to get worse and worse. That's not really the case. Swedish trade unions and the social partners have taken a good responsibility and made good conditions in Sweden. We're all up to that. As far as animal welfare is concerned, I can say that if the pigs become a department of LO and get a trade union trust that stands up for their rights, perhaps we can discuss it. But mixing animal welfare and occupational safety is really mixing apples and pears. We have social partners who represent their members and stand up for them and create good collective agreements. We do not need to use the Public Procurement Act to impose other conditions, as Monica Green accuses others of doing. I assume there's someone who's been pushing Monica Green to get this in. You've had meetings and talked to each other, haven't you? The unions are pushing pretty hard to get this in.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-158	Mr President, I would like to So far we have had a parade on the matter of form. On the substance, however, they have not been able to argue for their positions. The Swedish Democrats put on their uniform – the sacrifice jacket. The new workers' party The Moderates avoided all that they could take into their mouths the possibility of taking employees or workers. It is strange that the Centre Party, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are very much addressing the problem that this will entail. You justify this by making this so complicated for all small businesses, all entrepreneurs and whoever it is now. But you are meeting precisely the four paragraphs that are supposed to be about protecting employees and workers. These are the very ones you lift out of the thousand paragraphs, and that says all about your position. The bill imposes requirements on three terms of employment law, so-called special contract terms. It's about pay, vacation and working hours. 91 per cent of employees in the Swedish labour market are covered by collective agreements. What you want to do is let the 9% that are not covered by collective agreements govern how procurement is to be done. The 9% should be allowed to dump wages and working conditions for the other 91% on the labour market. This directive imposes the same requirements on Swedish as on posted companies. All other claims are directly wrong. Those of you who don't believe me can go in and read on p. 834 in the bill. Small businesses that cannot participate in procurement are those that cannot offer decent working conditions. Actually, that's what it looks like. Mr President, I would like to Imagine that you have a tedious, low - paying, stressful, but also rewarding work where you will assist people in their lives so that it can work satisfactorily. It can be about making sure that the visually impaired Berit comes to work, that Grandma comes to the doctor, that wheelchair-borne Ahmed comes to his meeting, or that parents come to their son's funeral on time. It is a great responsibility and important tasks. But then think that you suddenly find out that you have to work 20 hours more per week to earn the same salary you had before the company won the tender for the service. It should pay to work, usually it is called when the right wants to lower the tax. But apparently it should not pay to work for those who work for companies that have won public contracts. Then tax money should be used to dump wages and working conditions, at least if the citizens and the Swedish Democrats are allowed to decide, and they see that they have a majority here today. For the Swedish Democrats, it is more important to join the directors of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise than to stand on the side of employees, workers. It is so important that they do not even vote for their own proposal, but go to the bourgeoisie and thus lay down the possibility for many taxi drivers, cleaners and construction workers to receive wages in accordance with collective agreement-like conditions. What is a worker worth when you can join the directors? We have a public contract in Sweden. We work and contribute to the construction of society, and we pay taxes to things that we need together. It could be that Grandma should come to the doctor or get a ride to the hospital when she can no longer do it herself, that disabled people should be given a ride to work, that we have to build schools, roads or tunnels, or that common premises should be cleaned. The meaning of that social contract was never that the tax money should be used for submissive competition in order to reduce the wages and working conditions of those who perform the services and jobs to be procured. Mr President, I would like to If we ask people if they want the tax they pay to the common to be used for social dumping, I think the answer will be no, a resounding and clear no. We do not want to treat people in such a way. We find it both unworthy and unreasonable. Nor do we think that bad companies should be knocked out because of unfair competition. Rather, it is the opposite: these are the companies we want to strengthen. Some time ago I met taxi drivers who worked here in Stockholm County. They told us that the then won service procurement meant that they needed to work between two and three hours more per day to get the same salary as before the tender. Imagine that you would have to work 10 to 20 hours more per week to get the same salary as before. Your children would hardly see you, nor would your mate see you. You would be constantly tired and still have the financial crunch – and that to drive the most fragile and vulnerable because the company you are working on has won a procurement that has pushed down your salary and your working conditions. Taxi drivers told us that if they got a service, they knew that they had to work again that time, because they lost money while driving. It also meant that some tried to stay away from those drivings. Then people don't get to the doctor or the job on time, because they have to wait for hours for their car. I want you to know that I met these taxi drivers at the last procurement in Stockholm County. Since then, the price has been squeezed by another 100 million. This week we could read in Dagens Nyheter about taxi drivers who work 60 - 80 hours a week in order to get a salary of 24 000 SEK a month. Four years ago, these drivers had a compensation of $128 per mile for their driving, but now it is $12. Working 60 - 80 hours a week is also a violation of the Working Time Act. How good a driver can you get with those working weeks? People in need of a functioning transport service are also affected, of course. They miss appointments and medical appointments, and they're late for work. The Swedish Association of Visually Impaireds says that the dark talk about how many trips do not take place in time is great because their members do not dare or want to complain or do not have the energy to do so. I'm sure we can say that about a lot of older people, too. For example, my mother would never complain that the travel service did not arrive on time. Taxi Stockholm has guaranteed salaries in accordance with collective agreements for its drivers, and the company's CEO states in an interview:- We can conclude that for us it would have been impossible to perform this service at the tender price that won. ..................................................... Here in Stockholm County, with a bourgeois majority, one seems to be particularly good at using tax funds to pressure wages and conditions. The Christian Democrat who is politically responsible states in an interview that procurement that dumps wages is not the responsibility of politics. Taxi Stockholm but also many serious cleaning companies and construction companies with collective agreements have given up on the opportunities to participate in public procurement. Construction companies and construction workers are outcompeted by companies that systematically use labour from other countries to push down wages that are as low as $2 per hour and to have poor working conditions, all in order to give greater profit to the company owners. Workers are being pitted against workers. Serious companies are being faced with rogue companies. It is companies that have as a business method to push down wages and working conditions to win contracts that win, and the serious ones are knocked out. Or what do you say about competing with the company that offers its cleaners 11 kroner an hour? And how do you think that person is feeling who is forced to do a job for 11 kroner an hour? What do you think that person's life and working conditions actually look like? Would you like to use your tax dollars for this? I think the answer is no. Claims for collective agreements in the Public Procurement Act are part of the profit agreement that the Left Party has with the Government, and we have therefore negotiated that part of the bill. For us, it is a matter of course that demands can be made on collective agreement-like conditions regarding salary, working time and holidays. The proposal proposes that such requirements should be imposed in sectors where there is a risk of wage dumping, deterioration of conditions and unfair competition. Provision is made for insurance and pension requirements to cover all companies, both posted and domestic. This is a clear indication, which was also the aim of the EU, of the desire to express societal objectives with procurement legislation. Part of the social objective must be that we want there to be decent conditions in the labour market and that we do not want wages and working conditions to be dumped or dumping to be financed by tax funds. The fact that the bourgeoisie is on the same side as the directors is not unexpected. Nor is it unexpected that they feel that workers should be squeezed and worn out in their work. For two terms of office when they were in power, we had debates in this House about the time to impose collective agreements in the Public Procurement Act. They then referred to the fact that it was not possible because of the EU. Today, when Europe makes this possible, they stand aside and say that it is too complicated and that this affects only the 9% who do not have collective agreements on the labour market. You just make up new excuses. The fact that they want to use tax money to dump wages is no surprise either. They have always been opposed to the possibility of setting collective bargaining conditions. The fact that the Swedish Democrats end up on the same side as the managers against workers is now no surprise either. To make this possible, they are even prepared to pay tens of millions of fines to the EU. That's what it looks like today. The European Commission is more progressive in terms of labour law than the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeoisie are. So far it has gone in Swedish politics. We must work politically to improve for employees, not to impair them. For the Left Party, it is obvious that Sweden should be a country where employees have the best conditions and wages and where sub-offer competition should not occur. Sweden should be a country where tax revenue is not used to create precarious conditions. They shall be used to safeguard the position of workers and to ensure fair competition between undertakings. Sweden should be a country where the same conditions apply on the labour market, whether it is a labour force from other countries or a labour force based in Sweden. It is both reasonable and dignified. Workers should not be pitted against workers. And then it's supposed to pay off to work – someone said. This should also apply to workers and wage earners performing procured services paid with tax revenue. At least we do. I think a large majority of the Swedish people think so too. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-185	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have come together to debate the Finance Committee's report 7 New framework for procurement. It is a legislative proposal based on three EU directives on public procurement. The new directives develop both the obligation and the possibility of promoting societal objectives through procurement while at the same time providing greater scope for environmental, social and labour law considerations and enabling innovation partnerships. Although we agree here for the most part on the content, it is with sadness that I shall once again discuss the government's small business policy. I want to make it clear that this is about how the government views small businessmen of flesh and blood. It is about how the government wants to black out small and medium-sized enterprises because they have not become big enough to be included in the Social Democratic industrial family. This may be a shock to the Government, but it is nothing new to us who stand with both feet in the mud. We know that there are small and medium-sized enterprises which employ a person or which are sometimes made up only of the trader himself. This applies, for example, to startups. For us, it is simply not reasonable to exclude this whole group from the public sector. According to figures from Entrepreneurs, 60% of SMEs do not have collective agreements. This represents more than 140 000 of Sweden's small businesses. Carefully, about half a million people currently work in these companies, which do not have collective agreements or hang agreements. These companies are an important part of Sweden's economy and success and must be respected by trade unions and decision-makers as well as others. It is about small businessmen who strive to do a good job and contribute to our common welfare but who do not have a collective agreement. Is a shoemaker who goes up into the dark every morning to warm up his shop before his employee – in singulars – a worse entrepreneur because the entrepreneur opens the door to an employee instead of 50? Is the shoemaker's tax money for health care, school and care less valuable for it? Is the job that the shoemaker has created for a person less worth than the dozens of jobs that government companies, for example, can create? Mr President, I would like to This debate is as much about the conditions for public procurement as about the conditions for how Sweden is governed under the government of uncertainty. The debate is part of a game of terrifying forces such as protectionism and nationalism. I see that there are no duplicates in painting conflict lines where they do not exist, or worse still to seek out these as actively as possible. The Swedish model is loaded with obscure messages on websites and squares. It gives me the creeps along my spine; I believe in the inherent potential of people to do good and to want to help their neighbor. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's companies must have good conditions, both at home and abroad. In the era of globalisation, the demands for change have made businesses less and have made them smarter. It is a world that values adaptability, flexibility, creativity and openness to a far greater extent than in the past. It is important that we are clear and equal when it comes to the rules that apply to Swedish and foreign companies operating here in Sweden. I share this view with several consultation bodies, including the Swedish Law Council, but above all the Swedish Competition Authority, which has opposed the government on the issue of including occupational pensions. It runs counter to the principle of equal treatment. It is therefore not possible to impose these requirements on foreign companies, under the Posting of Workers Act. I note that in the 2017 budget proposal, the government points out that the lack of competition in public procurement can be very damaging to society and citizens. Instead of effective competition, citizens will thus have lower quality and less innovation at a higher price. That is something I agree with. At the same time, I see that the proposal that has now been put forward excludes many small businesses from participation. It is therefore in danger of having the opposite effect to that described in the budget proposal. In this connection, I would like to call for reservation 8 on aid and skills for small businesses in order to be able to participate in public procurement. Mr President, I would like to For us Liberals, the issue of collective agreements is a question of freedom. It is the right to engage in trade unionism – in Karl Staaf's footsteps – but also the right to stand outside the union. One should have the right to realize one's dreams through entrepreneurship and through development. You should be able to create something instead of tearing something down. It's freedom for us.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-197	Mr President, I would like to I had first intended to commend Said Abdu for coming to Taxi Stockholm a few weeks ago. But now he's standing here pouring out such complete errors that I don't know if I'm willing to give him that praise anymore. It was good that he wants to come and listen to Taxi Stockholm. But then he tells Taxi Stockholm that it would be scare propaganda that they can no longer submit tenders. He does not believe in the company Taxi Stockholm but says that it is scare propaganda and that there are not low wages in Sweden. It's very strange. Said Abdu is standing in this Chamber claiming that small businesses are not allowed to bid. Nothing can be more wrong. It is quite possible to put tenders in public procurement today, and it will be even easier for small businesses. We are going to divide procurement even more in the future, which will make it easier for small businesses. It is today that small businesses are being knocked out. Small taxi companies in small towns are eliminated as they can no longer bid. Small businesses are not able to bid because they cannot dump their wages. They want fair terms and good labour law. They want their employees to have decent conditions and a salary to live on. Are these small businesses, the serious small businesses, to be knocked out today? Shouldn't they have a chance in the future?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-200	Mr President, I would like to I want to be clear with Monica. In Sweden we must have fair conditions on the labour market. It'll pay off to work. In Sweden, you should have a reasonable salary that you can live on. Wage dumping and other rogue conditions are things that we naturally want to counteract. However, when legislating on measures to ensure good working conditions, we believe that they must be introduced in a way that takes advantage of and protects the opportunities for small businesses to participate in public procurement. I do not know whether Monica Green and I agree on the view of smaller companies, that one-man companies should have the opportunity to participate in procurements. I would therefore like to ask Monica how she views the criticism that the Swedish Competition Authority has highlighted.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-203	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Given this, one-man companies should have the opportunity to bid and of course small companies should have the opportunity to do so. We'll even make it easier for them. It'll be easier in the future. We will ensure that municipalities are better at dividing contracts so that it is easier for small companies. You want to prevent it. You don't want to be on the right terms. Now the Liberals' representatives say: "But we want fair conditions, and we want a wage to live on." Yes, but fine, then just follow this suggestion. We are following the essence of the EU directive that it should be a salary to live on, the decent conditions and regulated working hours. Employees in small companies must of course comply with such agreements, even if there are no collective agreements. You don't have to have a collective agreement, but you have to ensure that employees in your own company have the right conditions in the workplace. I think the Liberals want that too. So you don't have to sign a collective agreement, but you have to follow an agreement that ensures that employees can live on their wages and that they have decent working hours. That's all it's about. Do not try to fool small businesses by claiming that they have to sign collective agreements! They don't have to. It is tragic that the bourgeois representatives here repeatedly try to demonstrate this. We like collective agreements, and 91% of employees in Sweden today have collective agreements. Why should the 91% get worse in the future just because you don't want to make demands on fair terms?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-208	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to inform you that we agree on the view of working time, pay and on vacation. What we do not agree on is, for example, the introduction of occupational pensions. But I still wonder how one views the criticism that has been highlighted by the Law Council and the Competition Authority. If we can respond to what is said in the criticism, we are, of course, pragmatic and prepared to review it. But that is not what has been put on the table of Parliament. We find it worrying that we do not see the challenges highlighted by the consultation bodies. We want to safeguard the opportunities for small businesses to participate in procurements.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-209	Mr President, I would like to If we agree that the special contractual terms on working time, holidays and salaries should apply, why do the bourgeoisie and the Swedish Democrats want to pick out these four paragraphs of this legislation? I'm going to quote a party partner to you, Johan Enfeldt, who writes in Today's Society: In addition, he writes that the dgen's regulations put serious companies at a disadvantage and that the proposal imposes requirements on the reasonable conditions that should be imposed on the Swedish labour market. It is a party partner of yours who stands up for employees' rights, and I think he should be congratulated for that. I want to ask you a question. If you are now in favour of working time, holidays and wages and if you want to combat wage dumping, how will you do so when you want to remove those very paragraphs from the legislation? Why should the 9 per cent of employees not covered by collective agreements govern the other 91 per cent? I would also like an answer to that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-213	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Ulla Andersson. I feel that it is trying to give the impression that we would not be too tight on the labour market. We are in favour of this, but what has been mentioned by the consultation bodies is, among other things, that some of the proposals clash with the Posting of Workers Directive, for example, with regard to occupational pensions. We want to protect Swedish small businesses, and I know that we have a different approach to the issue from what Ulla has. In her speech, Ulla Andersson stressed the workers' perspective. We do, too, but we think it is at least as important to acknowledge and protect the small businesses that create jobs in Sweden, start-ups and single companies, and their ability to participate in public sector procurement.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-216	Mr President, I would like to After all, single-member companies are not subject to the specific contractual conditions. It is they who are employed in these companies that are covered. There's a difference, isn't there? This means that one-man companies can bid under what conditions they want. This bill focuses on employees' conditions with companies that are not sole proprietors. If you read the bill and what the investigators at TCO say, you can see that what you stand here and claim, that there would be different conditions for posted companies and Swedish companies, is a directly incorrect claim. The bill states that the same conditions shall apply to all companies regardless of posting or whether they have their registered office in Sweden. What you manage to meet with such great precision – you are actually impressed – are precisely the four paragraphs that cover the protection of workers' working time, pay and holidays. The other 996 paragraphs seem to you to think it's all right. But it is precisely these four who will protect the employees from wage dumping and dumping of working conditions, who will protect the cleaner from having to work for 11 SEK an hour, who will protect the taxi driver from having to work 60 to 80 hours to get a salary of 24 000 SEK and who will protect that construction worker who works for 25 SEK an hour. It is precisely these four paragraphs that you choose to lift away. Then it can only be said that you are in favour of wage dumping, social dumping and dumping of working conditions.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-220	Mr President, I would like to I repeat what I said earlier: all forms of wage dumping and other forms of unfair conditions for workers must, of course, be resisted. There's a deal. We also agree that there should be fair terms and that a fair salary should be paid in the Swedish labour market. What we do not agree on is the possibility for small businesses to participate in public procurement. We from the committee have announced that in the event of a collision, the government should return without delay to Parliament with additional legislative proposals.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-222	Mr President, I would like to I am quite frustrated by this debate, with some exception. I think that Janine Alm Ericson gave a good description of everything that we agree on in the report. It offers great opportunities for increased environmental protection, opportunities to take different types of social and environmental considerations into account, increased opportunities for innovation procurement and others. I would like to pay a great tribute to Janine Alm Ericson for that statement. I agree with almost everything in her speech and would like to have it recorded in the Minutes. Otherwise, I am a little frustrated by this debate. It is spoken against better knowledge that some parties want social dumping, want people to be torn out, want people to earn 11 or 27 kroner an hour. Unfortunately, I am afraid that things will not get better after me when the responsible minister will speak on the matter, but I am happy to be surprised. That is how the debate has been conducted outside the Chamber. I do not think that this is politics at its best. A lot of placards are waved instead of constructively seeking solutions in difficult matter. The matter is difficult because this takes place at the intersection of EU directives, Swedish legislation and Swedish tradition in the labour market, where the social partners and not authorities set the conditions. This has been fundamental in the Swedish party model. The issue is also difficult because it strikes a balance between different interests, between competition and the effective use of our tax resources. Companies of different sizes – including small businesses – should be able to participate in procurements. We shall have a European internal market as well as good protection for employees in the labour market. Through procurement, we also want to be able to achieve societal goals, both for what the procurement aims for and for how it is implemented – socially, environmentally and ethically. My view is clear, but I would still like to put it on record that no one should earn SEK 27 an hour, whether it is through public procurement or whether it is done in a purely private context. This is not reasonable, and it is not worthy of Sweden. In Sweden, you should be able to live on your salary, and here there should be order in the labour market. Procurement can and must be an instrument that can be effective in a socially and environmentally sustainable way. We therefore welcomed the Christian Democrats' Procurement Authority, which will provide better support to the contracting authorities for this to become a reality. Furthermore, the Christian Democrats and the Alliance have been clear that it is reasonable to make social demands in procurement, and we think it is good that the directives clarify that possibility. However, we need to do more to ensure that follow-ups are improved. To be honest, there are the main shortcomings here today. Municipalities and other contracting authorities lack the follow-up to the many and often detailed requirements. Let us return to what we are debating most today, namely labour law requirements in procurement. As the government says, I believe that there is reason to look at how and in what contexts such labour law requirements can or should be imposed on wages, working hours and holidays – what is usually referred to as the hard core – in order to secure employees' rights to reasonable conditions when public procurements are made. At the same time, however, I note that, in my view, the government proposal is not up to date. It is seen by the consultation body after the consultation body. The Law Council writes pages and pages about the law's inherent conflicts and how difficult it is to apply. Peter Helander has duly explained and pointed this out. The draft law is incomprehensible and ambiguous, and pages up and down have been filled with comments on it. The Competition Authority has also made significant comments, which we have also heard here. It is believed that the legislation makes it extremely difficult for small businesses, complicates it for the authorities and leads to lower procurement. I note that the government's proposed regulatory framework would create confusion and problems of interpretation for existing collective agreements, the interrelationship of collective agreements and the relationship of collective agreements with law. Not least, the semidispromoting possibility used by the social partners in collective agreements is in danger of being compromised when the Working Time Act is in force. Furthermore, the Government's proposal does not hold up the measure as there is a risk that the proposal will counterbalance the very aim of the EU directives to safeguard and strengthen the ability of SMEs to participate in procurement. The proposal risks breaching the EU's principle of equal treatment as companies without collective agreements or with the wrong collective agreements may be disadvantaged in public procurement. Swedish companies may also be disadvantaged in relation to foreign companies because the Posting of Workers Directive prevents requirements in addition to working time, pay and holidays from being imposed on posting companies. Poor working conditions are not necessarily synonymous with collective agreements. The reality of small businesses and family businesses does not look like this. For the absolute lion's share of them, this is not about not wanting to give their employees good conditions of employment, but that the model does not suit their activities. To ignore all the serious companies that take responsibility but do not really fit in with the model that the government has for what is considered good companies contributes to less competition and less competitive procurement. As a result, fewer companies participate in procurements. Our tax resources are not used in an efficient, efficient and fair way, which must be regarded as a failure of many losers. For these reasons, the Alliance has said no to the Government's definition of the labour law requirements that should or may be imposed on public procurement. Despite what the responsible minister says in the media that it is the responsibility of one party or another to get a regulatory framework in place, I can inform you that it is the government's responsibility to get its proposals through in parliament. I note that the government has not done enough in this regard. Now we're where we are. The government's slowness and, in my opinion, poor product has put us at risk of fines. The speaker who comes after me is the responsible minister, and I would like to take this opportunity to ask a few questions. More than 60% of companies with less than 50 employees currently have no collective agreements. I wonder if the Government is suspicious that all these small entrepreneurs, 60%, want to give their employees good working conditions. Or could it be that the collective agreement model is not adapted to the nature of their activities? This applies, in particular, to the often rather complex insurance contracts contained in collective agreements. Why does the government want to make it so clearly more difficult for serious companies that have decent working conditions but have no collective agreements? We have heard publicly and in this debate that the government believes that the Alliance more or less welcomes wage dumping and does not care about the workers. I am surprised by the high tone that is reasonably used against better knowledge. On the one hand, there is the possibility of rejecting too low tenders, and on the other hand, it is clear in our accompanying motion that we believe in imposing reasonable working conditions on those performing publicly procured services and ensuring that tax funds are used responsibly. We are also prepared to do more. Has the government side read the Alliance's accompanying motion? This issue is particularly relevant given that the Government acts as an agitator rather than as a facilitator in this context. If this is a priority, I wonder why you have made a proposal without holding dialogue and anchoring it. You could have talked to us whether changes could be made to ensure that small businesses would not be affected and to remove some of the hassle that has emerged. Not once have we discussed these issues seriously, nor has the Alliance received a call from the government. In the public debate, it is the megaphone that applies. Instead, the government side could have taken the Alliance's extended hand, which showed that we want reasonable working conditions in connection with public procurement. But we want to do so in a way that safeguards the participation of small businesses and the ability of the authorities to achieve the best the common objectives of society. Instead, the government persists in putting forward a proposal that does not have the support of the Riksdag and painting out opponents of this technical solution as villains. If the government had been more serious about getting better protection for Swedish workers, it would have sought contact to work out a proposal that takes better account of small businesses, reduces some of the ambiguities that exist and ensures that we get a better product than the one that is currently on the Riksdag table. I wonder why the government has not done this and why the Minister of Civil Affairs has not sought contact with the opposition to ensure this. The government must decide whether it wants results and a procurement that works better and contains reasonable social conditions, including for small businesses. Or does it want to remain a free debater on these issues? The market is rather tight when it comes to the latter.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-246	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed is a nice person, and I don't think he's in favour of wage dumping. But I'm beginning to wonder if he really doesn't mind. If you read the bill, you can clearly see that there are no requirements for collective agreements. The requirements relate to three specific contractual conditions relating to working time, pay and holidays. You constantly raise small businesses as protection and arguments for not wanting to allow workers to be protected in accordance with this legislation against social dumping. However, these arguments do not hold true in substance. The aim of this legislation is to achieve societal objectives. One of these objectives is, of course, to protect workers from social dumping. For me as a left-wing party, this is extremely central, because I want it to be the nicest conditions in the labour market. But some of these social conditions are also about small businesses. This applies to several of the provisions of the Directives, such as Regulations 2, 59, 66, 78, 79, 80, 83, 84, 87, 120 and 124. In accordance with the bill, the same conditions apply to posted companies as to Swedish companies. What you come up with in the Christian Democrats and the other bourgeoisie and in the Swedish Democrats is that precisely the four paragraphs that are to protect the employees should be lifted out. But in your argumentation, you don't hear why you do it. You have no alternative, except that it should continue as it is today, so that serious cleaning companies are out-competed because it is always the lowest price that applies. That is the case in 90 – 95% of procurements. That's why we get employees with 11 SEK an hour. Apparently, the Christian Democrats think it should be.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-250	Mr President, I would like to I very much hope, Ulla Andersson, that we can find a solution in which we can make demands on labour law when it comes to the hard core: wages, working hours and holidays. I think that there have been a number of examples which suggest that it may be appropriate, not least on the taxi issue which Ulla Andersson is creditably highlighting. The reason why we say no to this legislation is because we think it has too negative consequences for small businesses. But we are not the only ones who think so. The Law Council and the Competition Authority have also pointed this out. You tell companies that it will be easier for them, but they do not see it that way. They see that it will be considerably more difficult for them to participate in public procurement. In addition, there are a number of inherent requirements in which rules are opposed to each other, where collective agreements are contrary to law and where the interrelationship of collective agreements is unclear. This, too, has been pointed out by the Law Council. Page-up and page-down is unclear for our contracting authorities, and this makes it infinitely more difficult for small businesses to participate in the procurements. That is our main criticism. I hope that was clear from my speech. We want the fair terms to apply. As far as salaries, working hours and holidays are concerned, I think it is reasonable that we should be able to find a regulatory framework that makes it possible to make such demands in public procurement. I hope that we will find such a solution.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-254	Mr President, I would like to Today, there are major difficulties for smaller companies to participate in the procurements, as the size of the procurements is very large. This proposal makes it easier for smaller companies to participate in procurements in accordance with all the provisions I have listed. Significant steps are therefore being taken in the right direction. What is being done in this bill, however, is to say that those who want to compete with unfair terms for employees in the company are not welcome. What this bill says is that reasonable conditions should apply to the Swedish labour market and that three specific contractual conditions should be maintained: working time, salary and holidays. As a left-wing partyist, I would have liked us to have gone further and made tougher demands. I think this would have been a reasonable base to gather around. The major problems encountered in the procurement process are currently affecting individual workers. It is taxi drivers, construction workers and cleaners who pay the price today, among other things because your party partner here in Stockholm County does not think he has any responsibility for the dumping that occurs in the transport service in Stockholm. I, for my part, think it is a major problem. I would have liked the rights and protection of workers and employees to have been the focus of this proposal. But you choose not to. I think that is clear. Perhaps you do not want there to be social dumping and dumping of wages. But you don't really mind. Why else have you lifted out these four paragraphs on working time, vacation and pay? It shall apply to posted persons the same conditions as to Swedish companies. That is what the bill says, and it is clearly written. For example, read p. 834! And read all the provisions about making it easier for small businesses!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-257	Mr President, I would like to As legislators, we have a great responsibility when deciding on legislation. It should be of a measure, and it should not cause major problems for the authorities and for the smaller companies that will be given a chance to participate. It is not only we who say this, but it is said by the consultation body after the consultation body. I've read the bill. I've also read the referrals. With growing surprise, I have taken note of how much inherent conflicts and problems that exist in this legislation and that need to be addressed in order to get a regulatory framework in place that will work in practice when it meets reality, so that we can do what both I and Ulla Andersson want to do, namely ensure that social and labour law requirements can be imposed on the hard core of procurement, ensure that small businesses can participate, ensure that contracting authorities are able to apply the regulatory framework and ensure that the regulatory framework is possible to follow up. I do not think that the bill on Parliament's table contributes to this. I would like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of reservations 7 and 8 and, otherwise, for the proposal contained in the report.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-259	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to the debate and listen to Peter Helander and Jakob Forssmed, two politicians for whom I have great respect and whom I have followed for many years, I realize that something terrible has happened to Swedish politics. We should be able to get along. I realise that both Peter Helander and Jakob Forssmed have problems with social dumping and the difficulties encountered in contracting activities. Nevertheless, they will press the wrong button at today's vote, and the action of the opposition will result in social dumping in contracting activities continuing after 1 January. The explanation for this is the cemented block policy, which puts an end to the necessary reforms in our society that respond to the social problems that affect our citizens. This block policy, Mr President, obscures Swedish politics and puts an end to changes that are about creating a sustainable Sweden. Maybe this will give you a point in social media. Maybe there'll be tweets about the government getting beat up. It may be possible to say on Facebook that the government lost one more time. But I am not sorry, Mr President. It's not us it's a pity. It is not the Members of Parliament, the Minister and the Speaker who will receive 27 crowns an hour. We're fine. There's no need for us. We will have good wages even after today's vote. Those who will have to pay the price for the vote today are instead Sweden's truck drivers, taxi drivers and construction workers. It is they who pay the price for Parliament's willingness to give the government a loss for the sake of prestige. Those who will be in danger next are Sweden's guardians, garbage collectors and IT technicians. These are the professions that are directly affected by public procurement. If we mean seriously, Mr President, that we want to stand up for the fair conditions and Swedish wages in the Swedish labour market, we cannot ignore the fact that this House has enormous power over the labour market. One fifth of Sweden's economy is through public procurement. In the taxi business, we account for 50% of the revenue. Outside the big cities, it is an even higher proportion of revenue in the taxi industry that comes from tax revenue. Then we must shoulder our responsibilities, because it is the people outside this House, without the benefits of the ministers and Members of Parliament, who pay the price for our unwillingness to settle and resolve the problems. Mr President, I would like to It is said that this would make reality difficult for Sweden's small businesses. But it is today that they have a difficult reality when it comes to public procurement. They are exposed to unhealthy low-wage competition, which has been tolerated by Swedish politics. We allow foreign companies with wages far below the Swedish levels and give them priority to Swedish contracts financed by Swedish tax funds. It's today's public market. Swedish Radio went to a construction site outside Malmö where a school was built. It was noted that the minimum wages were SEK 35 per hour on a Swedish construction site. Who worked there? Well, it was seconded labor who came here. Their companies were able to compete out Swedish companies that are serious and pay contractual wages. It is Swedish serious small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who pay the price for the Swedish Parliament accepting unfair competition. After today's vote, we will be the only country in the Nordic countries to allow low-wage competition in the public market against our own employees and entrepreneurs. That's what it looks like today. We know this, Mr President. Jakob Forssmed and Peter Helander know this, and I know this. It is not a state secret that the service contracts are pushing down the salaries of Swedish taxi drivers. It is not a state secret that we have extremely low wages in procured cleaning services. It is definitely no secret that our construction workers are exposed to unhealthy competition from foreign companies with wages that are far below the Swedish levels. We know all this. We know that if we were to make the right decision today, this is the story of 1 January. Mr President, I would like to I and the government believe that all politics in Sweden should be based on two concepts, right and duty. You're supposed to do the right thing. If you live in Sweden, you should work if you can, you should pay taxes, and you should contribute to social development and welfare. But there is also a legal part to this. The state must also ensure that you have your rights protected by the state. The Swedish state must ensure that the Swedish worker is not exposed to unhealthy competition from low-wage countries. The Swedish state must ensure that when it purchases services and works, the tax resources do not contribute to reducing the wages of Swedish workers. We cannot just demand things from our employees, but we cannot give anything to them when they are doing the right thing. Mr President, I would like to I have now had the privilege of meeting many Swedish construction workers, construction entrepreneurs, taxi drivers, taxi operators and cleaning companies over the past two years. The people I've met are doing the right thing. They work longer than we do. They don't complain. But what they are asking of us and this House today is for this House to put an end to low-wage competition and wage dumping. Mr President, I would like to I had a meeting with taxi drivers from the taxi industry here in Stockholm. Unlike Oscar Sjöstedt, who merely meets the directors of companies in these businesses owned by foreign owners, we have tried to meet those who work in the businesses. They testified to a reality that should not exist in Sweden. It's a reality that means they work 11 to 12 hours a day. I went out to the taxi counter in Arlanda to see their reality. They're coming to the taxi counter. Then there is one, two, sometimes three hours queue on the taxi counter to get them to the queue in the terminal. Then they may have waited two to three hours. They come to the terminal, and then there's an hour queue at the terminal. It is perhaps three to four hours that they have been at Arlanda, they arrive there six in the morning, and they have not been paid for three to four hours. Then they get the first run. If they are lucky they get the drive to Stockholm central or central Stockholm. Maybe they'll make 500 kroner an hour. Then we'll rule out fees, taxes and everything else. There won't be many crowns left for four to five hours of work. Those people complained about the road service contracts. They felt that there were even worse conditions in the transportation service in Stockholm County Council. Mr President, I would like to I couldn't look them in the eye when they described that reality, because it's our decision and you have the power. No one else is making the decision. It is the Swedish Parliament that decides on the requirements to be made in connection with transport service procurements. It is those who drive taxis and those who will take care of our elderly and sick who pay the price. Mr President, I would like to The government is based on a fundamental principle. In Sweden, Swedish salaries and conditions shall apply. Foreign companies are welcome to come here, but then they can follow Swedish wages and conditions, Swedish laws and levels of Swedish collective agreements. That's what we're going to ensure. The least we can do if we stand up for Swedish wages and conditions is that when our tax money is used to buy services and works, we must make demands that the companies that receive public contracts also offer wages and conditions in accordance with Swedish laws and collective agreements. The government set up an investigation with a proper process right after the change of power. The investigation produced a proposal to make demands on working time, holidays and pay according to the levels of Swedish collective agreements. We referred that proposal. There were a lot of comments. In particular, they wanted insurance and occupational pensions to be included. We then produced an amended proposal, which was also referred to. There were comments that the proposal would not cover everyone, but only Swedish companies. We saw that it's unreasonable. We shall have requirements that apply to both posted labour and Swedish labour. It's supposed to be exactly the same requirement. That is why we removed occupational pensions and insurance from the compulsory area. In addition, we said: There must be exactly the same demand for foreign and domestic labour. That is why we adjusted the proposal so that there were requirements for minimum levels in collective agreements so that we can also impose requirements on posted workers. There were comments that there are problems for small companies that do not have collective agreements. Then we ensured that we should have rules that make it clear that we should never make demands for the signing of collective agreements. It exists in other countries, but we do not make such demands. The minimum levels of collective agreements should only be observed in terms of pay, working time and holidays. It was said that it could still cause problems for small businesses. It must be possible to apply the terms of alternative collective agreements. We then adjusted the proposal once again so that alternative collective agreements can also be applied. Then the Law Council gave its views. We then approved the proposal for a third time. The proposal now before Parliament is a balanced proposal that has been adjusted three times to adapt to the special needs and conditions of Swedish small businesses. We know what will happen if you vote down the proposal. Then social dumping continues in procured activities. There will be no difference. Then we will continue to read about travel service procurements for 27 SEK an hour. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to call on Peter Helander, Jakob Forssmed and everyone else in this House. You have an afternoon. If you do not believe in our view that there is social dumping in procured businesses: follow! Come with me to the taxi counter and the queue outside Central Station. I'd love to keep up. I'll cancel my activities this afternoon. Then we will meet those taxi drivers, and the debate will be held not with me but with those who are affected and will have to pay the price for the vote this afternoon. I am available to visit with you those who pay the price of social dumping in procured activities. Hopefully it will make you vote differently in the vote.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-282	Mr President, I would like to I was gonna ask you some questions. The Government has listened to the union's views, brought them into the legislation and has then had to back down a little bit. Has the Government listened to the views of the Swedish Law Council and the Swedish Competition Authority and other consultation bodies in full, or has a small adaptation been made? How has this happened? I would like to say once again that I, the Center Party and the other alliance parties are not behind social dumping. We think there should be nice conditions. It is a pity that a level of conflict is being painted about half the parliament being against good conditions in the labour market, because that is not the case. We have also presented an announcement in which we want to see the Government come back with an application that ensures it. It would be so simple if it were black and white. Monica Green laughs a little bit here on the bench that we don't stand for it. We stand for it, but it's a little complicated. As Mr Jakob described, we want to find a compromise. There's been time. But we have not had the opportunity to find that compromise. I wonder: Is there a conflict from the government? Is that why placard politics is being played? I may find it an unpleasant level of debate. I do not want to compare with the American level, but I do not want us to approach that level at all. Can we not find a tone of conversation where we try to find good conditions that reduce social dumping?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-287	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise once again that I believe that Peter Helander and Jakob Forssmed are serious when they say that they are against social dumping, but that must also lead to decisions that change the legislation. There seems to be the wrong answer on how to vote at the vote today. I will also give Peter Helander the right idea that it is not easy to follow this process. This is the largest legislative project in modern Swedish history, with 1 000 paragraphs. There are four paragraphs we are talking about now, but of course it is difficult to keep up with the tours. No, we haven't met the union. On the contrary, the trade unions are dissatisfied with the fact that we did not include occupational pensions and insurance in the compulsory requirements. That's what they wanted, but we didn't meet them. They are also unhappy that we are interfering at the lowest levels in collective agreements. We are making these changes because we want exactly the same requirements for domestic and posted workers. The focus must then be on pay, holidays, working time and the minimum levels of collective agreements. That's how we designed it. Yes, we have definitely met the views of the business organisations. We have adjusted the proposal. It opens the way for the application of alternative collective agreements. We have put forward requirements for minimum levels. We have also said that if you cannot set your salary, you should not make any demands at all unless they are stated in the collective agreements. It is therefore definitely a proposal that is adjusted to take account of the points that have been made on the terms of collective agreements. Unlike the Danish approach, with reference to the ILO 94, we do not impose any requirement to sign collective agreements, but only to comply with the conditions in these parts. I certainly hope that there will be a change in the behaviour of opposition parties, partly because the problems are real and because we have to do something about them, and partly because European law requires us to ensure that public contracts comply with the conditions of national law and collective agreements. Otherwise, it is a violation of EU law.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-294	Mr President, I would like to I also believe that there are great opportunities to find a compromise here. Then perhaps you should not accuse the opponent of wrong behavior. We have a different view of how this should be done. Basically, we do not think different, but it should be the nicest conditions for both workers and small businesses in Sweden. It is important to take account of this, and we do not think that this has been done. That is why we wish to announce that the Government is coming back, talks with the opposition and finds a good compromise.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the message, Peter Helander! I hope it also affects the behaviour of the vote. Then let me emphasise one thing: this government and this bill are now putting an end to the unfair and unhealthy competition that Sweden's farmers and food producers have been exposed to for a long time. I was so incredibly provoked a few years ago when they read the reports that Swedish pig farmers went bankrupt while municipalities and county councils bought pork from Denmark. We now enter in the bill that requirements should be made in accordance with the legislation we have in Sweden regarding animal welfare. This means that we stop discriminating against Swedish farmers. I'm very proud of that. I remember myself as a Member of Parliament asking questions to my predecessor, who was responsible for these issues in the previous government, criticising the government for failing to act. Now I am proud that we have put forward a proposal that clarifies the possibilities of making requirements for animal welfare in accordance with the Swedish legislation. But it will be a little strange if Parliament now decides to make demands on animal welfare but not on employees' rights. It will be difficult to explain this to Sweden's employees: Yes, we in the government did what we could to protect Swedish farmers and animal welfare, but those who work in procured businesses should not have rights. I hope that this discussion will also lead the opposition parties to reconsider, do the right thing and make demands of fair conditions in Swedish legislation as well.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-300	Mr President, I would like to I am not a member of the Committee on Finance, but of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and I therefore intend to make some comments on this matter on the part of the Committee on Transport. One might ask why a taxi driver should be forced to drive for a salary of 27 kroner an hour. In addition, when the driving is procured, the question becomes even more justified. But, says friend of order, it's just to refuse to drive, right? No, it's not that simple. When taxi drivers who were exposed to this wage dumping refused to drive and protested against conditions, they were without driving. They got out of work. I am not going to hang out the company that stands for this wage dumping here in Parliament's pulpit, but I can see that this is the biggest in the industry. Surely all righteous people should realize that this is not an acceptable way of acting on the part of the company? It is also not an acceptable way of using taxpayers' money. Our common tax revenue should not be used for wage dumping. But that is exactly what the Stockholm County Council does. This is just one example of public procurement being used to dump wages and social conditions. Another is Postnord's regular use of Bulgarian drivers, who according to the company run cabotage. The cars and drivers you hire come from Bulgaria and drive out of Sweden to Denmark and back in again. Their salaries are well below the collective agreement. Employees are used for procurement at the lowest price. I call on the government to act against its own companies so that this type of procurement is stopped. Even if Postnord does not receive subsidies from the state, it is not okay in a democratically controlled activity to use transport that is bordering, or even crossing the border, to the legal. I assume that the government will put an end to this as soon as possible. The list of examples can be long, but I will settle for both. The basis for acting in this way is the rules that apply to public procurement, or perhaps rather the lack of clarity of the rules. At present, it is not possible to require that the collective agreement's salary levels and conditions of employment otherwise apply to procurement. The lowest bidder almost always wins. Then employees' wages are one of the factors to play with. The example of the taxi drivers who are forced to drive for $2 (U.S.) an hour speaks clearly. When taxpayers' money is used to dump wages and eliminate social conditions, we must react. It's us in here making decisions. We cannot in Sweden's parliament be silent and without doing something just sit and watch and say: No, we can't do anything, and that's just the way it is. Because there's something we can do. In the Swedish Parliament we can change the rules so that it will be possible to make demands that the conditions contained in the collective agreement apply. We in the Swedish Parliament can change the rules so that employees in Sweden, no matter where they come from, receive a salary that they can live on. We in the Swedish Parliament can change the rules so that the companies that want to do the right thing become winners in procurements. Mr President, I would like to This does not mean that any company, large or small, is discriminated against and cannot participate in the bidding process. On the contrary, it means that everyone who is serious can compete on equal terms. The current regime means that those companies who want to be decent, who want to keep on the terms of the collective agreement and who want to do the right thing cannot compete when others dump wages and conditions. I only refer to the posts that have been here before about Taxi Stockholm. Whether it's small or large companies doesn't matter. Those who do not accept working conditions should also not be entrusted with public tasks. That must be the starting point. But apparently the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats want the order that Swedish taxpayers' money should be used to eliminate competition on equal terms. It is not possible to interpret it in any other way when trying to get away and say: We are going to press the button that means this today. They want taxpayers' money to go to wage dumping. They want taxpayers' money to be used to eliminate social conditions. They do not believe that collective agreements are worthy of protection. The Alliance and the Swedish Democrats are doing exactly what we should not be doing. They sit still and watch employees get hurt. But I am not surprised– I am perhaps surprised that one is clearly declaring one's anti-employee line. Some righteous people with high moral standards, who do not think it is okay to be forced to drive for $2 (U.S.) an hour, are hard to detect. Instead, it is precisely these parties' party friends who have made this procurement in Stockholm County Council of the transportation service. Mr President, I would like to Moderates – or even the entire Alliance – and collective agreements do not seem to go together. It is not even known that the collective agreement is a floor and that it is not a roof. Many of the speeches in the debate today have shown that it has not even been understood that it is the floor that we are talking about and not the ceiling. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, at the last moment in this important matter, I would like to call on the alliance parties which claim to be against wage dumping and so on to think about it. Think about it and put your vote in the right way today! I have little hope that there will be any sobering on this side. Instead, we must take that debate from now on through the electoral movement. Then Sweden's voters have their say. I support the proposals of the Committee on Finance, except in the section on collective agreements. In this regard, I would ask you to accept reservation No 1.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-314	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I have respect for all those in this House who have a commitment to good policies for people in this country. I don't see a few people doing it, but everyone here is struggling to do it good. I was going to talk about entrepreneurship. That is why I went up on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs. However, I will start the discussion by talking about the procured taxi services. I'd like to ask you in here who's making these purchases. Who does the purchases in Sweden? It is our political organisations that make them. They are the ones who in their contracts impose requirements on what should occur in a public procurement. Mr President, I would like to As others have told, the person traveling in the traveling service can testify about fast - moving journeys. It is difficult to get help and support. There's a lot of stress on the staff that's driving. In some places you drive and measure an empty car. There are cars that go around the world, so to speak, in a day without driving. It makes mistakes in the procurement system if you want to achieve most and the best for the citizens. With a focus on Agda or Karl who is going to travel you also reach good situations and good agreements for those who are employees. Turn the discussion around! Do not punish the local companies, which we want to deliver more locally grown and locally produced food to our schools and our care! It's not who it's about. They have forms and methods, which have been mentioned by several representatives, to do good things for the citizens under their conditions. Mr President, I would like to The government's bill leads in the wrong direction. The proposal, notwithstanding what you say, will result in small businesses being disqualified. Competition is falling. Local jobs are lost and lost, while at the same time leading to higher costs for the public sector and less competition. It becomes more expensive goods and services for citizens. The bill is an example of how ill-thought-out politics puts the feet of the small local family business, which creates jobs both in the countryside and in the city, in favour of large-scaleness and sometimes oligopoliticities and monopoly situations. We need more and not less good companies, which have good business, to get the wheels to spin in Sweden. For example, the local tomato and potato growers cannot deliver vegetables to the municipality. In order to manage their business, a family business must work in a different way in agriculture from what is compatible with holiday law etc. You don't start at noon. 8 a.m. and ends at 8 a.m. 16. Nor can you cultivate and harvest so that there is an even division of labour. It is not possible given the weather and the wind. Farmers cannot have vacations and ask the plants to stand still until they are back. Let's say that a consulting firm will sell a service to a university – to take another example. It can be KTH, Chalmers, the University of Lund or Uppsala or whatever you want. Let us say that everyone places demands on occupational pensions, insurance and so on! If there are two people in a family business, they will have to split into four parts. It's not just unreasonable. That's impossible. It must be possible to have different contracts in Sweden and to do the best to be able to participate in public procurement. One can look at the visionary innovation partnership, which means that authorities have a good opportunity to procure in new ways by starting projects. Then there will still be limitations. For when ordering, requirements are made for a separate research and development activity. This means that companies must be larger and have a department for this. Instead, one could say: The innovative should come along. You're supposed to have an activity. You can order it any way you like, but you'll solve the problem. The government risks disadvantageing Swedish companies. We've been into that in many parts. I can take an example with a Swedish company. We can take the construction industry, which has been on the wallpaper, and we can take Skanska. Skanska has operations in Sweden and also abroad. If Skanska makes demands from abroad and participates in a procurement, they can comply with conditions that everyone else abroad can do. But it cannot be the construction company that remains in Sweden and operates based on Swedish conditions. There are thus different requirements for Swedish companies, depending on how the government chooses to discriminate against Swedish companies. Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal puts Swedish companies in a tougher position than foreign ones. They are treated differently. It is also the case that 60% of small businesses apply agreements. They are referred to as something other than collective agreements. But it's a deal, and it's a nice deal. Many of the most innovative start-ups are within this group. It is also within this group of companies that job growth is greatest. The government's demands risk being a severe blow to these companies. There is a clear risk that this will lead to fewer tenders and thus less competition and more costly procurement. I want abuse to be prosecuted. There is legislation. We have constitutions. We have legal systems. Contracts can be terminated. Contracts can be terminated. You can also have processes from the beginning that allow you to look at the maturity of purchases, as it is called in business life. This means an analysis of what it costs. How much does it cost to have an employee in the taxi business? How much does it cost to have a car? How much does it cost to run the business? Is that reasonable? Today there are those who demand that you, for example, have at least 90 SEK an hour – I'm not really sure about the amount, but you should have a good start. In addition, it should be possible to achieve other values. For example, when it comes to school shooting, it may be a matter of having contact with the parents. That is the content we should order in our political organisations in the country. What does Agda, Kalle, Louise, Mohammed and all the others who need help and support get?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-328	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson wonders who does the procurements. But it is a rhetorical question, because she knows that it is politicians who do it – for example Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's own party colleagues in Stockholm County. They're the ones who're doing the calls for taxis, for transportation. They then choose the lowest price, which means that the serious taxi drivers, whether small or large, can no longer bid. They cannot bid, as it should only be at the lowest price. There's never been as much complaints in the service as it is now. Yet we know that there is a great number of darkness, because there are many older people who do not call and complain but who just stand there waiting 20, 25, 30 and 45 minutes for the car to come. That also means, we realized when we were at Taxi Stockholm, that they can no longer bid. They may, however, escape when the companies that only drive at the lowest price are absent. Then Taxi Stockholm will come and pick up the old ones who ordered a replacement trip. In this way, Stockholm County pays for the trips twice. It is completely unreasonable to have it this way! We need order! We will ensure that the Swedish companies have the opportunity to submit tenders in future – does Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson not think so?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-333	Mr President, I would like to Of course it is, Monica Green, that we should have fair terms. For me, however, this does not mean that I should take a position in this legislation on something that would push companies with fair conditions away. I will be able to do all the things, and we will have legislation that holds it all over. All that Monica Green says about dark speeches when it comes to elderly people who travel on duty, sick trips and all that now means in travel is, as I said, of course. You don't dare stand up for your right. We are in complete agreement on this. What I want to happen is that regions, municipalities, state authorities are making the demands that are to be made on the content, that you sit down well in time before you make your purchase and analyse the reality you have to consider: how do we make sure that our citizens are able to travel safely by car from one point to another? How do you make time to load the tools that these people need? It is all these parts and a pleasant approach with all that it means that you should make demands in the procurement. In this way the taxi drivers also get plenty of time and good conditions. It is strange that this is in the taxi industry but not in bus traffic, for example. But there are also requirements for safety belts, security, contact with parents and other parts that contain the soft values that we should have. I want companies to be able to have different conditions that are responsible, that citizens get what they need for tax funds and that the employees are doing well.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-339	Mr President, I would like to One way to do what Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson now lists that she wants to have possible, that is to say that small companies should be able to bid, that it should be good conditions for the employees and that it should be a content that applies, is to vote yes to the bill and make sure that it goes through. This is exactly what we have done. That's what it says. It does not say that collective agreements must be signed. It is AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's lobby organisations that she has listened to that claim. Read the bill! It says clearly that you should comply with laws and rules and give the right conditions, or stated, that you should follow the salaries that are within that level. You may not have signed a collective agreement, but you should have some kind of agreement so that the employee actually knows what it will earn. However, these do not have to be collective agreements. All AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's wishes about how it should be fulfilled in the bill, so please Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson : Take it and read it now before we vote! Just vote for the whole bill, including our reservation, this afternoon.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-343	Mr President, I would like to It went well all the way to the second post. Then it came to this thing where people don't read and can't and don't understand. It's an opinion that has to stand for Monica Green. I believe that we who sit in here and others have read and taken part in this in order to understand and take a stand. There's nothing to laugh about; we have different input values. I think you should respect each other for that. For me, there are three legs to stand on in this. It is about companies being able to have different contracts. It's not like that. Laws and rules are basically in place. It is not that it says and falls with a procurement. This is a procurement strategy. We have constitutions, we have legal systems, we have ways of prosecuting. You can cancel a deal. There are many different ways that form the basis for the Swedish model also when negotiating wages. It's already there. It is not removed and disappears with a procurement law, so it is already there. So we have in this legislation to decide on how it will be good in all respects. I have done it the way I see it, and I see that citizens can do well by ensuring that they procure properly out there. Then the employees also get the good. That's what they're supposed to have. Then we will ensure that businesses of all kinds – farmers with their conditions, family businesses, small businesses and large entrepreneurs – can also participate. We also want to achieve more. We want them to be good at procurement and to be able to sell good Swedish goods on export.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-347	Mr President, I would like to The law on public procurement is about what rules we think should apply, for example when Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's party partners procure here in Stockholm. There should be a regulatory framework that everyone should adhere to and that should be based on, for example, the three specific contractual terms on working time, pay and holidays. It is very clear that it is actually necessary, because today only about 60% of the municipalities impose these conditions. What I'm really thinking about, Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, is: Do moderates really believe that Swedish employees want to knock out the companies they work for? That must be the way to interpret your argument, because the trade union representatives say that this legislation is too soft. Does AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson mean that TCO, for example, would advocate legislation that would knock out Swedish companies in competition with foreign companies? I don't believe it at all. I think that Swedish employees want to protect the companies they work for, I think that Swedish employees want fair conditions and I also think that most Swedish companies want that. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says that it is obvious that we should have fair conditions on the labour market. But it doesn't seem to be that obvious. Today, they are being squeezed away in public procurement, and you want to continue to maintain such a system. I find it deeply problematic that the Moderates, who have called themselves the new Labour Party, are lifting out the very paragraphs that are supposed to protect the workers from wage dumping. Can AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson explain it to me? Why do you lift out these four such central paragraphs of the approximately one thousand paragraphs contained in this bill?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-352	Mr President, I would like to As I told Monica Green, there are three legs to stand on for me when I look at this. That's good procurement. Today, the contracts don't work as they should. There's a lot to do about them. It is also about those who make purchases outside being able to have those tools. They already exist, but you have to start thinking about how to ask your questions and what you want to procure. What am I buying, and how do I do it? I took the example from the travel service with Greta, who should be able to drive in a car with a driver who should not have to run in and run out, and she should not be afraid during the journey. You should make sure to order a content. That is what we are talking about: you order a content that is good for the person it is for. Does Ulla Andersson think that the purchases can be made in other ways? There's a lot to do. Now my party friends in Stockholm have been on the wallpaper all day, but our country is big. There are 290 municipalities, a number of county councils, regions and authorities. The important thing for the country is to order a content. That content then has a price, and that is the price you look at. If you order only at the lowest price without looking at the costs, it can be wrong. That's where new things have to happen. If the legislation on the basis of which our country is founded disappears, such as the negotiation of wages by parties, the disappearance of the constitution or of the judiciary, can errors be prosecuted or action be taken against someone who misbehaves a mission? Can an agreement then be terminated? Is it possible or not possible today?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-357	Mr President, I would like to Is anyone against good procurement? What kind of rhetoric is that? Is anyone opposed to a good content in the procurements? No, not in this chamber. However, we disagree on whether service providers should have good working conditions or not. That's where the conflict lies. The conflict is not about the taxi driver having time to go out and take Grandma in the gate and help her get into the car. The conflict is whether the driver should have a reasonable salary for his job or whether the driver should have what is currently 60 to 80 hours of work a week to get a salary of 24 000 or whether the cleaner in school should work for a few tens an hour. That's where the conflict lies. What you are proposing in your motion, and which will now be heard in the Chamber, is to lift the paragraphs relating to these tasks. You want to continue on the road that prevails today, where salaries and working conditions that are funded from tax can be dumped. You usually say that it should pay off to work, but obviously it should not pay off working in companies that have won procurements. This should not apply there, according to Moderate rhetoric. It is strange that the party that calls itself a new working party cannot see that workers in the Swedish labour market are being exploited today. Workers are being pitted against workers. The bill states that the same terms shall apply to Swedish companies as to posted companies. You want to go against this. You're pretending there's something else in the bill. It doesn't. Read on p. 834, and you will see that it states that the same conditions apply to all companies. We should at least be able to agree on that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-363	Mr President, I would like to It is strange that Ulla Andersson thinks the rhetoric is wrong when she puts forward her own demands that everyone should make good procurements. No one wants anything else. But when there is another way to come up with a solution, but by different means and methods, then it is a matter of wage dumping – everyone who is of a different opinion wants to pay dumping. It is a very strange rhetoric, and it is not worthy. It is not possible to prohibit zero bids. Calls for tender are made for low bidders to explain how they are compatible. It is in that line that the requirements can be set. If you say no to those who make too low a bid, it will not be bad tenders either. They've been stopped. Ulla Andersson himself says that it should be the same conditions for all companies. But not all companies are alike. It is not the case that companies that do not have collective agreements are unsysta. On the contrary, it is a family business, a one-man business and so on. That is what we have reacted to. There must be more possibilities. I want more companies in Sweden to be able to participate in procurements. But there are other ways to come to this. Of course, it should not be unfair conditions that make people receive SEK 11 or SEK 27 in salary. These are your examples, and that cannot be a basic salary. But those wages exist, and they give strange signals. If that is the case, the agreements should be terminated. It's not supposed to be like that. It should be good companies that provide good conditions for everyone.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-367	Mr President, I would like to I listened with interest at the beginning of Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's speech. First of all, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson carefully avoided mentioning that the small companies that want to be decent, who want to do the right thing, are losers today. So must AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. Actually, it is. Family businesses or not– those who want to do the right thing are unable to compete with those who are not doing the right thing. How do small businesses get their feet off what is proposed in today's bill? How's that happening? How do you do it? What is the basis for putting their feet away from them? It has not come to light in any way. If one is to believe Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's contributions, no vegetables or agricultural products will be procured because they are harvested outside of collective working hours. It's not like that. Agricultural products are one of the things that is really being procured today. You have to go back to the toolbox and think about whether what has been said in the debate is true. It is not that way, and it is definitely not in line with the bill.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-372	Mr President, I would like to Different companies work in different ways with different forms of employment. They are all decent and perhaps pay more than some collective agreements. But we haven't talked about floors or ceilings. The agreements are different. I continue to want a variety of agreements in Sweden. It's important. There are new companies, start-ups, owned in different ways. They do good things for the country, and I want them to be able to participate in procurements. We've talked a lot about the taxi business. There is IT, food, all products and services. We are also talking about innovative solutions. But it is becoming more difficult and difficult for small businesses. It's hard to know what to say. The legislation is contradictory in various parts, and the legislation becomes more complicated. The entrepreneur is not able to access all parts. In addition, a large burden is placed on municipalities that will advise on this together with authorities and county councils that will have to deal with a queue of companies that need help. It's getting more and more complicated. The whole of the legislation leaves much to be desired. We fear that this is the wrong way to go.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-376	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm beginning to understand better what Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson is after. It's actually saying no to everything. She says there should be no rules for public procurement. There should be some kind of minimum rules. Then there was the question of other agreements. What should you have an agreement for if it is not to regulate pay, social conditions, holidays? Should not the laws and regulations that exist in Sweden apply? What are the other types of agreements? It's your own choice of words. For me, the collective agreement is a floor. If a company wants to pay double against the collective agreement – no problem. If a company wants to give twice as long a vacation – no problem. It's up to the individual company. But now I don't think there are companies that act that way. Companies probably think that collective agreements are very good, because they guarantee a level playing field throughout Sweden and between different companies. We received a letter from the Union saying precisely that – that collective agreements are something that guarantees a level playing field. I said in the speaker's chair that the Moderates and collective agreements don't make sense. It is true of your post here, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. The second example you mentioned, from the construction industry with foreign companies and Skanska, I didn't understand a thing of it. It is clear in the Act that the same conditions shall apply to Swedish and foreign companies. The fact that Skanska has an office abroad does not matter – it is the same terms and conditions that apply.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-381	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has laws in the bottom. We also have parties negotiating salaries and holidays and things we've been into – what we call the Swedish model. But it's done out there. This is done outside the procurement process. You don't have to take that in there. There is already a negotiation on this. You do it in different ways. Family businesses do not have collective agreements or collective agreements-like solutions. They have their deals. That is what I mean by other agreements. The same is true of one-man companies. I don't want to shut them out. It is also the case that collective agreements are not a way of doing things. It happens in the industry that you scratch your head and think about what agreement you should have. You can have lots of different agreements and parts of this. It's a very big responsibility you put on the municipalities to take over this part. It's getting more complicated, harder and more work to look at this. A person who is employed and cleans a municipal building works on a contract while one school works on another, to take just one example of how it can differ. If you are going to have employees who are employed in different ways, you cannot choose the small company if the tender documentation requires you to have it in a certain way. It is a matter of having the opportunity to get it right. Let me say something about my example of foreign companies. I took Skanska as an example because it has operations that are so large that it extends internationally. There are companies that are not international. If you then make demands beyond the core and look at insurance, pensions and so on, you should make extra demands. It is not that Sweden today is insuranceless, as one might think when listening to the debate. If you set the extra requirements in Sweden, this company is outside and in while the small ones can't do it.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-386	Mr President, I would like to I will go into some of a sidetrack in today's debate and talk about the Swedish Democrats' motion 151 Prohibition of halal and kosher slaughter and exercise 2447 Food and food of high quality. Many Swedes today eat meat from animals slaughtered in a completely ruthless manner without any respect for the dignity of the animal, and this meat is often eaten completely without knowing it. The animals are killed and bled without stunning, which means a prolonged death course with unnecessary suffering, pain and anxiety. The ritual method of slaughter that I am talking about is what is called halal or koscher slaughter. Undeaf animals — sheep, lamb, and cows — are trapped in a position in what can be described as a tumble drier and turned upside down in an unnatural and painful way to finally have the throat cut. Nerves, arteries, esophagus and trachea are cut off. But the knife does not go deep enough to reach two large arteries, which means that the blood continues to pump to the brain. After this, the animal can live for up to 11 minutes before it finally meets its fate and dies of blood loss. A veterinarian describes the procedure in the following way: It is a huge operation without anaesthetic. In all other circumstances, as a veterinarian, I would immediately be deprived of my identification if I did something similar. In Sweden, slaughter without stunning is still prohibited, but according to the former CEO of the Meat and Chark companies, it is common for many Swedes without knowing if it gets ritually slaughtered halal- and kosher meat on their dinner table. Slaughterhouses in other countries over-produce ritually slaughtered meat in order to avoid a shortage of it, and are then exported and sold in other countries as normal meat. In a 2011 report, the French Ministry of Agriculture estimated that 40 to 60% of the animals were slaughtered without stunning, despite the fact that the demand for halal and kosher meat only accounted for around 10% of the slaughter. According to a study by Svenska Dagbladet, none of the country's major charkgrossists could account for either control papers or contract texts that guarantee that meat from animals that have been tormented to death does not reach the Swedish consumers. As there seems to be a market for these products and thus also economic incentives, an increasing number of meat producers are moving towards these slaughter methods. For example, in some producer countries all sheep and lamb meat is slaughtered using this approach. The authorities do not carry out current statistics, but French figures show that up to 80 % of the lambs and 15 % of the cows are slaughtered without stunning. In Belgium, veterinary surgeons estimate the proportion of unneeded sheep and lambs to be 90%. Only in England, according to the figures from Meat Hygiene Service, as many as 114 million animals are slaughtered by slippery slaughter– annually. It is hard to say exactly how best to tackle this growing problem. The Swedish Democrats believe that the problem needs to be tackled from a number of angles, which the motion addresses. On the one hand, Sweden must take a strong stance towards the EU and work for a general ban on this brutal form of slaughter throughout the Union; on the other hand, Sweden must actively seek derogations in the EU so that we can ban imports of meat slaughtered using methods that deviate from the intentions of Swedish animal welfare legislation. What is relevant to the Finance Committee are the demands that all food procured through public procurement be guaranteed to be from animals slaughtered and bled after stunning in accordance with Swedish animal welfare rules. Perhaps we have the most ambitious animal welfare in the world, Mr President, and that is something the Swedish Democrats are proud of and want to protect. We believe that a compromise with Swedish legislation or ethical standards must never be accepted. I support the S verige democrats' reservation 5.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-397	Mr President, I would like to For three hours we have been debating workers' rights in the Swedish labour market. The Swedish democrats choose to debate the slaughter of halalals. In the bill that the Swedish Democrats have now decided to vote against – they go with the citizens – one can say that demands are made for employees to be able to secure reasonable working conditions. There is a requirement that there should be a holiday and that there should be reasonable working time, i.e. that you should comply with the Working Time Act, and that you should be paid in accordance with the terms of the collective agreement. The Swedish Democrats are therefore opposed to this. The Swedish Democrats are now in a situation where the European Commission is more progressive in terms of labour law than the Swedish Democrats are. You are so prepared to go against this proposal that you are even willing to fine Europe in order to do so. You sacrifice construction workers, drivers and cleaners in your fight to run the executives' errands. It is a great betrayal of the country's wage earners. I wonder: how have you come to that conclusion? Why should we not have decent working conditions in the Swedish labour market? Why should workers be put against workers? Why should we not make demands that are reasonable in relation to pay, holidays and working hours? Why should Swedish companies not be able to compete with foreign companies on the same terms? I would like answers to that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-401	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson will know that the same report deals with all kinds of motions, from the proposal that the government has added to the other motions that have been tabled by individual Members and what I have preferred. I find it extremely regrettable that the Left Party is reducing the issue of animals being tormented to death. I have here three articles: Ulla Andersson thinks this is irrelevant in this context. She feels it is a pity that I am addressing this important issue of animal welfare. Nevertheless, I will reply briefly to the second question that Ulla Andersson asked me about. The Swedish Law Council and the Swedish Consumer Agency have made massive criticisms of the bill that is now on Parliament's table. Even your own minister said that even the unions thought it was a bad bill. So you guys out there on the left side seem pretty lonely to think it's a good bill.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-404	Mr President, I would like to What the Government said, and I have also said myself, is that the unions want to go further: that they think they need more protection than the bill actually allows. That's what the union says. What you choose to do is go against all the trade unions on this issue – unions fighting for their members not to work for SEK 25 on a construction site, work as taxi drivers with anything from SEK 27 per hour or work up to 60-80 hours to earn a salary as low as SEK 24 000 per month. It is associations that fight for their members to have the right to a holiday, the right to reasonable working hours in accordance with the Working Time Act and a reasonable salary. These are the ones you choose to oppose. Of all the paragraphs of this bill, you choose to go against the four that are there to protect the employees. That says something very clear about where the Swedish Democrats have ended up. I know that instead of the employees' affairs, you are now running business. It is more important to be on the side of directors than to be on the side of employees. I think that is very clear in this debate. The arguments you have put forward against these four paragraphs are either directly wrong in substance, or they are about form and that the government has not spoken to the Swedish Democrats. You put on the big sacrifice jacket, which you are specialists in putting on. You think it is more important to take the political game than to stand on the side of workers and workers. That is the choice you make, and that is the button you are pressing today. It is a great betrayal of Swedish wage earners, who can now continue to be used with tax money as financing. In order for it to be maintained, you want to pay a fine to the EU. That is your position; I clearly reject it.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-409	Mr President, I would like to It is the kind of rhetoric that Ulla Andersson shows that has led to you not getting through your bill. You are dealing with political placard rhetoric instead of sitting down at the negotiating table and getting through the parts that we also say are good. There are both good and less good parts in the bill, but the bad is considering. If you had taken responsibility for Sweden, you would have sat down at the negotiating table with us, talked about what we agree on and got through it. That is why we have four reservations of your own that you also have the opportunity to vote on, on main responsibilities, training for procurement managers and other things. You have the opportunity to vote this afternoon if you take responsibility.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-411	Mr President, I would like to For me, this is not a legal debate but a debate on values, and it is very clear from what we have heard before. Let us begin by thinking about what collective agreements are and what they constitute. They are thus a cornerstone of what we call the Swedish model: free social partners who conclude agreements, find solutions in workplaces and talk about what conditions should apply. You also get a peace obligation; we have a calm labour market in Sweden. Our central organisations, both on the employer side – SKL, the Swedish Employers' Agency, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and others – and on the employee side – LO, TCO, Saco and so on – support the Swedish model, which allows us to ensure that we have good competitive conditions. We are competing on equal terms, while we see that those who work have reasonable remuneration and wages on which to live a normal life. That is what is at the root of the question: what are we doing to strengthen this model? You should know that the OECD pays tribute to our model. In view of the new labour market and the change in technology that will come, they say that the Swedish model, with parties concluding agreements, is the one that can handle digitalisation, robotics and automation best. Then you reach out into the capillaries, far out into the companies, and find solutions there. For us, it is very important that we can strengthen this basic bolt here in Parliament. It's served us well. It has lifted us in terms of productivity and welfare. Mr President, I would like to Now all parties say that they like and protect collective agreements. Words come out of your mouth so easily. The Moderates like this. The Center likes it. The Liberals like it, and also the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. But when there is a debate on collective agreements, we are always told that what you – the bourgeois on the right, the Swedish Democrats and the whole of everything – defend is the right not to sign collective agreements. This is very important to you. In view of what I just said, that this is a basic bolt that supports our model and our welfare system, you always choose to tell us that there will be freedom not to draw. All posts earlier today have testified that there is actually a control function. There is a purpose of collective agreements – not only to get away from market disruptions so that you can compete on equal terms, but also to ensure that the welfare created is well distributed so that we can live our normal lives with normal wages. It is a very important evaluation and foundation of us social democrats, left-wing parties and environmentalists. But you don't share it. You say you do, but at the same time you resist. I must then say, Mr President, that it is a little provocative that the Liberal spokesperson on economic policy issues himself has been recognised as an entrepreneur because he does not have a collective agreement and has not paid wages but is being pursued by the court. I have been able to read this in Swedish media. It's a bit of a blunder: What about credibility? Do we like collective agreements or not? Do we want fair rules and good conditions of competition or not? Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have now said that they want to sit and cuddle on the couch with the Moderates. The Moderates also do not want to strengthen our Swedish model with collective agreements, and the Swedish Democrats share their values. It is therefore only empty words when you say that you are on the side of employees or want to maintain the welfare model based on collective agreements. That's the truth. Then it can be a bit terrible for good center parties or liberals around the country who see this for themselves: if you do procurements where there are no collective agreements and the conditions are bad, the person who works for the winner of the procurement gets a bad pension. It has been noted in the media that the political leaders in some municipalities say that this is not good and that we should find a common solution in Parliament, because there are so many who lose their pension. We'll have more poor pensioners. This is also a truth that is so clear. But you choose value-wise to say no, and you try to get involved in a legal reasoning and so on. But it's just that you don't like this. You don't like having collective agreements everywhere. You don't like that everyone should be guaranteed reasonable terms at work. But you wouldn't dare say that. That's where the battle stands. I, who sit on the Labour Market Committee, see the motions that fall in every year with attacks on the Swedish model, with attacks on legislation to keep track of the labour market and with attacks on reasonable terms if you become unemployed and so on. There you are, and it is clear that the Swedish Democrats are there with you. In fact, what the centre party said, namely that we should be able to agree, because we see this together. It is just as Minister Shekarabi told us about these procurements that lead to people not being able to live on their wages. They don't get a pension later, they don't have insurance and they live a bad life. Yet you choose to oppose us in this regard. This is something that we must clarify completely in the political debate and make clear to everyone in the kingdom. What is a collective agreement? There are rules for forms of employment, for holidays, for compensation if you fall ill, for leave, for overtime, for travel time compensation, for what will happen in the event of dismissal and for the transition to new jobs and so on. There are rules on occupational pensions and salaries. You also know – and perhaps the Liberals know it best – that if there is no collective agreement, the boss will decide unilaterally. That's it. That's what you're trying to protect, under the guise that it's technically complicated and so on. But that's your assessment, and there you are. We're resisting it. We want order. A while ago I sat with the Chief Economist of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. She raised a discussion with me and asked: How do we, Raimo, get more companies to sign collective agreements? I think that's a good attitude. We must have this discussion if we are to have the Swedish model, our labour market model. I will finally say something about the Swedish Democrats. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, a member of the Committee on Employment, has made it very clear to all of us in this House that there is no conflict in the Swedish labour market between workers and capital and between employees and owners. The Swedish democrats are clear in their thin analysis when they say: What is good for the entrepreneur is good for the employee. Is that why the Swedish Democrats are now saying no, so that it is possible to pay, to excuse the expression, Mr President, of shitty wages on which there is no living, in public procurement?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-431	Mr President, I would like to It is an important and very strange debate that we are having today. It is important because the issues concern economic values of over SEK 600 billion per year. The conflict today has been about something very central: Should the public, i.e. our democratic representatives, help or overturn decent working conditions and the maintenance of the Swedish model when we invite companies to supply goods and services in competition? At the same time, the debate is very strange, because the actions and arguments of the five right-wing parties around this bill today have been and are so hatful and irresponsible, and sometimes almost bizarre. Let me start with the Swedish Democrats, because they are particularly strange here. On the specialized procurement website I nkopsradet.se, you can find an article with the title Here it is noted that the government is working on the issue. A representative of the Left Party – it happens to be me – and a representative of the Swedish Democrats – Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, who is not here today – is interviewed. There you can read the following. Claims for collective agreements in public procurements are consistent with our policy," says Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, Member of Parliament of the Swedish Democrats and Labour Market Policy spokesperson. We've been doing that for years. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström actually says he wants to go further. He says: Generally speaking, we believe that the obligation should apply fully to the level of collective agreements. However, he notes that it may not be practicable today. According to this article, the Swedish Democrats also say that it is preferable not to say that the requirements should be made when it is necessary, as it now says in the bill, but always. The article is dated 24 February 2016. That is the position that Sällström and his party colleagues had claimed for years to be SD's policy. This had been said by the party leader Åkesson in party leadership debates, probably without really knowing or caring so much about what he was talking about. It's usually the case for SD when you get outside the field of expertise with heat and repression. But that's the way it was. In this way they have marketed themselves against working people in this country. Then the Swedish Democrats have changed – not moderated, not nuanced and not met with any new developments in reality either. If something has happened later, it is that more examples of unreasonable working conditions in procured activities have come to the surface. No, instead, the Swedish democrats have turned to a femöringen, because they are so horribly desperate to show themselves the best in the class before money-stained capital forces and because they put their ambitions of power in the political game before every single political position and before every argument. You can only read the Party's motion on this bill. Now, instead, the Swedish Democrats sound like a bunch of puerila and newly-born young mothers, who have also become a little round under their feet, guessed by the good brandy that the more ideologically tough employers' lobbyists have generously offered. I really hope that more people, not least the people who work and work in this country, take part in that SD exercise. There, the Swedish Democrats write, "On the other hand, there are plenty of examples of how small companies and their employees have been harassed by the larger professional clubs." They also state that there is no evidence that companies that do not have a collective agreement would offer worse conditions than collective agreements. ..................................................... It is not clear, in itself, what these twisted claims even have to do with this bill. But apparently the hatred of trade unions and collective agreements is so strong among the Swedish Democrats that they even get a feeling and suggest that the whole bill of nearly 1,500 pages should be thrown straight off. In fact, that is what the motion calls for. Then they have read the bourgeois motion and instead joined it. Now the Swedish Democrats are proposing to reject their own motion and have instead made a line together with the previous government parties. It is a line that means that they should only call for rejection of the politically most combustible here, i.e. everything that is about social and labour law requirements. Then we can take a closer look at this, that is, what has gained a majority in committee thanks to the alliance between the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. By proposing deletions, these five parties want to prevent public procurement from being used to strengthen the fair conditions of competition and working conditions and not the opposite, thus preventing social dumping and the premium of foam. The example of travel services in Stockholm County Council has been raised in this debate. A moderate Member asked here: who is responsible for these procurements? It is the right-wing alliance in Stockholm County Council. Let us remember what the responsible Moderate politician responded when confronted with information that drivers had driven 180 hours a month and still had to apply for support. He said: It is not my job to comment on how our entrepreneurs conduct their business as long as they deliver what we have required them to deliver. It is the kind of unreasonable conditions and the kind of cowardly excuses that the right parties want to safeguard when they demand rejection of the bill in these parts. In addition, this contributes to further legal uncertainty and confusion out there in reality. The same Stockholmske Moderate politicians say about this, for example, by following the levels set by the industry's collective agreements – agreements that we do not relate to today – there the lawyers in Sweden are very clear that the legal situation is very unclear. This is precisely the kind of confusion that the right parties want to safeguard when they reject the bill in those parts. They are also so keen to do so that they even choose to expose Sweden to the risk of getting a fine from the EU because we are not implementing what has been one of the aims of the new directives. The generally market-fundamentalist Commission may therefore criticise Sweden for not ensuring that we do not behave properly to our market in procurement. That's how extreme you behave on that edge. This irresponsible five-leaf clover also has the good taste of asking the government to return, if it finds that the legislation adopted by Parliament would need to be supplemented in some way in order to fully implement the underlying EU directives. It would have been quite funny if it were not very tragic for Swedish workers and for the Swedish labour market model. Mr President, I would like to What we see from the right is bitter contempt for the Swedish labour market model, where a fundamental element is that the collective agreement specifies what levels of wages and other conditions should apply in different industries in Sweden. What else should the standards be based on? After all, we do not have legislation on wages. If we are now to find a reasonable level of compliance, it is the collective agreements that apply, and they cover the vast majority of Swedish workplaces and the vast majority of workers today. So what's to be found instead? It is on the basis of this contempt that we now take the opportunity to undermine the necessary work that has been done to try to improve and modernise public procurement laws in this area. Our friend from the Center Party felt that this was an unpleasant debate. Yes, that is the case – that makes it quite unpleasant if you take a stand for wage dumping. That is the discomfort, and it will not, above all, be borne in this House. In this debate, many attempts have been made to mix up the cards, and I understand why. There is very broad popular support for tax revenue not being used unconditionally and in such a way that the Swedish model is undermined. In a report earlier this year, TCO showed that even 80% of moderate voters think it is very bad or rather bad that companies can win public procurement by dumping wages and working conditions. That's the situation. The work of the Left Party on the right conditions in the labour market will not end, no matter how the vote in Parliament today ends. It will continue in both debates as well as in municipalities and county councils. However, with their positions in today's debate, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats have shown that they are prepared to go very far to facilitate social dumping and rogue actors. I hope that many people in Sweden pay attention and remember that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-453	Mr President, I would like to First, they lowered the wages of the construction workers. I didn't say anything because I'm not a construction worker. Then they lowered taxi drivers' wages. I didn't say anything because I'm not a cab driver. Then they lowered the wages of the cleaners. I didn't say anything because I'm not a cleaner. Mr President, I would like to That is exactly how it happens when gaps grow, when unbridled market forces take over a country, when inequality puts groups against groups and when trust and community decline in society. That is how it works if we do nothing, say nothing and do not fight against this policy and wage dumping. What is at stake today is something that a number of speakers here have mentioned in the past, and it deserves to be said again. What is at stake today is the Swedish model that has served our country well for decades. It is a model based precisely on the fact that collective agreements – those of the right so slandered and despised collective agreements – regulate the conditions of the Swedish labour market. It is a model based on the fact that taxes are paid by serious employers, that wage earners can live on their wages and that together we build a welfare that benefits those who need it. If this tax money is used to counteract Swedish welfare and to dump wages, it leads us step by step to a society that we Social Democrats do not want. It is a society that a large majority of the Swedish people do not want. That is why today's debate is great and important. Unfortunately, this is a process that has been going on for a long time. It did not start today; it gained momentum during the eight years the Moderates ruled the country. A growing inequality and a cracking well-being – The courage eras went to elections as the New M Oderates, but the party's policy is old. For over a hundred years, at all crucial moments, equality, equality and common welfare have been combated. So, as far as the Moderates' position is concerned, nothing is new. It is the same old anti-employee right as we have seen before. But, Mr President, I would like to say, in the honour of the Moderates, that when the members of the party vote today, they are actually voting on the anti-employee policy on which they went to elections. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise the consequences of that vote. If we move away from the Swedish model of collective agreements and allow this Parliament to set wages, we know, through the proposals made by the bourgeois parties, in which direction it would go. I can only warn Swedish employees about what it would be like if a bourgeois government or parliament were to set wages. These would be tough times. As I said, the Moderates' position is sad but expected, Mr President. But I would like to address the voters of the Swedish Democrats. I address the voters of the Swedish Democrats throughout the country – and especially those in Bromölla. The Swedish Democrats have a member from Bromölla in the parliamentary labour market committee who says, according to rumours, to the voters in Bromölla that he is fighting for higher unemployment and against wage dumping. As I said, I am addressing the voters in Bromölla in particular, because I want to tell them that this is not true. Last Wednesday, that is just a week ago, the Swedish Democrats voted here in this House for reduced unemployment. Today, the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament – in this House – will vote in favour of continued wage dumping. I would therefore appeal to the voters of the Swedish Democrats in Bromölla: When Magnus Persson returns to Bromölla after this parliamentary week, ask him why he is betraying you! Ask why he is betraying his voters, and ask why he is saying one thing in Bromölla square and another thing here in Stockholm. Ask him why he is not pursuing the policy he has promised his constituents. Not only is this a bad policy, but it is also dishonest, irresponsible and indecent. I would, of course, like to address the call to all Swedish democratic voters in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The fact that SD is a racist party with roots in Nazism is well known. It is now also well known that the Swedish Democrats are an anti-employee party, and in the Riksdag today it is only proven again. To conclude, Mr President, during the debate today, we have heard in several of the various speeches made by the citizens that they do not want wage dumping. For example, the Christian Democrats Jakob Forssmed repeated it time and again. The question then deserves to be put to Jakob Forssmed: how can one take a politician seriously when he says he does not want wage dumping but – as is obvious today – does nothing to prevent it? But it is even worse than that, Mr President. It is not only that you do not want to prevent wage dumping. If you follow the policy of the Right, this is not the first opportunity, but just an opportunity in an extremely clear pattern. During the eight years that the moderate-led government ruled Sweden, unemployment benefits were reduced and its conditions deteriorated. It is important to point out that precisely this leads to wage dumping. What was done when the Laval judgment hit the Swedish labour market? Nothing was done, Mr President. This created wage dumping. The four bourgeois parties in the Riksdag compete with various wage reductions proposals. They want government wage formation. This creates wage dumping. In contrast, I would like to make it very clear to Sweden's voters and to Sweden's wage earners that we Social Democrats are fighting wage dumping on all these points and wherever it occurs. That is why, Mr President, I would like to support Amendment No 1 and, otherwise, to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-468	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1 and, otherwise, for the approval of the proposal in the report, as Patrik Björck has just done. We have a good moment to think about what this means. I think we have had a good discussion today. It has been a good debate. I also think, Mr President, that it has been very clear on exactly what this is all about. However, I would like to clarify this further, particularly from a historical point of view. For me, this is basically about which Sweden we should live in. Should we have a Sweden where we compete on the global market with low wages and wage dumping, or should we have a Sweden that competes with quality, knowledge and professional skills? The latter road is the one that Sweden has chosen since the Second World War and onwards, when the folk home was built. We built Sweden on quality, knowledge, professional skills and equality. I would particularly like to address the Swedish Democrats when I am going to talk about this. Oscar Sjöstedt and Dennis Dioukarev, who sit here in the hall, are happy to listen to this. Historically, the folk home is something that many in Sweden are proud of. The Swedish democrats often talk about the folk house, which I find shameful – it has nothing to do with them at all. But they're talking about the '50s and the people's home that was built up. If Sweden had at that time competed with low wages and wage dumping, Sweden would not have looked like it is today. Then Sweden would have been a neo-liberal USA or Britain that could not have built up the welfare and equality that we in Sweden today are proud of. I think it is important to think about this and also, as the Swedish Democrats, to talk about it. Now the Swedish Democrats are helping to create that low-wage country – a country where we will compete with each other for low wages. It is not about professional skills or how good we are, but about low wages. This is something that the business community and LO agreed on back in 1938, in the Saltsjöbad agreement. This agreement has served Sweden very well and helped to create the equality that has also been an important success factor for us. I would like to say that the question of public procurement and whether we should have fair conditions here is absolutely fundamental for which Sweden we should have. We have heard mention in the debate today that the world around us is talking about Sweden, and the Nordic countries, as a model. The Nordic supermodel is what the IMF and the World Bank are talking about. Even The Economist writes that we are the model. The model that exists in Sweden is a model with a balance between employers and employees. The collective agreement guarantees that this will work. That is the guarantee that we will not dump wages but have good wages and good working conditions. The proposal we are discussing today does not even require collective agreements. It is a good proposal, but the union criticises it because it is not strong enough. It is so eroded that we say that we should make demands on holidays, working hours and pay according to collective agreements, but we do not have to have collective agreements. Yet the Swedish Democrats and bourgeois parties are saying that they will vote against the proposal. This is distressing. I could talk about this for a very long time. I am really worried about Sweden's future, and I am glad that Oscar Sjöstedt and Dennis Dioukarev are listening to this. I will read from a party motion that the Swedish Democrats have presented here in Parliament. It is about this very thing with collective agreements in procurement and has the title. I read in front of it: our Swedish democrats want to introduce the so-called white-job model. It is a procurement model that can be applied to all public procurement and which imposes a number of requirements on the tendering company. There is also talk of collective agreements, responsibilities for entrepreneurs and greater transparency, which ensure order and order and prevent unhealthy working conditions and wage dumping. The proposal contained in this party motion by the Swedish Democrats goes further than the proposal that is on the table today. I would support this proposal, which I think is even better than what we are discussing today. The Swedish Democrats presented this during this parliamentary term, here in Parliament. It is signed by the group leader of the Swedish Democrats, Mattias Karlsson. It is also signed by the verigedemocrats Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, Magnus Persson and Paula Bieler, who are also – like myself – on the Labour Market Committee. I wonder where Magnus Persson, Paula Bieler, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and Mattias Karlsson are today. They have not been in this Chamber. This is obviously an issue that is of interest to them, because their name is under this party movement. It is the names of these four people that are under it, and among them are the group leaders of the Swedish Democrats. None of them are here to explain to the voters why they have completely turned their heels. It's irresponsible. I would like answers from Oscar Sjöstedt and Dennis Dioukarev on why this is the case and why people have turned their heels. Is it so that you can change your mind from one day to the next? Is there no basic ideology in the Swedish Democrats? Is it just pure populism? I would like them to take a line here so that we can have a debate and debate on this. I want an answer. I have been thinking a lot about this since the Swedish Democrats changed their attitude. There are different thoughts about why they did it, but one thing becomes quite clear if you read what the Swedish Democrats write in their own programme on these issues. I am going to read it again, because I think it is important for all of us to know this. It is the Swedish Democrats who will decide today, who will destroy the Swedish labour market and who will ensure that we cannot get the Swedish labour market in order. In the labour market policy guidelines that the Swedish democrats had during, at least, 2010 and until 2011 – when many of the verige democrats in the Riksdag were active in the party – this is what says in terms of labour market policy: The lack of ideological ties and the protection of special interests in this area mean that the political orientation of the party may change depending on the underlying conditions, political changes and economic conditions. ..................................................... I will take it again: the political orientation of the party may therefore change depending on the underlying conditions, political changes and the economic situation. This is the most populistis ka I've read all my life. You can think of anything at any time. I can agree that this, in a way, is comical, but it is also incredibly serious, because it helps to destroy Sweden and Sweden's future. Someone has to take responsibility for this. If the Swedish Democrats are responsible for this, they should also take responsibility for it. Turning the coat after the wind from one day to the next is not worthy of the Swedish parliament.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-489	Mr President, I would like to Among other things, the Folkhemmet was about, and it is clearly forbidden to mention whether you are a Swedish democrat. But there's a kind of point. Our party hasn't turned 30 yet. In a few years, we'll be 30 years old, so I guess I'll admit that we don't have much to do with the people's homes. That is correct and correct. But we're happy to talk about it, and we're not going to stop doing that. Here's the thing, Mr President: this bill came this summer, in June if I'm not completely wrong. Of course, we were unable to take a position on the bill before it arrived. When the rather comprehensive bill came, we sat down in peace, read it and read some things twice, we discussed, reasoned and took impressions from all kinds of directions and edges, and we finally landed in the fact that the disadvantages of it outweigh the benefits. There are advantages too, and many parts we support. They will pass in today's vote. There is a majority to let through much of the bill. But the conclusion is that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits. What do I mean? Well, I mean a number of things. The disadvantages of making demands on things that go beyond the strict core, demands that can only be made on Swedish entrepreneurs with Swedish employees but that cannot be made on foreign entrepreneurs with seconded workers, we cannot support them. If we had sat down, we might have been able to come up with a middle way or a better way. But, of course, we cannot support the disadvantage of excluding the majority of small businesses from public procurement. I was also earlier in my speech that if we had been able to sit down with the government and with the rest of the opposition we might have found a way that works for all of us. I think that would have been possible, Mr President. But now the government has chosen the conflict line instead.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-493	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Oscar Sjöstedt! That is an interesting answer with which I am not quite satisfied. I don't feel that it answered the question I asked. What I would like to know is how you can change your mind from one day to the next. So there are widely differing opinions ideologically. You stand behind employees' rights one day and the other day you turn your coat after the wind and you don't. You mentioned earlier in your speech that you have spent almost too much time reading the bill this summer. I think that is rather irresponsible to say, because this is something that affects very many people's everyday lives and, for that matter, the future of Sweden. I would like to read a quote from Björn Söder from May 1 in Perstorp 2004. Björn Söder says: May Day is the day of the labour movement and the working people. Given how far the Social Democrats have distanced themselves precisely from the ordinary working people, who once carried up their movement, it is quite logical that it is we Swedish democrats and not the Social Democrats who are demonstrating here in Perstorp today. The Swedish Democrats were thus in 2004 in some way interested in taking over the first May in Perstorp in Skåne. They felt that they represented the interests of employees and that it was their turn to take the fight for employees. When the Swedish Democrats then entered the Riksdag, they aroused a motion. Erik Almqvist was the person who signed the motion, who was supported by his party. The motion is called Abolish May 1st. It feels quite strange to turn your coat after the wind even when it comes to this. The motion says that it wants to abolish May 1st because it is divisive for the community of people or has a divisive impact on society. It is thus divisive to care about employees' rights. This is a party that everyone must know is a party that cannot be trusted. And why is that, Oscar Sjöstedt? Do you have any basic ideology, or can you think of anything at any time?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-500	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is impossible for me to discuss what other people have said, especially people who are not members of parliament or even belong to the party anymore. Again: The bill came this summer. We sat down and discussed. When we finished, we presented our position. It's not weird. That's how we work. But I think we are missing a perspective when we talk about overall security for employees. I have a conviction that is something like this: you can do a lot of good things in legislation, and other things you can agree on, some things are dispositive a, other things are dispassionate and so on. Regardless of the rules of rotation, the Employment Protection Act and all collective agreements, it can still go a long way for the individual. Then the greatest basic security must be in the knowledge that you can find a new job and support yourself and your family. We have seen proposals from the current government that have a strong negative impact on Swedish entrepreneurship and have a detrimental impact on employment, and there are even more proposals in the pipeline. We have all sorts of harmful taxes – business tax, airline tax, mileage tax – that hit industries in the country and in the big city very hard. We are opposed to this, because we must understand that the basis for employment is that we have an entrepreneurial climate that is friendly to entrepreneurs. The government can't do that. I think that if you ask employees what is most important, they would say that it is safe to have a job and that if things go wrong, you can find a new job. I think that's number one, and that's actually more important. This is, of course, part of such a proposal.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-505	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Oscar! I thought I was clear about who the person was who gave the speech on May 1st in Perstorp 2004, but I can be clear one more time. So it was the second Vice-President of the Riksdag right now, Björn Söder, and as far as I know he is still in your party. Perhaps something has happened today – there is quite a lot happening in the Swedish Democrats. It is interesting that Oscar Sjöstedt is pushing that the proposal should not apply to seconded workers, but that is exactly what it does. You said you might have spent too much time on the bill this summer, but it seems you've spent more than enough time on it. You should have read that. 834, too. Maybe there were too many sides. I don't really know what the problem was for you. This is a serious issue that affects Sweden's future, so I ask you to read this again. I spoke last week to a friend who has been a small business person for most of my life. He said to me: I cannot understand how anyone can claim that this proposal is harmful to small businesses. I've had problems my whole life when I've tried to win procurements because it's the lowest price that counts. I have had to lie under and therefore could not have had as high a salary as I could have received under the collective agreement, so if the state, municipalities and county councils were to make demands, it would then be on a floor for how low one can walk. Then I can actually get a real salary and real vacation for the first time. It is therefore good for small businesses. Everything else is preposterous to say. My point in this debate – and I think that Oscar Sjöstedt and the Swedish Democrats show it quite clearly themselves – is that the Swedish Democrats are a party that cannot be trusted. It is a party that does not take Sweden in the right direction, but completely ate the pipe. The Swedish Democrats should perhaps change their name to the country's most hostile party, because that is what it is.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-512	Mr President, I would like to I have now been following this debate for over three and a half hours and must say that it is becoming increasingly absurd. I will first say that I am refraining from responding to, among others, Ali Esbati and Patrik Björck and their strange assertions about what the Moderates have their views on labour law and the labour market. It was such embarrassing attacks that I think they deserve the most silence. So what we are discussing today is a law of 264 pages and over a thousand paragraphs. Of them, there are four paragraphs over which we fight, four paragraphs out of a thousand. There are four paragraphs where the government has simply screwed up. They have run right into the wall, fully aware that they will not get through their flawed bill, which threatens both Swedish small businesses and Swedish jobs. Raimo Pärssinen said a little condescendingly that the opposition is involved in complicated legal reasoning. I would like to remind you that we are a legislative assembly which is responsible for precisely the legal reasoning. It's our job and our mission. That's what we're paid for and that's what we're chosen for. We cannot be careless with legislation as the government thinks we can do. A substandard law should not have the support of the Riksdag. It's no stranger than that. If the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government, like us, think it is important to have a comprehensive procurement law that promotes order and order in the labour market, they should take responsibility and seek consensus with the opposition instead of putting forward a bill that threatens Swedish small businesses and Swedish jobs and that receives stunning criticism from a number of referral bodies, including the Swedish Law Council. The whole responsibility for possible EU sanctions and for the shortcomings of this bill lies with the government. The government is solely responsible for not even trying to have a discussion with the opposition. As some have pointed out, Sweden is now the only country that has not received a comprehensive procurement law, and that is only the government's responsibility. Let me ask all the Social Democrats here, and you are welcome to take a line on me if you want: why has the government not even tried to find a solution in agreement with the opposition? It's about four paragraphs. Even a discussion with the opposition has not cost itself. Instead, they chose political struggle and put forward a bill that they knew would not get through. Is political struggle more important to the government than solving social problems? Is a struggle with the opposition more important than taking responsibility? How shamelessly irresponsible can a government become? I would like one of the Social Democrats to answer these questions.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-521	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson found it embarrassing that I raised Moderates' views on labour law and collective agreements in a debate on labour law and collective agreements. I knew it was a little embarrassing for him. Now, however, he has the opportunity to explain himself, and that is a good thing. You are welcome to tell us, Jan Ericson, why you and your party colleagues do not want Sweden to fix the EU directive that says that you should be able to make demands on employment law conditions in such a way that employment law conditions can be strengthened in Swedish society in connection with public procurement. Why do you want to stop it together with your former government colleagues and with the Swedish Democrats? You're welcome to explain what the purpose of that is. You are also welcome to explain how you want standards for wages and other key labour market conditions to be regulated in Sweden if you do not want to point to collective agreements as the norm. That is how we regulate this in Sweden. When we do not know what rules should apply in an industry, we point to the broad agreements that the social partners have signed together. If you have a better model, it's great if more people hear about it. Then we can discuss it politically in the debate.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-525	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati may be attacking the wrong person, given that I had 20 years of union background when I entered Parliament. I have also been involved in negotiating collective agreements in an area of agreement. I am therefore well aware of these issues. Besides, I'm a labour law lawyer. So I've got a pretty good eye on this. Ali Esbati says you want to get the European directive fixed. Why, then, have you not presented a bill that can be supported by Parliament? You cannot fix the European directive because you are presenting a poor legislative proposal. Take responsibility for it instead of attacking the opposition. It is not the opposition that should come to the government and say: we have a proposal. Would you like to take it? It is the government that is going to come to the opposition and say: here we have a bill. Can you do that for me? If you can't, tell me what you want to change. You're turning it the wrong way. It is not the opposition that rules Sweden, unfortunately. It is you who do it, and it is you who should take responsibility. Do we have a better model? Yeah, maybe we do. But then, as I said, you have to invite a discussion. You haven't. You have presented a proposal contrary to the consultation bodies, contrary to the Law Council and contrary to the labour market and the business sector. Everyone has pointed out that it will not work, and yet this bill is being tabled. You run right into the wall and have no discussions at all. Then you sulk because you can't get the bill through.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-531	Mr President, I would like to The EU Directive is to be implemented, and the Government takes responsibility for making a proposal after a reasonable preparation. As Jan Ericson probably knows, the preparation process has been long and complex. EU directives are often complex, and this has been particularly complicated. That is why, as the Government stated, a lot of things have been done to satisfy the criticisms of the consultative bodies, to make sure that it works technically and to adapt it to the discussion that has taken place. It's supposed to work with a number of different, sometimes conflicting, goals. That is how a legislative process is done. Jan Ericson does not come from the political core question: What should it look like in Sweden when we conduct public procurement? Is it possible to use the EUR 600 billion involved in the process to strengthen workers' rights within the framework – and limitations – of EU law? Or should you have free hands to do as the Moderates in Stockholm, for example, do, i.e. use it to rather dump wages? It is the latter freedom that the labour law lawyer and the former contractual moderate Member of Parliament safeguard. It is good if the Swedish people know about it. However, I did not get a good answer as to what a better model it is than the fact that collective agreements should be standard-setting, as the Moderates know. Nor is there any indication of this in the motions that have been written and in the preparatory process that has been in place in the committee, where a majority has been found together with the Swedish Democrats.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-537	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati and several others have listed a number of problems. If they are real, fictional, exaggerated or actual, we can discuss another time. However, it is no difficulty to find problems in today's procurements – above all not to find problems where purchasers have been poor at making demands. You don't have to take the cheapest offer. As a municipal politician, I have been involved in scrapping unfair agreements that were completely rogue. In fact, this can already be done with current legislation; new laws are not needed for that. Everyone needs to get their act together, regardless of their political colour. It is definitely a complex processing process. Four bricks with 4,000 pages of material call the government a simplified procurement law. I am not sure that those who are going to apply these laws agree. The more complicated the preparation process, the more important it is that there is a political discussion so that one can come up with a bill that receives the support of the Riksdag. The government has not been able to do that, and that is the government's responsibility, not ours. It is also not helpful to make changes if these changes do not remedy a lack of legislation. You can make as many changes as possible, but if the final result is not good and does not receive the support of the Riksdag, it will not help. The government will then be responsible for possible EU sanctions and any shortcomings in legislation. That taxi drivers in Stockholm can continue to drive for 27 SEK, if one is to believe the opposition, is the government's fault, not the opposition's. Ali Esbati says we have no proposals. The Alliance has a motion. We want the government to come back, hopefully to have talks with us about how to redeem the last four paragraphs and make them work. We have said to the government that we want to, and we have a motion that says that this needs to be regulated. We can't be any clearer than that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-543	Mr President, I would like to I was a little bothered when Jan Ericson said that he did not want to comment on my speech. Above all, this is the reason, for I congratulated the Moderates and acknowledged that they are actually presenting their anti-employee policies to the electorate and then voting for them in the Riksdag. It still honors the Moderates. Now that I've had a chance to take a line on Jan Ericson, I wonder what it is that he doesn't want to feel. Does he want to deny that the unemployment fund's remuneration was reduced and conditions deteriorated during the years of his government? Has he changed his mind when it comes to helping to adjust the deterioration caused by the Laval judgment? Does he deny that the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties claim that the low-wage path is the way to solve the problems of the labour market? In that case, Mr President, no one would be happier than me. That's really just what I said. I gave the Moderates credit for voting for the policy on which they went to elections. Then I listed what this policy means. It would be exciting to hear Jan Ericson's comments on this.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-546	Mr President, I would like to Patrik Björck is always a sly debater. We've had our battles over the years. Patrik Björck knows by now, after all our debates, that the Moderates stand up for the Swedish model, for Swedish collective agreements and for order and order in the Swedish labour market. That's not where the fight is. In this case, Patrik Björck, the battle lies in the fact that your bill threatens Swedish jobs and Swedish small businesses. It benefits foreign companies at the expense of Swedish companies, thereby threatening Swedish jobs. It is not an anti-employee policy to protect Swedish jobs. I don't think so, Patrik Björck. I can list the problems. They have been listed earlier in the debate. We know that small businesses will have problems if collective agreements are required. We know that it is extremely difficult to apply the regulatory framework, because there may be several different collective agreements in the same area of contract. We know that it will be arbitrary, because more demands will have to be made than the hard core. You have to make demands on occupational pensions, for example, and you have to make other demands, it says. It does not even specify who they are. It will be very difficult for small companies that do not have collective agreements to know what requirements the contracting authority will actually make. This is a huge problem – above all, that foreign companies do not have to concern themselves with the requirements that Swedish companies have to comply with. This puts Swedish jobs at risk, and I think Patrik Björck should realise that. I have a straight question for Patrik Björck: Is it okay that Swedish companies are disadvantaged against foreign companies in a procurement, yes or no?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-551	Mr President, I would like to The answer is, it's definitely not okay. That is what we want to remedy through the report and the proposal. It was easy to answer. However, Jan Ericson did not answer the questions I raised in my reply. What does he have to object to my reality statement? Didn't the unemployment fund go down? Didn't the regulations get worse? Jan Ericson just walked past it. That's what my line was about. Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi made a splendid speech in this House earlier. I did not note whether Jan Ericson was here at the time, but the Minister of Civil Affairs invited the bourgeois members to visit reality. I'm not sure if Jan Ericson was included in the invitation, but I'm sure he could be included if he wasn't there. Ardalan is an extremely friendly, open and positive person. Then Jan Ericson will be able to meet the entrepreneurs described by the Minister for Civil Affairs and the employees who have described the current situation, what it is like out there in reality, where small businesses and employees have problems with today's rules. I recommend Jan Ericson to prove reality. Then he may also be able to say yes if he wants to improve for small businesses. Again, does Jan Ericson deny that the unemployment fund was reduced, that nothing was done about the effect of Laval and that the bourgeois parties compete in wage cuts? All of this also causes wage dumping. It is this pattern that it is so important to see.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-556	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Patrik Björck, I deny much of what you listed, but we can discuss all the details some other time. We have had these debates before. To all those who listen to this debate, I can say very clearly: the Moderates have no proposals to legislate on any wages at all, but we want the social partners to regulate wages. We have no proposals to reduce wages for anyone, and we do not think low-wage jobs in themselves are good. On the other hand, there may be points in reducing wage costs, but it is not a question of reducing wages. Patrik Björck did not answer my question about why it is good to disadvantage Swedish companies and benefit foreign companies. Chapter 17 of the bill. Paragraph 2 of the last paragraph states: What is more, what is not clear, but it can be a little anything. This means that a municipality can impose these requirements in a procurement procedure. This means that foreign companies that tender for a contract can ignore the requirements because such requirements under EU rules cannot be imposed on foreign companies. But you can put them in Swedish companies. This means that the Swedish companies are placed outside the procurement process and that the foreign companies get the job. Swedish jobs are under threat. You can't deny that, Patrik Björck. That's what it looks like. That's what the law says. That is the meaning of the law, so do not try to make up anything else! I took note of the Secretary of State's invitation to go down and meet the taxi drivers and explain why they do not get their situation resolved. I think the Minister for Civil Affairs can go down and explain to the taxi drivers why he has presented such a flawed bill that it is not possible to implement it in the Swedish Parliament.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-561	Mr President, I would like to If we start with the taxi business, it appeals for order and for you to vote through the bill today, Jan Ericson. The cab business is bleeding. The serious taxi industry is currently being competed out by the rogue taxi companies. The small taxi companies in the small towns can no longer bid. Small entrepreneurs are being knocked out because we do not have order in Sweden today. Now we have the chance to ensure that we live up to the European directive and ensure that small businesses survive. We make it possible to divide the tenders. We are continuing to help small businesses. We set the same requirements for domestic workers as for seconded employees. It's supposed to be the same in the future. Jan Ericson went upstairs and said, "Please, can't you take a line on me?" He said that several times in his speech. And so we did. Then he said: No, now you took all the line on the wrong person. I'm so good and I know all this, so now you shouldn't have taken a line on me. What's Jan Ericson really gonna do? Does he want to answer lines or not? I see in the bill that we make it easier for small businesses and make it possible. These are the serious companies we are talking about. Because it's not that Jan Ericson is standing here wrangling for the small businesses that want to dump their wages, is it? It should, of course, be the same wage requirement in small companies as in the large ones. There's no difference. Now we are going to ensure that small businesses survive in Sweden, because they are not doing so today. They are being knocked out because the Wild West is on the labour market today.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-566	Mr President, I would like to Monica Green! Of course I'd love to take lines, even of you, absolutely! My point was that you'd be happy to take a line and explain why you've done what you've done. None of you have done that, so you could say that the lines were a little meaningless. But they're still nice to take. Monica Green said that the taxi industry is appealing for this. Well, then Monica Green will have to go down with Ardalan Shekarabi and talk to them. And then Monica Green can explain why the government has put forward a bill that it knew in advance that it would not get through in parliament, but even try to get along with the opposition. If you act like a government, you do not take responsibility, and then you actually have to look the voters in the eye and explain why you have failed so completely. Monica Green has obviously not read the bill, because then she would have known what I said before and that many have touched on before, namely that Swedish companies are disadvantaged in this. Monica Green laughs, but then she cannot know the legislation and what the Laval and EU rules say and what the court has said. We are not allowed to impose the requirements contained in the bill on foreign companies, but you say that they may be placed on Swedish companies. Swedish companies are disadvantaged if they impose different requirements on Swedish companies than on foreign companies. Monica Green can shake her head as much as she wants, but that's what it looks like. That's how it is. Explain to me, Monica Green, how you can say that it does not disadvantage Swedish companies if you make different demands on Swedish and foreign companies! Tell me about it!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-570	Mr President, I would like to Let me explain one more time: we are making the same demands with regard to the core. Surely it is the case that Jan Ericson wants to be at the heart of the issue – what the EU directive contains? That is what we are now going to implement and what the other countries will also be demanding. That is what is at the heart of our demands. It should apply to our serious companies, and it should apply to other serious companies. We make the same demands. You have been concerned that we have added that insurance requirements could also be imposed. So that is not a requirement. There you have reacted and gone completely in the ceiling: Wow, this will knock out the Swedish companies, because what if you use the opportunity to make claims for insurance! That is what you have reacted to, and that is what you reserve against. You believe that the Swedish companies will be knocked out. So Jan Ericson seriously believes that we should not continue to have insurance in the labour market. Of course we should have insurance; so does Jan Ericson. Then your writing will be completely unreasonable, because you really want this. But you are making it difficult for you to claim and make it sound like there are different demands on the Swedish and foreign companies. We have put forward an extremely well-prepared proposal. We have listened to the consultation bodies, and we have made changes in this connection. The proposal is so appropriate – if you can use the Swedish expression a little – that we thought you would be there for it. You want collective agreements and insurance, and you want the fair terms to apply. You're turning for all of this. If you now think what you are saying, you can stand up for what is in the proposal, because we stand up for small businesses in Sweden.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-574	Mr President, I would like to Now, Monica Green, we're gonna have to go back to the team section. You have to separate this. We have the right to impose the demands of the hard core on everyone, including foreign companies. Then Monica Green says you don't have to make the other demands. But it actually says in the law that you can ask them. If we say in the law that you can ask them and Monica Green sits at home in her municipality and is going to make a procurement, she will make these demands. And then it will disadvantage the Swedish companies at the expense of the foreign ones. Why else is it in the law? Why else is it in the paragraph? I'm a lawyer, and I can read law texts. It is explicitly there, and then it will have this effect. Then Monica Green can ralli over this as much as she wants – but that's what it looks like, and then Swedish jobs are threatened. Monica Green doesn't understand this, and I think it's serious. It is somehow the essence of the whole debate: Social Democrats do not understand that their own bill, except that it is substandard, threatens Swedish jobs. It's kind of strange. Otherwise, the whole discussion is absurd. Monica Green is also doing this to discuss what we think as moderates and that we are against collective agreements and one with the other. I am clear about this: we want order on the Swedish labour market. We believe that collective agreements are a good way of negotiating and reaching agreements. We do not think it is necessary to force all companies to have collective agreements, and we do not think that such a requirement should be included in the procurement rules. That's two completely different things. We have some confidence that the parties can deal with this and regulate wages and conditions. Furthermore, I do not think that Monica Green should respond to my comments when she does not have speaking time. But it's a completely different story.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-578	Mr President, I would like to This is a debate that could easily have gone unnoticed by the House. It is a matter that usually does not cause much commotion, but I still think it is worth a minute of the House's time. The IT Minister himself has appeared in the Chamber to listen to this – or will he discuss housing policy in the next matter. Possibly it's an accident at work that he's here right now. The Commission's proposal to promote internet connectivity in local communities – it's a headline that says a little about what it's really about. It would have been a clearer and more frank heading if the Commission's proposal to create an EU contribution to establish free Wi-Fi in government buildings were to be written. It would have said more about what it is really about. This is part of what the Commission is working on to create a single digital market in the European Union. I have to say that this may be the proposal that rattles the most but does the least. The proposal is to create another EU contribution. The aim is to be able to set up free wifi in, for example, a health centre, Arbetsförmedlingen or a square and use EU money for this. When we do a subsidiarity test, we have to decide whether or not something should be done at European level. This is also where the proposal comes up against its first problem. There is no reasonable reason why this should be best done at European level. In some cases, this is already done at local level by, for example, a municipality setting up a wireless data network in a library or a company setting up a wireless network in its waiting room, and a health centre can do the same for that matter. Why an EU contribution to this should be needed is still not quite clear. Why this should need to be coordinated at European level is also not clear. That is why the Transport Committee has chosen to present a proposal for a reasoned opinion in which we, as Parliament, say that this is unlikely to be done at European level. However, we should remember that in order for such a proposal to be able to move forward and stop the process in the EU, much more is required than just little Sweden saying away. It is therefore important that we, as a country in the European Union, continue to emphasise the problems of doing this for taxpayers' money. We shall also emphasise the problems of the EU, while doing so, investing huge amounts of energy in developing the 5G coverage throughout the Union – in principle wherever it lives and moves people – so that we have a duality with two systems that are both supported by the European Union. As I said, this is also one of the Commission's most important efforts to restore confidence in the EU. I think it is a problem to try to use this as a way of showing something good Europe does. I do not think that Europeans or Swedes are so gullible that free wifi at the health centre makes you suddenly walk and become EU-positive. The risk is that the effect will be the opposite. Mr President, I would like to As an EU friend, it is my duty and everyone else's duty to say that Europe should do very well but not something like this unnecessary with our tax money.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-586	Mr President, I would like to Let us now debate the CU1 report. There will be a budget debate in which the alliance parties have no reservations without specific opinions. Otherwise, we have some reservations which I will comment on. We are pleased that ministers Peter Eriksson and Per Bolund are here. This gives us extra tension and depth, I hope, in the debate. I'm glad you wanted to join us. It's important that society stays together. Having a place to call your home is a basic need. We need to secure housing for everyone of different ages and with different social and economic conditions. A good living environment is important, not least for children and young people. We must tackle the increasing segregation and lower the thresholds to enter the housing market. The detailed planning and the rule flora that governs the conditions for Swedish housing is too extensive and needs to be reduced. The Christian Democrats strive for a market with sound rules of play and long-term predictable conditions for housing construction. The conditions of housing construction have been disturbed by subsidies where policies take a leading role which apparently paralyses market participants pending the grant that optimises construction costs. The investment aid introduced by the government should not have become a reality for the good of the housing market. Subsidies are counterproductive, we believe, and the Christian Democrats therefore reject them. Today, unfortunately, there is an acute housing shortage in Sweden. In the previous alliance government, the Christian Democrats contributed to a significant step towards a better functioning housing market. These measures are now being implemented through, among other things, increased construction, but further reforms are needed to create long-term stable ground rules in the housing market. In addition to these introductory words, I would also like to point out that in our draft budget we propose the creation of a will register with the Swedish Tax Agency where you can voluntarily register your will. It is illustrated here that we have two responsibilities in this debate, which are a bit sprawling between the two ministers. I turn to talking about the housing policy objective. In autumn 2011, the Swedish Parliament approved the housing policy objective that should guide the Government's work. The aim is to give all people in all parts of the country a good living environment from a social point of view in which long-term good management of natural resources and energy is promoted, and where housing and economic development are facilitated. The objectives set out reflect the individual consumer's freedom of choice and reflect an ambition to continue reform in the policy area towards less detailed regulation and lower thresholds. It is also crucial to create good conditions for the construction, management and ownership of housing and to facilitate the functioning of housing markets in a way that includes all people. The Christian Democrats believe that there is currently no reason to reformulate the objective of housing policy. When it comes to the accessibility of housing, the Christian Democrats believe that today's building rules for how internal dimensions of housing should be achieved increase construction projects and do not correspond to what residential consumers demand. Walls that have to separate kitchens from other living areas, washing machines and dryers that have to stand next to each other and so on become costly requirements. People with different types of disabilities can have different needs that are even in conflict with each other, and to better meet individual needs, a fund can be created to finance the accessibility of housing. The fund can be financed by construction companies on the basis of the benefits of increased flexibility in design. I call for the approval of Amendment No 10 from the Christian Democrats. It's about geodata. Open and free geodata is very important in order to streamline the flow of information in all social processes and create a well-functioning social structure. Reservation 11 is about Lantmäteriet. I would like to point out that Lantmäteriet does not function optimally and has difficulty recruiting well-trained employees. In several parts of the country, offices have even had to be closed because they have not been able to meet the need for competent staff when this coincides with so many retirements. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the time is ripe for a general review of Lantmäteriet's activities. I would also like to mention that in paragraph 10 the Christian Democrats have starting loans, which is a model similar to the Norwegian so-called start-up loans and the British so-called first step in Help to Buy, and these are relevant to the Swedish context. I'll have to explain a little more about them in a line shift later.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-598	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is now debating Category 18 Housing and construction and consumer policy. In my speech in this first round, I will only touch on the elements of housing policy. At the outset, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report, except in the part relating to reservation 16 which I support. For the rest, I therefore agree with the proposal in the report. Mr President, I would like to The challenges in the residential area are enormous, and solving the housing issue is one of the prerequisites for us to be able to create a sustainable Sweden that actually gives everyone opportunities and hope for the future. That's why the government has made a big effort. We have launched a large housing policy package with, among other things, support for the construction of rental apartments, a building bonus for the municipalities and an incentive for renovation and renovation. We realized at the same time that we made this big effort that it will not be enough. It will take a lot more. That's why we invited the opposition to talk. Unfortunately, they did not lead all the way, but they nevertheless resulted in the government getting a good idea of the main challenges and launched a 22-point programme of reforms for increased housing construction. The government is now working on implementing large parts of this 22-point programme, and I believe that is the most important thing to keep housing up. At the same time, I think it is necessary for us to get into new talks, because there are issues in the area of taxation, for example, where I think it is extremely important that we find long-term solutions to overcome the challenges of housing policy. If we are unable to create overall, long-term and rules of the game, neither society nor the industry will dare to invest, which is a prerequisite. Mr President, I would like to The Government's efforts, but also Stefan Attefalls, started regulatory simplifications during the previous mandates, have obviously contributed to the fact that today we have the highest rate of housing construction since 1975. But one should be aware that in essence it is actually the local government sector's merit that so much is being built today. If we look at the municipalities that build the most, we can see that in many cases they have social democratic council chairmen. The 5 municipalities that build the most in the country are red-green, and of the 15 municipalities in the country that build the most, only 4 are bourgeois. This I think shows that it is in the municipalities things happen, and it is in red-green-controlled municipalities that it actually becomes a workshop. The same trend can be seen in the period 2002-2006. The last time that housing was boosted was during the previous period of red - green rule. The red-green municipalities also lifted housing construction during that period. Basically, therefore, it is a question of municipalities having to take responsibility. And we can see that they do today. Mr President, I would like to 2016 will be a year to remember. The forecast shows that we will begin the construction of 64 000 homes. The forecast for 2017 is that the construction of 67,000 dwellings will begin. Just a few years ago, many did not think it would be possible to achieve. But we've managed to pick up the pace. As has already been said, it is largely a matter of political will from governments and municipalities. But it is also, of course, a question of the urgent need on the market. If we are now to make a mid-term assessment of the government's housing policy, we can say that we are proud but far from satisfied. We still have a lot of challenges. The first challenge we will be working on is that we must keep building going. We have an exceptionally large housing building today. But the challenge is to keep the construction going in the coming years, so that we can actually build out the shortage that has arisen over the last ten years. To achieve this, we need to continue to make regulatory simplifications. Many municipalities testify to long processing times and tough appeal procedures. Here the government must continue to obb. There is a great deal in the 22 point programme that we will continue to work on now. The next challenge is that the state must take on a much greater responsibility, so that state and government sector authorities highlight housing construction as an important priority. Housing and housing must sometimes be given a little more space than today. It cannot be reasonable for authorities to stop and delay construction projects. The third and final challenge to keep construction going is that the building industry's skills supply needs to be secured. The government is working on those questions. Apart from the fact that we have to keep the construction going, there is another dimension that is talked about far too little. We must have socially sustainable and ecologically sustainable construction for the future. It is a question of building energy efficient. It is about the need to build socially sustainable. Above all, we must ensure that housing is built so that people with low incomes have a place to live. This is one of the major challenges that we need to resolve jointly. The government is working on the issue, but we all have to work in the same direction.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-612	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to try the free replica right and ask Johan Löfstrand about a few things. Johan Löfstrand comes from Linköping. It is a municipality that built a lot the previous year, probably as a result of the policy that Johan describes that Stefan Attefall and the previous government were behind. It is therefore the result of regulatory simplification and good market conditions. Linköping will receive 58 million SEK in a so-called construction bonus. Johan Löfstrand surely wants to make it seem that it is the kind of bonuses and subsidies that have boosted the construction. It's not. This is an unimaginably high sum," says our municipal commissioner in Linköping. But Boverket has calculated correctly. SEK 58 million is what Linköping, with 155 000 inhabitants, should have. The difficulty with that kind of money is that they are temporary. You apply and you get the money. But next year you may not get any money at all, because the regulations may be gone. If such support is to bring any real benefit, it shall be incorporated into an operational budget. Then you can hire the staff needed to take care of new arrivals, add plan architects or buy services from consultants. It is this type of activity that is needed to get the exchange of the construction plans you have. But you can't do that with the temporary money. In addition, our municipal councillor describes that it is difficult to recruit the skills that would be needed. My question to Johan Löfstrand is: What is this money supposed to be used for in your municipality of residence Linköping?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-618	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 16. Ola Johansson lifts up the government's building bonus. I think it is one of the very best tools to get municipalities to build. We should be aware that social democracy-led Linköping has taken hold of housing construction to a very large extent. At a glance we can see that a lot was built in Linköping between 2002 and 2006. But when we lost the elections in 2006, the new alliance rule changed the whole structure. From a broad distribution, where the municipal housing company was the engine for housing construction, a redistribution was made that meant that the private developers would build much more. Then came the financial crisis. Almost no housing was built at all in Linköping. If the then Alliance had kept the old construction plans, the municipal housing company could continue to build even in recession. It took many years for Linkö ping to recover and get the construction started again. And now it's built like never before. If I'm going to return to the build bonus, it's the way that the bet generates money this year. It will generate money also next year and the year after that. The money will be used for investment and much more. I know that our Social Democratic Council of Construction already knows what the money will be used for.
i-4chdGMDXNjwaBesUa2jhhr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Johan Löfstrand! I have no idea what Linköping's plan is. Perhaps it is to erect a statue of gold over Johan Löfstrand? This is the type of investment that can be used for this kind of temporary money. My point is that this temporary grant-and-bonus policy, which is a reward for past efforts, is based on a different policy than that which Johan Löfstrand is happy to beat his chest for. I've been to Valla City. I've seen what happens. I have seen the different developers involved in a very interesting urban development project. That's good. But why should the state reward relatively rich municipalities that already supply in the residential area and leave other municipalities alongside. There are municipalities that may need more support. Social Democratic policy consists, on the one hand, of rewarding a certain effort and making it long-term and continuous, but, on the other hand, of restricting the freedom of municipalities to decide what they should spend the money for. Against that policy is the policy of the Center Party. Instead of targeted state grants to municipalities, we invest 10 billion in our budget on general state grants. Such funds can be used to enable long-term wage earners to take advantage of the effects of a successful housing policy. You can work with new arrivals, with education, with social contributions, with friti activities and other things. The temporary sprinkle policy resists long-term sustainable municipal policy.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-627	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson talks about sprinkle policy and bonus policy. This is not a temporary bonus system. This is a bonus system that I believe should be permanent. We will reward municipalities that assume their housing responsibility. Far too few municipalities in this country assume their responsibilities for the citizens who live there and the citizens who will eventually settle in the municipality. I therefore believe that this type of stimulus is extremely important. Ola Johansson says a little bit shrewdly that there is nothing to use the money for. But in Linköping we have a number of vulnerable areas that very well need the money for new bus streets, to rebuild areas and to create confidence and confidence in the future. The money's needed. The building bonus also goes to small municipalities to a large extent. I know some small municipalities in Östergötland that get access to the building bonus. There were 2 – 3 million in build bonus very big impact and will enable you to invest in new plans and new projects. That's what it looks like around the country. Then, hopefully, more municipalities will apply next year. Then it'll be a little less cake to share. But if the interest is so great and if this carrot generates more housing, then the government will have to look at that issue.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-631	Mr President, I would like to I was going to start the shift by asking Johan Löfstrand about this with noise. We from the Alliance would like higher levels of noise regulations than the government is prepared to implement. Now, the issue is in a sort of long bench despite the fact that there is an announcement and will be made another announcement today that this is an urgent issue. A friend of order may then wonder why this is an urgent matter. I have many examples of this. Today this week, there were examples of Social Democratic municipal council chairmen in the Society of Today who spoke about the problem of being able to build near station. I have another example from a town in southern Sweden where 15– 20 years ago a couple of multi-family houses were demolished. Now there is a need for new production and they intend to build these houses. It's perfect, you have detailed plans, water, sewers and roads. However, it is not possible because today's noise regulations do not allow us to build on this place where there are already seven other multi-family houses. With modern technology you should build much quieter houses than those that stand there. Is it not time to modernise these rules and dare to take the step to enable construction? Maybe we should even measure noise on the inside. Why are you so hard to see that we need to take these steps?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-635	Mr President, I would like to Ewa raised an important and difficult question. I agree with a great deal of the challenges described by Ewa. The noise problems in cities today are a huge block for much of the construction. At the same time, we must respect the fact that noise is also harmful to health and something that we must be very careful about. In its 22-point programme, the government has highlighted the noise issue and said that there should be a faster review of the current regulatory framework. That is one of the issues that we will deal with. I also believe that Ewa is right that in the future, the public transport near the location that is important for building the sustainable city will challenge the building rules. Therefore, the government has set aside a fairly substantial amount – 10 million a year – to review the construction rules so that smart systems can be found to build a sustainable city. Basically, I think the government is working on this issue. But it is also a question of a balance between different interests. Then noise is something that is also harmful to health and that we should be careful about in this rather stressful world that we live in.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-639	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what reflects the whole government's housing policy: review and in the future. It's all going to take forever. We are in a housing crisis where many find it difficult to find the necessary housing. We know that this issue would enable people to live near public transport or for the municipality in southern Sweden to build the house very quickly. Your answer to all these questions is: we must evaluate, in future. We don't have time. Your pace of reform is infinitely slow. The municipalities suffer from this. I wish you could say: of course, we will implement this immediately in order to simplify for the municipalities and to enable more places to build homes.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-641	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I talked about the challenges we face in the housing market. I did not mention the word crisis, but Ewa Thalén did so in her question. Looking at the housing crisis that we are in, one wonders: What happened during the eight years of bourgeois rule? I asked Lena Ek and Mats Odell my first written question about the problem of aircraft noise and traffic noise six or seven years ago. Since then there have been some other bourgeois ministers who have held these posts. In the end, it was the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government that solved the noise issue, perhaps not to everyone's delight, but it took almost eight years to resolve that issue. I would like to pay a big tribute to Stefan Attefall, who pushed the question the longest. If we are accused of pushing things on a long bench, then the noise issue has been a long bench issue. With regard to noise, it is important to respect different parameters. I take the view that this is an area in which we need to review in the same way as we need to review a number of other building rules. This is why the government has now initiated a broad review of the BBR that will enable it to be an insight into the regulations that are relevant today in the modern world in which we live and what rules could be changed in order to create efficient construction while maintaining sustainable construction, both ecologically and socially.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-645	Mr President, I would like to Johan Löfstrand mentioned in his main speech that he would like to see housing policy talks in order to move forward in the area of housing policy and to try to remedy the large housing shortage that exists in society today. This is an issue that is not solved so quickly, especially in view of how far-reaching the housing shortage has become in Sweden today. Housing policy talks have already taken place with the Alliance's representatives. These talks led to 22 points, but they may not have reached as far as they wanted to go in terms of major discussions and major changes or issues in the area of housing policy. As Johan mentioned, we have a temporary build boom. The question is how long will we have it? As I understand the increase in housing construction, it is primarily the municipalities that are building a lot. The question is how long they can continue to build and how long they can finance the construction. This is due to the economic situation in Sweden today when it comes to unemployment that is beginning to fall. This is also due to the economic downturn and low interest rates. At the same time, we see great risks in the future. Construction will be more expensive given that there are so many homes to be built in a short period of time. The municipalities may have to build less. There may be a new wave of asylum seekers in the autumn or in the future, we do not know that. Interest rates and the household economy may be affected. So my question is: are the Social Democrats and the government prepared to invite the Swedish Democrats this time to housing policy talks?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-650	Mr President, I would like to Roger Hedlund has well described the challenges facing housing policy. In many ways we have a number of clouds of unrest in the sky. Then it's important to have broad conversations. It is also important that the Swedish Democrats clarify what they have for housing policy. I do not see that you have your own housing policy. I'd be glad if it was clarified better. To invite to a conversation or not is a matter for the government and not something for which individual parliamentary parties are responsible. I don't have a good answer to that question. However, it is important that all parties in this House go home and think about how we can meet the challenges. How are we going to meet the challenge of keeping building up and building socially and ecologically sustainable? How are we going to manage to give everyone a roof over their heads? Yesterday I attended a seminar on homelessness. If we look back a few years and compare with today, it is frightening how many people do not have a roof over their heads and how many families with children do not know where to sleep the next night. This is the big challenge. That is why it is important that we all take responsibility and make wise contributions.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-654	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Johan Löfstrand! The housing policy of the Swedish democrats contains many things that can be highlighted. It is simply reading our motions and the suggestions we make, as well as listening to what I and others say in the speaker's chair. Housing policy talks are about sitting down at a table and discussing the issues. As I said earlier, this concerns several areas, such as fiscal and fiscal policy. It is not always possible to put forward concrete housing policy proposals because they often affect so many other areas and have consequential effects. You have to sit down and get an overview of the issue. It was for this reason that the government felt that the housing policy talks were so important. The fact that I am from here or in other contexts to present political proposals that the government can listen to and then highlight in its talks with the Alliance does not seem like a serious way to come up with a common and changed housing policy and create more housing. This grasps an area far too large to take it in such a way. We would have liked to have sat down with the government and looked at a number of different issues in order to change housing policy and create better conditions. You now have a chance to speak with the Third Block of Parliament, the Swedish Democrats, when the talks with the Alliance are collapsing and form a majority on a number of political issues in this area. When the talks with the Alliance fall, there is a chance to talk to the Swedish Democrats. One recommendation to you, Johan Löfstrand, who here speaks of attempts to invite to political talks, is to take responsibility for this too. Talk to the government about it and don't just mention it in your speech!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-659	Mr President, I would like to As Roger Hedlund mentions, housing policy is much more than just building cranes, roads and building houses. This is a model where we create a cohesive society, create residential areas where people can feel safe and, above all, ensure that people have jobs so that they can afford to pay rent. In the last three or four hours, we in this House have debated the issue of the right to collective agreements. In my municipality of Linköping, a scandal has recently been revealed. Builders and construction workers earn 35 - 40 kronor an hour when building houses because the municipality has not required collective agreements or other insurance policies. This means that those who earn such amounts have no opportunity to ask for housing. Basically, housing policy and community building are much wider than just building cranes. In view of the vote that comes later today, the Swedish Democrats and others should therefore have thought that if we are to have a housing policy that works, people must have jobs, and those who have jobs must be able to pay the rent with the salary they have. That is why we must ensure that construction workers who work today do not earn 35 kroner an hour.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-662	Mr President, I would like to Now we stand here again and discuss housing policy, which many of us find very fun. However, I note that we stand here and discuss housing policy when we are actually in a crisis. According to Boverket's forecasts, more than 700,000 homes are needed by 2025. Although we are currently seeing encouraging forecasts of a high level of housing construction, these are figures that we must all take very seriously. We need to do a lot more. What are we seeing right now? Well, we see young adults living at home with their parents and unable to leave home. We see new arrivals who do not find housing, and we see municipalities that do not find housing for new arrivals. We see people who are divorced and unable to move apart, and we see others who cannot move to where there are new jobs. We also hear about companies that are thinking about and threatening to move their establishment from Sweden because employees do not find a home. I myself also see a relatively reformed government with few ideas of its own and a very slow handling of the ideas it has. This is worrying. I see a government that invests in subsidies, which is not in demand. The industries simply saw them and do not want them. I am most concerned that subsidies reduce innovation and innovation that we have begun to see in the housing sector. What, then, do we need to think about? When we have travelled around and talked to the builders, I usually say that our starting points must be to solve the problems that the municipalities highlight. Many say that more buildable land is needed, and preferably more construction-ready land. We need simpler and clearer planning and building rules, and we need more mobility in the housing market. Some important examples of this are the need for a better and clearer system of national interests. Our starting point is that housing construction should also be a national interest for this to weigh equally heavily. However, many municipalities feel that the state authorities are unclear about national interests and these areas. We need better beach shelter. Why? Well, we need it in order to enable construction outside urban areas and thereby be able to count home new production. We also need better noise regulations, but I mentioned this in a previous line shift. As far as construction and planning rules are concerned, a much better appeal system is needed. It doesn't matter where I go in the country-- that's what people point out. This is taking a long time, and we have to do a lot in this area. I think we need to open up the possibility in step one of moving directly from the master plan to building permits. There's a suggestion. That it is not presented is a pity to me. We would even like the whole planning system to be reviewed. We need what can be carelessly called type-approval, which is about the general approval of series-produced houses. Looks like it's going on too. But then one more thing is needed, namely to be even clearer against municipal special requirements. When I meet those who make serial houses, they say they can't be used. Because suddenly one municipality wants there to be caged language, another wants there to be balconies and a third wants the energy values to be higher. Then the frame cannot be used. This is what we need to work on to make things better. When it comes to increased mobility, we need to look at one more lap of rental. The situation has to play a role. When we adopted the regulations that apply today, it was very clear that the current system should also look at the situation and that it would weigh more heavily. Many people have not been able to do that. This is where I think the government has to go first. In the short term, we need better rules for subletting. This needs to be opened even more. It's the patch, I say. It's the quick way for people to find a place to live. No, it's not the dream home. But it's a place to live. In addition, we need better rules on capital gains taxation. We from the Alliance have a different proposal from the government. We believe that this must be done with a postponement and a reduction in the interest on deferred payments forever, so to speak. We don't think you can do anything small in four years. It's not gonna solve this. There are many important issues. But above all, the government must make sure to make proposals to help the municipalities that are currently working hard to get more housing. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-675	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I do, in fact, always appreciate debating and reasoning with Ewa Thalén. I think the Moderates have a very consistent and clear line in many respects. That is something I appreciate, although I do not agree with all points. Ewa Thalén Finné mentioned in her speech the construction of municipalities. That is something that I think is extremely important. But in the area of the construction of municipalities and municipal representatives, the moderate picture is currently sprawling quite considerably. In Växjö, one of the moderate-led municipalities that took part in the construction bonus, the Moderate Municipal Council says that it is extremely happy and pleased to have received this addition. It will be an extremely important part for you to be able to hire new plan managers and be able to work to streamline your processing, which I see as positive and was a thought with the build bonus. But looking at the statistics on started construction projects for rental rights in 2015, another picture emerges. Täby started six constructions, Nacka four and Ekerö six. Lidingö did not start any construction. This shows that a number of municipalities want to build and a number of municipalities do not want to build. Only a few days ago we heard that a number of Skånen moderate-led municipalities were very annoyed that the moderate-led municipalities in the Stockholm area did not build and, above all, did not want to receive any new arrivals. What is the view of the Moderate Coalition Party on the issue of building and taking responsibility for the migration wave that we are now seeing?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-679	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it should be noted that the constructions that have started now were planned for the previous or previous term of office, possibly with a few exceptions. As far as the list of builders and non-builders is concerned, I could also produce statistics. I could pick up S-controlled municipalities where you don't build and ask the same counter-question. But I won't. I think it is extremely important that you work with growth in your municipality and that you build in your municipality. You have to do this in connection with your locals. At times, as we all know, this issue is more complex. In the municipalities that Johan Löfstrand listed, I know that you build quite a lot. No, right now you don't build rentals. But each one will have to answer for himself. I think it is urgent to build. I have mostly lived in municipalities where you as a municipality think that construction is important for growth and for people to be able to move there. It is also the policy of the Moderate Coalition Party. It's important to build. Then I come back to the fact that a great many people are calling for a modernised and improved regulatory framework now, not in one or two years' time. What is the delay in your proposals?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-683	Mr President, I would like to It is good to hear that Ewa Thalén Finné and the Moderate Party still have the view that it is important to take responsibility for the crisis we are currently in and to ensure that municipalities take their responsibility and build and are part of the great societal challenge that we are facing. I am also pleased that Mrs Ewa Thalén points out that there are both good and bad examples. I agree that there are probably Social Democratic municipalities that could build a little more. But virtually all the Social Democratic municipalities in the growth regions are building to a very large extent. What is my great sorrow in this debate about this rather complex matter is that we see winning and losing municipalities. Some municipalities will win both municipal elections and other things by not being built on solidarity, while other municipalities are working hard to meet the challenges. Of course, the government will deliver regulations that allow you to quickly and efficiently get the construction started. This is why we are currently working on a proposal on temporary building permits, which gives the municipalities that I have listed that do not build so much rents the opportunity to participate and jointly take responsibility for the people who come. I hope that the leadership of the Moderate Coalition Party points to these municipalities and asks them to assume their responsibilities. If the Moderate Party does this, I can promise that I will press the government to ensure that we deliver products that will allow us to build more.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-687	Mr President, I would like to We have a very good dialogue with our moderate councillors all the time. That discussion and the debate are taking place. I find it very interesting to hear that what Johan Löfstrand highlights are temporary building permits. It is a good product in itself. But when will this take effect? Well, it's not until next summer. It was possible to change the Aliens Act and implement the Act that all municipalities should have a requirement to accept new arrivals, and they did so very quickly. But this is not the case with these regulations, which many municipalities are calling for in order to cope with the situation. Among other things, a crisis clause has been requested in the Planning and Construction Act for refugee flows or situations with many refugees. Instead, it has become a crisis clause for asylum homes, i.e. for the responsibility of the state, but zero assistance to the municipalities. I think this reflects the fact that you don't see the problems. I hope that we can adopt these regulations, which we have supported, sooner than 1 July – perhaps until 2 April? Let it go faster with re-housing! But above all: extend the crisis clause to apply in the event of a large influx of refugees! It can enable municipalities to make exceptions to detailed plans. Not only can we hackers, but it is important that we can build sustainable and good housing and that we can do it quickly.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-691	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask a completely different question from the beginning, but I changed my mind, because I didn't feel that we got an answer to a question that Johan asked. How do the Moderates in the Riksdag see that there are so many bourgeois municipalities especially in metropolitan regions, such as Stockholm, which in principle do not build a single tenancy or a small few? Ewa Thalén Finné says that these are plans that might have been launched last year, last year or several years ago. It's about Täby, Danderyd and Nacka. Those municipalities have had a bourgeois majority for a very long time. Is it that Ewa Thalén Finné believes that it is a tradition for bourgeois parties to sell out the entire utility company, as has been done in Danderyd and Täby, for example, and then not add any rental rights at all in a region where there is so much pressure that we need to obtain rental rights for ordinary income earners? I want Ewa Thalén Finné to respond to what they are doing in their own party to ensure that there is a long-term, long-term change to this. We need fair responsibility throughout the country, in all regions, and everyone needs to help. I would like to remind Ewa Thalén that the Moderates have been involved in voting for us to take joint responsibility for the new Swedes. I sometimes hear in the media that the Moderates do not defend what they voted for in the Riksdag. They hold Täby and other municipalities back. Is it also your idea to do that?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-696	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that when we or for that matter S are in the debate we always highlight those municipalities that build fewer rental apartments than some others do. You never point out those who build a lot. It's very interesting. It is Växjö, Helsingborg, Sollentuna and Nacka. Nooshi Dadgostar always comes into: It must be built rental apartments. In my world, it has to be built. Every home we build helps people find a place to live and somewhere to live. It is neither building in the direction of men's welfare nor simply building rentals that are essential; it is building. The majority of the representatives of my party are very keen to build. Unfortunately, it happens that plans are stopped and that you are not allowed to build on that site. I also know left-wingers who don't like that you build in certain places and stop plans just so you don't build there. I think we should be a little careful when discussing how our municipal representatives are doing. Maybe they don't always do what we think should be the best. But from the point of view of local government, they do what they think is best. It is extremely urgent. We have adopted legislation. Generally speaking, all legislation in this country is in line. That should be a matter of course. But the government has also been incredibly slow. I find that remarkable.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-701	Mr President, I would like to I have to admit, I'm not following you here. Ewa Thalén Finné says that it is perfectly possible to build. Helsingborg is building, and there is a lot of building. My question is precisely about this. Why don't the blue municipalities build for ordinary people? Why, for example, are only fashionable villas built? It does not make sense, as Ewa Thalén says here. How do you want to ensure that the blue municipalities do something today, such as Ekerö and Täby? They say: Stop, we cannot accept new ones coming to Sweden. What does that really mean? Is there anyone else who can move in there? Can an ordinary employee be accepted today? No, probably not if you say stop to everyone. The question is: Is it something that the Moderates do? Now focus on this issue. What does Ewa Thalén Finné do as a spokesperson for the Moderates in order for the moderated municipalities in the Stockholm region to comply with the law and build many more rental apartments, for example? Is Ewa Thalén Finné interested in that? Do the Moderates want to build rental apartments? It's an open question. It doesn't seem like it. It does not seem that Ewa Thalén Finné is interested in it. She just wants to bring her cane horses. That's the most important thing. It's still the government's fault. It's still someone else's fault. It's some sort of regulation. But in Helsingborg it works great. What are you doing? You must stand up for what you are doing here in the Swedish Parliament!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-705	Mr President, I would like to It's very interesting. Why are people not built into ordinary people, and why are they not built in some municipalities? There are quite a lot of common people living in Täby and Ekerö. There aren't just a few other kinds of people living there. There are ordinary people living there. It is ordinary people who pay their homes every day. I'll come to the question Nooshi Dadgostar is on. We know that most of the municipalities that have been assigned refugees today are unable to do so. This is particularly true in metropolitan areas. That is regrettable. It has nothing to do with color. However, some local councillors have been out saying it out loud. What do we need to do? There are several pieces. We could consider whether the Migration Agency could rent out beds, rooms, which are currently being emptied to municipalities that currently have no housing. We must remember that in Stockholm we have the world's longest housing queue. What is also huge is that the regulations that I was on in my correspondence with Johan Löfstrand are broadened. This applies, for example, to a crisis clause in the Planning and Construction Act so that municipalities can build without, for example, a detailed plan, if it is within the master plan, because you have to build. I think everything you build is urgent. Building is urgent. We have a very good dialogue with our municipal councillors.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-710	Mr President! We are today debating housing policy and area 18. This area affects a number of areas of society. These include the labour market, studies, household finances, welfare and the justice system. I was going to focus on the latter, the legal system. In a report, the police have identified 53 vulnerable areas in Sweden where there are many problems. It is, among other things, an open drug trade. You see gang crime. There is a fear from citizens and residents to go to the police and talk to the police about what they have seen happen. There is religious extremism and much more. It is not only the major cities of Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg that have been affected by the vulnerable areas. They are also found in Uppsala, Eskilstuna, Örebro, Växjö, Borlänge and Linköping. The fact that the situation has arisen is due to a great many things. It is an unimpeded immigration. It is an EBO legislation that enables refugees to settle wherever they want in the country as long as they can arrange a home, which has caused overcrowding. Public services are deteriorating, given that the number of people living in residential areas has not been dimensioned when it becomes so crowded. Black contract is another consequence, as well as increased wear and tear on apartments. Neighbors find it difficult to identify who actually lives in their staircase because there are so many. Disturbance is spreading. Yesterday, Ekot reported on the Timss survey at school. It shows that one's own room is a strong contributor to good study results. The design of the million-dollar programmes, which we are talking about in particular when we talk about the 53 vulnerable areas, is a little bit the reason why the police find it so difficult to act there. They are built in such a way that it becomes like a wall against the rest of society. The parking spaces outside the residential areas have been built. Centres, trades and schools are located outside while a green area has been built into the urban area. This makes it difficult for the police to be there and watch because people quickly discover whether or not a person belongs in the area. It's not about people who are there shopping or the like. It has also made it difficult for the police to be present in the areas. You can see quickly when the police arrive, and the retreat routes can easily be blocked. All of us have also observed the problems the police have in the areas in the form of stoning, riots and the like. To remedy this, there would be a need for a break in the number of people applying for asylum in Sweden. EBO legislation needs to be demolished. We need to work preventively in this area. The judiciary and the police need better resources and opportunities to operate in these areas. This is exactly where housing policy comes in. We in the Swedish Democrats have allocated SEK 250 million in a budget within the framework of housing policy within the area of expenditure 18 to enable the municipalities where the affected areas are located to plan the area, so that the municipalities can deal with the problems and enable the police to be present in a safer and better way in these areas. It is important that they can be present there without any major problems. It is about getting the confidence of the citizens and making the citizens feel safe in their housing. It is people who in many sentences are very careful but who have ended up in a difficult situation in these residential areas. A national action plan is needed to identify the areas and to meet the needs of the unsafe areas, increase the perceived security and also the effective security. The more people who dare to go out during the day and in the evening, the fewer crimes can be committed, for more people are out and can observe what is happening. The initiative in the area of housing policy is important in order to address the vulnerable areas and enable the police to be present in a good way. There, housing policy is very important. The municipalities need the opportunity to make these efforts, and so the Swedish Democrats also allocate additional funds to this. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-722	Mr President, I would like to Roger Hedlund said that Sweden has an unbridled immigration. So, over the past year, we have gone through a tremendous tightening up of the examination of asylum seekers, with temporary residence permits. Yet Roger Hedlund says that we now have unbridled immigration. Does this not confirm the image that the Swedish democrats want a not only inhibited but completely halted immigration? The other parties here talk about integrating new Swedes and building housing. We turn around and turn on how to get more housing. We are even talking about beautiful housing. We are talking about creating jobs and making creative proposals on how to find more jobs that may not require such a high level of education but still provide a livelihood. But the Swedish Democrats' response to Syria's war is stopped immigration. Is that right?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-724	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Tuve Skånberg, for your question! You say that the number of asylum seekers has been reduced to Sweden. This has been done very well, but we still see that according to the forecast 30 000 people will arrive in Sweden in 2016. I do not think that is a small number to a country that has received so many for such a long time. Surely there is still an extremely high proportion of people seeking asylum in Sweden. Given that we are going to build 88 000 homes a year until 2020, we cannot continue to enable people to apply for asylum in Sweden. Here, as we Swedish democrats have pointed out many times, we want to help in the immediate areas where resources are far too small. More financial resources are needed in the local areas to create better conditions for those who are not able to come to Sweden. That is where the resources need to be allocated. We can do this in a completely different way if, at the same time, we have restrictive immigration into Sweden. It is in the immediate area we help the most people, not by helping a few in Sweden. In answer to your question: Yes, we need a significant reduction in immigration to Sweden.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-728	Mr President, I would like to In the budget debate that preceded this debate, the Swedish Democrats offered their services to the government in an almost flirtatious way. They said: Here we are, and we can. We have heard this repeated in this debate. Is it not strange, however, that you do not want to integrate, not build housing and not create jobs for the new Swedes, but your answer is that they should be kept outside Sweden, and every new Swede who has come is one too many. 30 000 waiting is 30 000 too much. Is that your only answer when Syria is bleeding and when IS attacks completely defenseless people? It is no wonder that Ebba Busch Thor asked: is it with these Swedish democrats that we are going to negotiate? What do we have in common?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-731	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, we lack the common interest in helping the most people in need of help. There are 65 million refugees in the world, both internally and externally displaced, in need of help. That's where we need money. UNHCR is screaming for money. The refugee camps are screaming for resources. Here you stand and talk about helping a few in Sweden. It doesn't make sense for us to work like that. Tuve Skånberg says that the Swedish Democrats lack integration policy. What I was talking about for six minutes just now was about integration. The opportunity for people to enter Swedish society is not to build in overcrowding in the vulnerable areas, to create the conditions for crime syndicates to work or to scare people not to talk to the police. It is not a good integration policy to have an EBO legislation that allows people to move wherever they want, which means that neighbourhoods become so large that public services are unable to provide them with the conditions they need. These people live crowded. I mentioned this school survey. It shows that one's own room is extremely important for the success of one's studies. That is what is creating good integration policies. It's about enabling people not to live crowded. That is not being done with your policy. Neither the Alliance nor the immigration policy of the red-greens create good conditions for people to be integrated. In that case, care must be taken to help those who have come here and, in the second place, to start thinking about bringing in more. That is the solution to integration policy.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-734	Mr President, I would like to Today, as many have already said, we are debating the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs on urban planning, housing and construction, and consumer policy. Since we have only one representative in committee, I will also talk a little about consumer policy in my speech. I can also note this year that the important efforts made by the Red-Green Government are continuing and that the signal of responsibility is becoming increasingly clear. It is responsible for those who live today and for future generations. Our Minister for the Environment shows that he takes the housing issue and the housing shortage seriously. Our environmentalist consumer minister Per Bolund shows that it is possible and that we are going to switch to more sustainable consumption. Our red-green government, in cooperation with the Left Party on the budget, shows that building housing should pay off and taking responsibility for energy efficiency in those parts of the stock that need it most. It is with pride that I would like to support the proposal contained in the report, except in the part relating to reservation 16. I'm in favour of reservation 16. Mr President, I would like to One of the reasons why I ran for Parliament a number of years ago was that, as I said at the time, I wanted to create a sustainable building and housing policy. What did I mean by that? Above all, there are three things. It is a question of remedying the housing shortage. It is about ensuring that what we build is as good as possible for people, climate and the environment. And it is about our existing stock being upgraded and thus making a smaller climate footprint. At the time, the issue of housing was not particularly heated in the national debate. It is today. I think that's good. But the reason is not that we are debating how good housing we are going to build, but that it is about those who have nowhere to live. Eyes forward, I think. More is being built now than in a very long time. It also means that more people will have a home. Overcoming the housing shortage is not something that is done overnight. Nothing is done alone by a government. It is something that is being done around our country. This is something that is being done by our municipalities. The fact that so much is being built as it is today is due to the fact that our municipalities have finally started to build. It is built in large municipalities, and it is built in the small ones. Villas, terraced houses, flats and flats are being built. But the important thing is that it should be built mixed, because that's when we create housing. We can't just build a type of housing. We have to build them all. Not everyone can afford to ask for what is being built. It's built almost everywhere. Those who do not choose to build actually choose not to take their responsibilities. I think they should reconsider and think right. It is together that we can remedy the housing shortage. Therefore, the government chooses to support and actually peppy, I would say, those who choose to build and who assume their responsibilities, so that they build even more. I think that's good. Mr President, I would like to It's amazing. More people will get a home, and more students will get somewhere to stay. However, I see a challenge. This is a challenge which, as housing increases, is also becoming bigger. What is being built today will be well-functioning even in 50 and 100 years. Building a house is both resource-demanding and something that makes a clear climate footprint. It is therefore important that what we are building today is good for people who are going to live there but also that it will be good from environmental and climate considerations. It is a two-part challenge. It's about successfully building good housing for people to live in – people with lower incomes should also be able to afford to demand these homes. And it's about reducing the climate impact of the construction process. In order to be able to build good housing and at the same time reduce the cost of housing, we need to challenge and think new. I'm sure it can be done. Yesterday I was extremely inspired by Gabriel Wikström's speech at the Architecture Gala. There he talked about the role of the architect and that the architect's knowledge needs to be better used. I, as a construction engineer, can only agree. We need to do this together. I am convinced that with smart architecture we can build better homes and create lower housing costs. But then we must dare to think outside the box and challenge the thought. Maybe we shouldn't keep building and living like we've always done. There is certainly a need for a great deal of changes to the current regulatory framework. What is no better than that the government is just proposing an increase in funding for a thorough review of construction and construction regulations. How, then, are we to reduce the climate impact of what is being built today? There's a lot of knowledge around the country. There is knowledge about better building methods, better material selection and better construction processes. What is needed is to gather this knowledge. Of course, the government has also thought about this and is therefore investing in an information centre for sustainable construction. This is done just to gather and disseminate this knowledge, so that more people can benefit from it. Knowledge is one of the few things that only get bigger when they are shared. In the area of consumer policy, I would particularly like to highlight an effort that is being made and that will make a difference for people in their daily lives. For me as an environmental party, it is important that it should be easy for consumers to do the right thing. It shouldn't take a lot of extra time to find the best options. Therefore, the government chooses to invest a great deal in eco-labelling of products. It will be easier for consumers to do the right thing. We also need to develop how we label our products.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-749	Mr President, I would like to Emma Hult is from Jönköping. Jönköping receives SEK 32 million. In particular, Emma has made sure to go around and congratulate the Members of the relevant parties here on this page. Of course, if you ask the local councillor the question, they say: Yes, of course we are happy. We're happy for all the money we can get. At the same time, however, it is very clear how problematic it is with this type of temporary grant. You don't know what to use the 32 million for. It is not foreseeable whether that money will come to an end next year. It's like a Christmas present that might break before New Year's Eve. The rules may be changed, so that those people who were supposed to be hired and who could make a difference in the business cannot be hired. This may have to be paid for in the operating budget next year, next year, next year, next year and next year again. It is also difficult to obtain the necessary skills. Of course, it depends on what you intend to do. You can do anything with this money. Jönköping made a positive result in 2015 with SEK 132 million. The cut for the last ten years is 170 million, with positive results. It is a municipality that grows with 1 000 people per year and has 134 000 inhabitants and builds 736 dwellings. There are all the conditions for expanding and growing without temporary support. It can be added that Jönköping Municipality is governed by four alliance parties and is currently led by a KSO from the Center Party, without any interference by anti-constructive environmental parties. You can do this anyway. My question to Emma Hult is the same as the question to Johan Löfstrand: What will the municipality actually use this temporary money for?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-754	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by contesting that there would be anti-constructive environmental parties in Jönköping. During the last term of office and the previous term of office, we sat and ruled together in Jönköping. The chairman of the municipal housing company was an environmental party. The attitude from Olas's side I find very boring. He knows very well that I have a good cooperation with both Ann-Marie-Marie and Anders and have had it when we worked together during the previous term of office. I find this attitude a bit boring, because I am convinced that together in the country we should build this. It is not the Alliance or the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. I think we should do it together. That's what we're seeing, too. Helsingborg was mentioned earlier. In Helsingborg it is built. There's the Green Party together with the Alliance. I find it a bit boring to say that we are anti-constructive. But I'm going to go over to your question: What is the money to be used for? I can quote the moderate municipal councillor, who is responsible for the matter in Jönköping. She said: It's almost like you want a little party. My first thought was: Is Jönköping not allowed any more? The problem is seen when compared to other cities of the same size. Jönköping does not get as much as the other cities, because Jönköping does not build enough. The housing shortage is large in Jönköping, and Jönköping needs to build more. I'm completely surprised that Jönköping knows what you need to use this money for, and I also think they will come in handy. I hope that the money will be used and even more built next year and can get an even larger amount at next year's distribution of the reger- nobody's building bonus.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-761	Mr President, I would like to That's right! You can have a party! I was just going to suggest putting up a statue of gold over Emma Hult or any other former council chairman. But of course you can have a party for this temporary money and spend it right away so you don't have to think about it in next year's budget. It is this type of party money that I am trying to problematise, namely those that make it absolutely impossible to predict what is going on next year and to budget long-term for a functioning business model es. The Center Party dislikes one thing, and it is targeted state subsidies that are not free for municipalities to use as they wish. But what we find even worse about are targeted grants which, moreover, such as this, are temporary, precisely because they cannot permanently finance the necessary activities and because they are particularly difficult for small and resource-efficient municipalities to apply for and take part in. What I think you see when you quickly read through this list is that it is the large, expansive municipalities that make surpluses year after year and also deliver housing that receives the money, not those that might need it because their housing building needs to be developed and improved and where you may even find it difficult to get finances in their housing building. The alternative is to do as the Center Party does in our budget New leadership for Sweden: to redo as many as possible of the destined contributions to general state grants that are sustainable and that can be used for real in municipal operations, not least to reward housing and create good and positive living environments. Therefore, in our budget, we increase the general contributions by 10 billion to the level of 50 billion per year to all Swedish municipalities. It is in no way sprinkled with money without a sustainable and long-term financing of ordinary and important municipal activities.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-767	Mr President, I would like to The municipality of Aneby in my home county is not a municipality that is wealthy in the way that Ola Johansson just described. I think Aneby Municipality is very happy for the addition you get in the municipal bonus and that might actually generate a new employee or that more housing is being built. What Ola Johansson forgets is that the money comes not only because it builds more but also because it has taken responsibility in the migration wave that we saw last year. The municipalities that chose to take responsibility and receive many new arrivals also receive support from the government through this money. It's a parameter in what you figure out, and I think it's very important. There we see many small municipalities, where Aneby is one, who took responsibility during the last autumn. Now they get a pep talk and can continue. I think it's important. I think it's funny that Ola Johansson is standing here raking and mentioning a gold statue. Should there be a statue, it would definitely not be in gold; then it should be made of wood. Ola Johansson himself must understand that. Gold is a material that takes a lot of energy to make. Wood is Småland. It would be great to have a wooden statue, but I would never have thought that one would be built. It becomes so ridiculous in the debate when Ola Johansson does not understand that there are municipalities that need this support. I look forward to seeing the work that they are now going to do, and if they succeed in that work they can get even more money next year. Ola Johansson talks about targeted money. But they're not earmarked. The municipality can choose what the money is needed for. That's the thing. So I'm a little surprised and think it's a bit boring with the attitude that we're anti-constructive and that Ola Johansson then rages over us spending the money on a statue. The money should be used where it is most needed, and I am absolutely convinced that our municipal representatives will sort it out in the absolute best way.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-773	Mr President, I would like to Stone throwing against policemen and obstruction of fire trucks that struggle to get to burning houses and cars – in Sweden there are vulnerable areas where residents no longer feel safe and where blue light personnel are unable to do their job. It is just one example of how in our social planning we have long failed to do something that should be fundamental wherever people want to live and feel at home. There are, of course, reasons for the damage, violence, the theft and other gang-related crime we see and hear about. Outsidership is not a coincidence but arises from a situation where there is no better alternative, where violence is glorified and income from crime is as good as anyone else. In a report, the police point out 15 places in Sweden that are particularly vulnerable. In these geographically defined areas a permanent presence of police is required. There is a need for interaction between different parts of society, which has been happening for a long time, but often it has not proved to be a good enough result. On the contrary, many initiatives have been as effective as undemanding. Of these areas, 14 out of 15 are in municipalities governed by the Social Democrats in one constellation or another. As has been shown here, we in the Center Party have no over-belief in targeted subsidies, and we say no to subsidies. M en in these cases – aimed at areas such as Vivalla in Örebro, Ronna in Södertälje, Rinkeby in Stockholm and Biskopsgården in Gothenburg – in our draft budget we have allocated SEK 70 million extra to be earmarked for what we call safe urban planning. With this money, we want to give municipalities the opportunity to take physical measures that make crime more difficult and prevent insecurity. These may include sight lines through farms, enlightenment of specific areas, cutting of shrubs and shielding or superstructureing of the bridges and passageways that can be used to attack ambulance personnel who are inside and doing their job. It could be a matter of renovating or building new roads and paths where people can stay and move or those that, if necessary, can be used as an escape route for police officers if they lose control. As the sum is limited to these 15 areas and is directed specifically at physical measures, the money will be able to go further and much more than the government's scattered funds. This is not about comfort measures, but about things that make a difference in reality for people who are happy and want to stay but who also want to see a future in safety without crime. Mr President, I would like to I will begin the speech as there is a crucial difference in how the Center Party views the needs of old residential areas compared with the government and other parties. Another way to lift these areas is through renovation, demolition and new building, increased mobility and access to more forms of leasing, perhaps even the possibility of owning a home. It is also about new investments. For this we need reforms in renting, housing savings for young people, changes in moving taxes and, of course, further simplifications that make it easier for municipalities and construction companies to transform an idea more quickly into ready-made housing that people can afford and enjoy – a base for education, going to work and participating in leisure activities. Time does not allow a full declaration of programme by the Center Party, and luck may be. In this report, we have, in addition to our own budgetary framework, which we highlight in the specific opinion, some motions with proposals which I intend to mention now. Several parts of the alliance see Lantmäteriet as one of the brake blocks. Property formation is crucial for the creation of housing, companies and infrastructure, pipelines and roads. We expect nothing but that Lantmäteriet is working on the changes needed to deal with long processing times. I support the joint reservation 11 by the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats. I also support the joint reservation 12 on the revision of the system of municipal rent guarantees. It is important to have opportunities for households who have a fixed income but who, for example, are not given the opportunity to rent a dwelling to get a first-hand contract. However, this system is grossly overfunded. Of the EUR 43 million allocated, 42 million were not used, and only 110 guarantees were issued in 14 out of 290 municipalities in 2015. The system is not designed in such a way as to make it useful, i.e. to create lower thresholds into the housing market. So this should be reviewed so that more people have the opportunity to come in. Radon causes 500 cancer cases annually in Sweden. The Radiation Safety Authority estimates that 325 000 homes have radon concentrations exceeding 200 becquerel per cubic metre. In addition, one of the milestones in the environmental objective "Good built-up environment" requires that these levels be brought down. For time winning, I do not insist on this, but it is included as one of the Center Party's reservations. Then there is the noise issue, which Ewa Thalén Thalén raised. Of course, it is gratifying that we are once again given the opportunity to make an announcement to the government. What surprises us is that the government does not take up the issue and put forward the proposal that the Alliance Government sent out for a referral. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs new leadership. Sweden is in a boom where there should be more jobs, employment should increase and division into society should decrease. There is no need for more sprinkle money in Sweden's budget, but for funding of investments in jobs, entrepreneurship and sustainability. I have hardly mentioned consumer policy. We have a proposal for a consumer policy objective in a joint reservation by the Alliance, reservation No 4, which I call for.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-790	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is one of the parties in the Swedish Parliament that most clearly wants to continue the Alliance's tax sink trend. In the Center Party's budget bill, it is clear that tax revenues would be reduced by over 20 billion if the Center Party were to decide. That may sound good in the ears of an alliance representative. Let us take a look at the Centre Party's spending motion for Category 18. It is easy in theory to delete some budget lines, and then go plus and minus together. What do the ironings mean? Ola Johansson has, in the House today and on many other occasions in particular, turned out that it is important to simplify the rules, that the government takes responsibility for bringing forward new proposals, sustainable construction and so on. Under grant 1:4 the Center Party wants to save. The party does not want a competence bet on the new PBL. Obviously, it is not important for municipal representatives to know how PBL works so that it becomes an effective administration. It calls for a rejection of the government's efforts to review the BBR. I thought it was one of the basic foundations for more efficient and cheaper construction. Finally, the Center Party is calling for a rejection of the commitment to sustainable construction. My question is...
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-795	Mr President, I would like to I think I can guess the question. I'll try to answer the question. At the end of my speech, which I did not have time to mention, it was my intention to say that we are in a boom in Sweden. The government does not really take the responsibility that could be done in a boom, but continues to sprinkle money. The Swedish National Audit Office has also criticised this. The Center Party puts a credit in having a prudent budget when it goes well for Sweden. This means that we will ensure good economic development in the country in the long term. This is one of the major general budget discussions that took place a few weeks ago. Perhaps we should not repeat it, but there are great differences in how the Center Party views this. Housing construction is an area, which we have been to before. We do not believe in this kind of billion-dollar investment in temporary building aid to municipalities or in temporary subsidies to construction companies – who do not even ask for it. The Centre Party's big savings compared to the government's budget are that we say no to 5.2 billion, which we believe is of no use. I think I have described this in a good way in my speeches. There are a number of other areas where we can be accused of tax cuts, but it is also a matter of ensuring that the white sector in the construction sector is maintained. There has been a lot of discussion throughout the morning about the terms and conditions of public procurement. The best thing you can do to create undeclared work and unfair working conditions in the labour market is to remove ROT and RUT deductions as the government does. We want to restore the ROT deduction, and we want to develop the RUT deduction. It is a policy that the government is not in on at all. Then there was the question of how Boverket uses its money. I am absolutely convinced that Boverket can be financed with existing funds. I mentioned one example, namely that EUR 42 million is paid back from EUR 43 million in rent guarantee grants. The money is important, but it's paid back.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-801	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson and the Center Party will have all the credit for restoring the ROT deduction in the budget bill. None of the other alliance parties can even stand it, but they have high tails. The Center Party should pay great tribute to this, although I do not share the view that the consequences have been particularly great in the housing market. Let us look again at the appropriations. There are many center party councillors who think that the building bonus was a really good bet. It has fallen down some money in the municipalities' pockets. But we don't need to talk about billions of dollars. That's where I know we're different. Basically, it is about the small things that are clearly written out in the Centre Party's spending bill. One does not think that there should be a review of the BBR, that is to say that we should not analyse whether we should change the noise rules. That's exactly what the investigation is going to do. We should not be working on sustainable construction issues, that is, the Center Party does not want the government to spend money on creating sustainable construction. The Center Party obviously also does not want Boverket to spend money to raise skills in the municipal sector in order to achieve more efficient and better PBL management. Finally, Ola Johansson mentioned in her speech the challenges facing Lantmäteriet. The Center Party's budget exercise shows that it withdraws SEK 34 1⁄2 million from Lantmäteriet. How will it help Lantmäteriet to do its job? As a small business party, one can surely think that a free national basic data base, to which the money is to be allocated, is good for both rural areas and small businesses' ability to grow.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-805	Mr President, I would like to Here came some concrete pucks. I am pleased that it was precisely the noise that Johan Löfstrand took as an example of a mission that Boverket should do. There I immediately see a saving. The work on noise benchmarks has already been carried out by the previous government, but the current government is sitting on its hands and does not want to introduce the noise design that is already ready and ready to be presented. If the government wants to spend money on noise, let it shout about them, but rather deliver the policies that exist and are investigated. Then there was the question of sustainable construction. The Center Party proposes an investment in a national energy efficiency centre, but we believe that there are funds within Boverket's budget to manage the business. We think it is important for this issue to be addressed. As has been discussed before, the issue of near-zero energy buildings is something that the government is slow to do. I hope that the Minister for Housing's promise will be fulfilled so that we will have guidelines or regulations for this by Christmas at the latest. Then there's something sensible to work with. In the individual motion I have supported, it is clear that Lantmäteriet is an activity that we think needs to be reviewed, perhaps we should even privatise parts of the business. There are incredible bottlenecks. It may not necessarily be because Lantmäteriet is such an excellent authority with the only problem that it is underfunded. This may also be because the way in which you work is not efficient enough and you do not deliver because there are no alternatives for the municipalities. The development of the local government sector speaks a little against Johan Löfstrand's and Emma Hult's arguments about these excellent municipalities to which bonuses are to be awarded. This is clear proof that the municipalities are good at building.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-809	Mr President, I would like to It's fun to listen to Ola Johansson. It is. The Center Party is probably Parliament's most out-of-date housing party. It holds on to the old which even the other bourgeois parties have abandoned and run from a long time ago. I think that honor Ola Johansson. We have heard here that Ola Johansson hates skills. He doesn't want any skills development. He hates sustainable construction. He also hates Lantmäteriet. He wants to cut back on all these activities. He also hates targeted state subsidies but suggests a number in the speaker's chair. I think that's a very interesting combination. Ola Johansson's own home municipality has now received some of the building bonuses that he has devoted all day to violent criticism. Ola Johansson believes that this is temporary aid. It certainly is not. It is only in case the worst happens, that is to say that Ola Johansson comes to power, as there is temporary support. But now it's not at all. We will have long-term, powerful investments to build society and build many more homes. That's it. My question is: Will Ola Johansson work for and ensure that Kungsbacka Municipality does not receive these 15 million? That's the proposal, isn't it? Now stand up for your politics, Ola Johansson! Reject the SEK 15 million to Kungsbacka Municipality!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-813	Mr President, I would like to Yes, SEK 15 million goes to Kungsbacka. I myself have been in charge of that municipality as municipal councillor. This was part of the fact that the municipal management was hanged out in the press because they made large surpluses in municipal operations, given the great needs that existed at the time. The expected surplus for 201 6 is only 94 million, which is smaller than it usually is in a municipality that has the habit of growing, which does so in a sustainable way and which also has good conditions due to its geographical location near a metropolitan region. It is also a neighbour of Gothenburg, which is a left-hand municipality whose residential building has collapsed completely. This means that the crane municipalities, often led by alliance parties, have the privilege of being allowed to build many homes. This will be rewarded extra with SEK 15 million, which I claim is a temporary contribution. All kinds of subsidies that depend on the goodwill and whimsicalness of the present political majority, I regard as temporary money that can be arranged for. If you don't build a wooden statue, you can party up the money. This is not money that the municipality has asked for, but it is money that the municipality naturally receives because it exists. In the case of the targeted grant, the targeted aid, there are 15 vulnerable areas. I think I devoted a rather good part of my speech – which made me unable to talk about other things– to describing the situation in these and the concrete measures needed to create security, not least for the people who live there but also for the people who have their job to be there. It would be strange if Nooshi Dadgostar thought it was problematic support. I think we can agree that this is important. As far as the competence of municipalities is concerned, I am convinced that it exists. What we do not give the municipalities are prerequisites for using this competence, as the government parties, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, say no to simplifying the adoption of detailed plans.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-818	Mr President, I would like to I didn't hear an answer from Ola Johansson. Will he work to prevent this money from being received? It is certainly not an aid that is given because it is allocated. This has been applied for. What is Ola Johansson's problem is that his own municipal politicians do not believe in his politics. Apparently, they love the new policy. They're even looking for the support. What's going on? Ola Johansson tries and tries. Even his own comrades don't bring him along, but it's brave. I don't understand. Of course it can be long-term support. All the decisions we make in the Riksdag are taken every year after. I regret that Ola Johansson is in favour of what I have heard him say here: life-time budget. Is it a one-party state Ola Johansson wants? It's unclear what he means. It is clear that we have to decide on the budget every year. Our focus is that it should be clear, strong support that ensures that we build many housing in the future. I note that Ola Johansson takes the cake, eats it and has it left. It's as simple as that. You take the money in the support that exists but stand here in Parliament and speak is ideology and so on. That won't hold, Ola Johansson. Ola Johansson asks if we should have targeted support for security creation in the suburbs or whatever it may be. The big problem, Ola Johansson, is that you want to double the rents of the people who currently live in the suburbs. You want market rents, which means that twice as much money will go straight into the hands of the property owners who own our rental apartments in Sweden today. It will make people much poorer. This is what you need to answer.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-824	Mr President, I would like to Those weren't bad questions. If we were to discuss leasing policy, we would need another six-minute speech. It is clear that there are too little rentals being built. Nooshi Dadgostar and I can agree on that. But the reason is not that there is no support or grants or such things, but because there are no conditions for building rental apartments. Many construction companies choose instead to build residential apartments. You even choose to convert rental apartments into residential apartments – in those areas where there is a high demand for owned housing, should be added. That is why we see the possibilities in these areas, where we see segregation but also that people have the will and desire to stay and make a career in housing, allowing the companies that lease rentals also to have ownership apartments in their portfolio. This means that you can stay but at the same time own a dwelling. It is important, and it is a pity that the Left Party does not see ownership as an opportunity for people to have a good place to live while staying. There's a lot to talk about here. What do I say to the municipalities - don't search? No, no. It's a lot for Christmas. We can arrange parties, like Emma Hult was inside, or build statues – or bake a cake. Making a marzipan rice doesn't mean you don't eat it. You take part of what's there. What I promise Nooshi Dadgostar to do is to work towards this type of temporary building support and subsidies ending as 2018 we will get a housing minister from the Alliance.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-829	Mr President, I would like to A home is the basis for a good life. Bad housing or lack of housing has social consequences for all of us – for pupils and students' opportunities to fix the school, for health care, for people's health, for women who want to escape a violent man. We are all concerned by the social right of the home, and we depend on everyone else having good housing. Therefore, housing is a social responsibility – our shared responsibility. We have written that into the Swedish Constitution. Housing needs to be built that most people can afford. It's not done today. We're gonna change that. Construction cannot be just a cash cow for individual limited liability companies or up to certain market forces to solve. Housing construction must primarily meet social requirements for ordinary employees – waitresses, child care workers, sheet metal workers, hairdressers, you name it – to be able to live in good housing at reasonable cost. There needs to be a political and civic line and vision for how our cities should develop, what they should look like, how we should interact with each other in the collective resource that our country is. Mr President, I would like to We have seen what fixation on market solutions has led to in the residential area. In the years of bourgeois government, society retreated completely. Public utility was sold out. Investment in residential building was strangled. Homeless people had to pay tax reductions for more wealthy people. The result is today: housing shortages, large segregation, growing social differences in housing and families with children queuing outside the City Mission. The winners of bourgeois politics today are those in multimillion villas. Several of them have made big profits – don't forget that – many even on the housing policy initiatives we made in the 60s and 70s. They also receive renovations paid by the tax collective. The property tax is barely there. So who's paying for this? Yeah, they're the ones who don't have a place to live. They are forced to debt themselves to their teeth, live in windowless cellars and pay high new production and second-hand rents, at the price of great financial vulnerability and stress and in every waking second looking for a better alternative. How did this happen? Danderyds- and Ekerömviljonärer get subsidies to live, while the homeless have to pay for the party. Overcrowding is increasing in some areas, while in the rich districts they live very spaciously today. Today we have an entire generation that has made private money on major social initiatives that we have made in Sweden a long time ago, on villas and condos. I am absolutely sure that we can continue to meet the objective of good housing and living conditions for all in the future. But that means we're helping each other. We need to be prepared to tax those who, for example, earned a lot from the old housing policy and thus redistribute to those who are currently outside the housing market. It's called solidarity. It is not good enough that politicians sit with their arms crossed when so many stand without a home. We need solid, long-term housing policy support to build a new modern housing project: 700 000 homes by 2025. I am therefore pleased that the Left Party has achieved what will be most important in the future: the introduction of preferential government loans for the construction of rental rights. This is an important breakthrough in Swedish politics. This effort will provide hundreds of thousands more rentals at reasonable cost. It is an important step towards greater public responsibility for building. In addition to this, the government and the Left Party are also introducing investment aid which constitutes the largest political investment in housing construction that has been undertaken in 20 years. Also there are rentals for reasonable rents in focus. I am also pleased that the Left Party has made a commitment to research into social housing policy. If we look through the movements of the bourgeois parties, we see that the whole of this venture is gone. It is replaced by a big, fat zero – nothing. The bourgeois parties, my friends, have a housing policy without housing! We have bourgeois Members in this House who are passionate about doing absolutely nothing. This is the difference between right and left. They stand and rammer in the same old track: impair quality, build more expensive, sell out municipal rentals, worsen, complicate, build only for high-income earners. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would also like to address the 3 million tenants who are in Sweden and all those who will want to live in a rental apartment at some point. All bourgeois parties in Parliament today want to introduce market rents. It wasn't like that before, but that's how it is now. If you today have a rent of SEK 6,000 a month, for example, you would receive a rent of perhaps SEK 12,000 a month at a bourgeois election victory. Think about what it means to you and your family! While the Left Party is making an effort to build for ordinary wallets, this year the bourgeois parties are proposing to rent the market for Swedish tenants. There is also the difference between the right and left in housing policy. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-846	Mr President, I would like to For the same reason that I requested a reply to the Swedish Democrats, who have an extreme view, I have to ask for a reply to Nooshi Dadgostar when it comes to an extreme view. I heard her say, in the collective resource of our country. I know this is the case, but my rhetorical question is: Is it really the Left Party's view that our country is a Furthermore, she said that everyone has the right to live well. This obviously applies regardless of the economy and what you work with. Is it not true that we all have to work to create our future and prosperity? Me, my children and my neighbors have been lent. It's called Nooshi Dadgostar because homeless people pay for the party. Yes, we were homeless before we bought our apartment or eventually could afford to buy a villa. It has been burdensome, but we have not come to the housing market and said: We have the right to live regardless of the economy we have or do not have. ..................................................... Then she says that the bourgeois, whom she calls the Alliance, do absolutely nothing. It's actually a little hair-traveling, when we have Stefan Attefall's legacy to manage. He and others before him have worked for a long time to get more housing at reasonable prices. Instead, we are accused of impairing quality and only of building for high income earners. Does Nooshi Dadgostar want to be taken seriously, or is it just the May Day demonstration?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-851	Mr President, I would like to Tuve Skånberg raises a large number of questions, so I will try to find out what it is about. So Tuve Skånberg does not think that people have the right to good housing; that is how I perceive the Christian Democrats. If so, it is a rather serious position. We have written in the Swedish Constitution that the public should ensure everyone's right to housing. Do the bourgeois parties not believe this? Is this the problem: that you do not think that politics should secure what the Constitution says, namely that everyone should have a good place to live and live in and that the children who grow up in Sweden should have the right to a place where they can read their homework? Should not all families with children be allowed to grow up, not queued outside the City Mission, but in a good accommodation at a cost that does not ruin them? I understand that Tuve Skånberg is taking a step back and saying that we should not interfere with this; it must be clear to individuals. It was hard to understand what you meant. Are you saying that we should not have a housing policy in Sweden without having to fight for ourselves and see if there is any housing on the plain where you can step in and see what it looks like? This is completely unserious, Tuve Skånberg. We must have a housing policy; we must organise this. We all live here together, collectively – right? We must have a housing policy that means building for the people who live here in Sweden, and that is not being done today. It's built only for high-income earners. It's built way too expensive. What is Tuve Skånberg's answer to that? How are we going to build for ordinary employees in Sweden? You're saying no to all those bets.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-855	Mr President, I would like to Well, of course the Christian Democrats and the Alliance want to build for everyone, of course. But, Nooshi Dadgostar, it was precisely in the collective resource of our country that I got caught up in. Is it the view of the Left Party that the country is a collective resource, that everyone has the right to his share of the cake and that we should divide it up in an almost communist way? It reminds me of Fidel Castro and his way of dividing Cuba. Are we Cuba or are we Sweden? Isn't it everyone's responsibility to build prosperity? Don't we all have a responsibility to seek the good housing as well? Anyone who then fails should of course have our support, and we should have a reasonable housing policy. An entire generation, both now and before, has seen it as normal to contribute to their housing, to go into debt and perhaps for a long amortisation period – perhaps a whole life – to try to pay back. Rather than building welfare, would it be an extremely negative thing? For many of us, mortgages are the only way to create good housing. Nooshi Dadgostar says in old left-wing manners that we should just take it for granted. It is something that belongs to a collective resource. Come on, let's get some housing!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-858	Mr President, I would like to I'm not sure what Tuve Skånberg means. We all have a responsibility to seek the good housing. How to apply for this if there are no tools and policies for us to build housing together? Should each individual seek this in his spiritual self? It is difficult to keep up with what the Christian Democrats really want in housing policy. Do you want to build houses? Or are you trying to explain to me, Tuve Skånberg, what mortgages are on the market? No one's ever discussed it. It's a little hard to keep up with. Of course we all live here. We are citizens of this country. Then we need to work together. What I am saying is about statistics. The statistics show that those who own very expensive villas in Sweden today have it very safe and good. They have enjoyed the fruits of the very heavy tax cuts that you have implemented. For many of them inflation has devoured almost the entire mortgage, and now they can live pretty well. Why is it fair that we do not help each other so that the young generation that is having a difficult time at first will be helped by those who sit safely in their villas? I find that difficult to understand at all. I do not understand why the Christian Democrats would be against cooperation. Everyone's on their own here. The rich and the poor are left alone. It can't be the Christian Democrats' policy, can it?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-862	Mr President, I would like to It is very fascinating to listen to Nooshi Dadgostar. You might think you're in a war situation or something. You speak a little like a sun-and-springer, Nooshi Dadgostar. You are prepared to tell me anything to convince the opponent or the 3 million tenants that what you say is right. I can certainly recommend reading what the bourgeois parties write about, for example, rental systems. There is no party proposing market rents, as you claim. Look at this instead. I have a specific question for you that I'm looking for answers to. You talk a lot about how rich municipalities like Danderyd, Täby and so on are so incredibly bad and segregated. I would like a comment from Nooshi Dadgostar on why Södermalm happens to be the most segregated district in Stockholm and has the least proportion of people born abroad. I would also like a comment on why Majorna in Gothenburg also happens to be one of the most segregated districts in Gothenburg, that is to say, has the least proportion of people born abroad. Why is Södermalm the most segregated district in Stockholm? I want answers to that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-867	Mr President, I would like to For example, in a motion written by the Center Party, it says: We want to move to a more market-based leasing. How does Robert Hannah perceive those words? It is therefore something that is very different from market rents. Liberals have the same wording in their movements. People can read the motions that the bourgeois parties individually and jointly have raised. In addition, there is a large number of bourgeois politicians in here who put forward proposals that involve market rents in the midst of a shortage situation. In practice, this means that people will get double rent. How are you gonna handle it? You're going to have millions of people curling outside the social services. How are you gonna handle it? This is de facto. To be honest, I don't understand how it all goes together. I must absolutely agree that the transformations that have taken place at Södermalm have led to a strong segregation. It does not necessarily mean segregation of ethnicity. But we have a very strong segregation in terms of income because we have areas where there are only very expensive housing. Then there are other areas where there are less expensive housing. Market rents are a perfect way to strengthen this division, don't you think? There is already a big difference between the rents between the inner city and the extremity. But in order for us to have an inclusive building, we need to build easily accessible and good rental properties, for example on Södermalm. But you say no to that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-872	Mr President, I would like to I can answer why Södermalm is the most segregated district in Stockholm. This is because people who have rental contracts there sit with them forever, 30 - 40 years. I would say that today there is not a single 90-talist who has received a white rental contract primarily on Södermalm, for the simple reason that the people who live there live there for a very long time. And the people who get the contracts that become available have been on the housing queue for 30 - 40 years. It is the simple answer to why new Swedes and people who have not been on the housing queue for 30 to 40 years live in Rinkeby and why people who have first-hand contracts live in the city. Östermalm is a typical neighbourhood that does not actually have problems with segregation based on people with foreign background. A lot of people who make a housing career manage to buy housing there and come in, for example, in this way. We must broaden the one-eyed approach to which parts of Sweden are segregated. Södermalm is one of the most segregated places in Stockholm. Södermalm also happens to be a very strong left-wing stronghold. In Majorna in Gothenburg, the Left Party even has its premises. It may say a lot about what you think about segregation and how unsolicited it is. When it comes to market rents or not, alliance parties write about more market-based leasing. There are two other organisations that share a similar view on these issues of market-based leasing. The Tenants' Association also believes that it should be a more market-based rental arrangement, i.e. that the value for tenants of housing should be higher in central districts compared to other parts of the city. It is also market-based thinking. So do Real Estate owners. When Nooshi Dadgostar paints this like people being forced out of houses and homes, it's a little bit of a lie. For example, what Liberals think about existing stocks is that rents should increase more in central locations than in non-central locations. That's not in any way what you, Nooshi Dadgostar, are trying to market a little bit like a sun-and-spring. That is not true at all.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-879	Mr President, I would like to This distinguishes 60 percent between the rents in the inner city and the rents in the outermost part. How much more do you mean, Robert Hannah, that's the difference? We have already seen a study showing what it means, for example, in the Stockholm region. A year ago, this market-based leasing system in my municipality Botkyrka would mean 70% rent increases for those living there. I think you should be honest. Liberals will go out to Botkyrka and tell tenants that you think they should pay 70% more rent than they do now. What do you think that society looks like? Why do you want to make people so poor? Why do you want people to be poor beneficiaries? That's your policy, isn't it? I find this extremely difficult to understand. But maybe you should get used to it now. There should be no collective agreements, there should be statutory minimum wages of about 8 000 SEK per month and there should be huge rent increases. Don't you want people to be able to live here in Sweden? You really have to ask that. There's no margin left here. It's extremely hard to keep up. You mean that these are not market rents. That's the word you're sensitive to. But in practice, it's the same thing. And you all agree. It is very unpleasant for the next election campaign that you all agree that there will be market rents. A vote for one of the bourgeois parties in 2018 is thus a vote for double rent. This is what we have to discuss in the electoral movement, which are in favour and which are against. But then I am definitely in favour of building more rental apartments in the inner city. It will also be built at Östermalm, although Robert Hannah seems to think it is a parade example of how it should work.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-886	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's finances are well. With nine years of the economic policy of the Liberals and the Alliance Government in our backs, we are now in a boom. Instead of using the boom to build a buffer for worse times, however, the Red-Green Government chooses to borrow money, present unfunded premium increases, and provide ineffectual housing-building subsidies. What Sweden needs today is the economic policy of the Liberals, where education is rewarded, where subsidies are paid to families with children and pensioners instead of to construction companies, where it is always profitable to go from subsidies to jobs and where disabled people are not put to the potter's edge by, for example, removing their support in the form of personal assistance. After two years of red-green government power, it is clear that we in Sweden are on the wrong path. Although much more is being built than in a long time, we are far from achieving the 700 000 homes that need to be built by 2025, and the government is far from putting a roof over the heads of all asylum seekers who have been granted a residence permit in S verige. In fact, when Mehmet Kaplan left his post as Minister of Housing, there were no proposals whatsoever for capping the heads of new arrivals or any reforms whatsoever, despite the fact that the alliance parties had long demanded some kind of crisis legislation in this area. I can guarantee that it is in no way the red-green housing policy that has led to the increase in production that we are seeing today. Mehmet Kaplan and Peter Eriksson have so far only contributed four things to Swedish housing policy. Firstly, minor regulatory simplifications have been created, which the Green Party voted against when the Alliance was in power but has now changed its mind. Secondly, they have created fluffy housing councils with a focus on sustainability that will not provide a single home to Sweden. Thirdly, misdirected subsidies have been introduced for wealthy construction companies. Fourthly, and most of all, we see scandal headlines and associations with anything other than construction companies and property owners. You can't solve the housing crisis with that, I can tell you. Liberals are mainly critical of the government continuing to pursue a policy aimed at subsidising more housing. It is a policy that is fundamentally wrong-thinking, and there is no research evidence whatsoever for it. These subsidies distort competition, and the funds go predominantly to housing, which will nevertheless be built. On every visit I have made to various construction companies and in different cities in recent months, I have had to confirm that the housing that is now receiving subsidies was already planned. They have been planned for a long time and would still be built. It is therefore remarkable that the government continues to pursue this subsidy policy, despite the fact that the construction and real estate sector's own trade associations are critical of government building subsidies. These subsidies have not contributed to anything, and the Liberals therefore say no to them. Instead, we in the Liberals are investing money in raising housing allowances significantly more than the government proposes – up to SEK 4 billion by 2019. We are spending this money particularly on pensioners with guaranteed income and on families with multiple children. While the government is thus subsidising economically strong construction companies that do not want the funds, Liberals' economic policy provides financial support for weak individuals who need housing supplements and housing allowances to make the housing calculation go together. There, then, solidarity can be compared – the red-greens have solidarity with developers who do not want it, and the Liberals have solidarity with those people who actually need housing allowances and housing allowances. The Liberals also say no to the Government's proposal to build a special state information centre for sustainable construction. We believe that the Green Party is actually paying for its own coffee clubs; taxpayers should not. Instead, the Liberals say yes to two specific initiatives. Firstly, we say yes to the fact that Boverket is given the task of developing something that the people and industry actually want, namely a system of public rental statistics so that all Swedes can compare and see if they pay a fair rent. Secondly, the Liberals are in favour of setting up a financial incentive contribution for municipalities that have shortened or successfully worked to reduce the processing times for planning and building permits cases. This provides far more housing than what Peter Eriksson's flume advice does, I can say. In the field of consumer policy, the Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, are exercising a return to the objectives of the Alliance's consumer policy, which are about strengthening the consumer power of individuals. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 4. We are already seeing that the Green Party wants to use consumer policy to control people's behaviour and to create further coffee clubs for environmental parties. Liberals therefore say no to the government's joint forum for eco-smart consumption. We do not need further flume conferences to talk about flume substances; instead, we actually need to talk directly about how to strengthen consumer power. Instead, the Liberals are in favour of increasing support for civil society organisations that promote consumer power in various ways, such as disability organisations that want to work with consumer power. We in the Liberals also say yes to and invest funds in order for the Swedish Consumer Agency to find measures to strengthen the consumer power of people with disabilities. We want people with disabilities to be given the opportunity to use their consumer power in a good, clear and effective – but also fair – way. It means a much better management of tax money to do in this way than in the way proposed by the Green Party and the government. On the Liberal side, we believe that the draft budget must be considered as a whole, and that is why we are not calling for our own reservation but for a separate opinion.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-899	Mr President, I would like to Robert had a lot of time in his speech, and I think that in some of the points he raised, he was almost on the verge of rudeness. When it comes to the government's commitment to sustainable construction, it is not a coffee club. It is basically about the government seeing that it is important that we build ecologically and socially sustainable in the future. Then serious research is needed. I hope that the Liberals take the same view, that is to say that we must actually carry out serious research in order to move forward on these rather difficult issues. I myself am a great advocate of district heating, but I also see the extremely complex matter that lies in the measurement of energy consumption and other things. The second point raised by Robert Hannah is the issue of skills supply. It's something the government is now working on. The big question is why the previous government did not work on these issues at all. The reason why we stand here without construction workers, civil engineers and surveyors is that there have been no training places. The previous government has not worked to get away from the shortage occupations that have existed for a long time and where the situation has now become acute due to the fact that it is being built as much as it does. I will come to my question. One of the biggest challenges ahead is to create housing for weak households. As a liberal and, I hope, basically a social-liberal party, this must be a basic foundation for the Liberals. There are no concrete proposals, so my thinking is how Robert Hannah and the Liberals will work on the fact that the large groups that are not entering the housing market today will actually do so. Housing allowance is available but nothing more.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-903	Mr President, I would like to I can answer all three points. There were two statements and one question. I'll start with sustainable construction. It is clear that Boverket is already working on sustainable construction, and it is clear that Lantmäteriet is already working on sustainable construction. It is clear that all Swedish authorities are already working on it. We don't need to have a special forum where various environmental-partisan ministers will come to Karlskrona or anywhere else to hold a lecture for an hour and have a hell of a jippo event. That's what it's all about. We are incredibly much in favour of sustainable construction, and we are working very hard on our environmental issues. The second point was the issue of skills supply. As far as I know, it is a matter of you not having invested in it in your own budget, Johan Löfstrand. The government can take care of skills and training places itself in its draft budget. If you're unhappy with that, you should go back to the bench and raise that grant. Liberals have worked very actively to strengthen universities of applied sciences and vocational training. We have worked to strengthen precisely those training courses that later lead to becoming a construction worker, where many today drop out. We have therefore actively worked to strengthen this particular type of skills supply, so I have no responsibility in any way whatsoever to take on board your criticism. As far as housing for weak households is concerned, we in the Liberals are very clear. We believe in the work line. We believe that people with lower incomes have lower incomes over a period of their lives. These are periods. It is about single parents who need support during part of their lives, and it is about people with guaranteed income who have worked actively throughout their lives and had good income but now receive guarantee income. It is there and then you need to support these individuals. We do not believe that this is done by subsidising construction. It's not fair, because you don't know who gets the buildings. The student apartments that are now to be built in Gothenburg with your subsidies do not help resource-weak households at all. As a result of the subsidies, newly built homes receive 200 SEK less rent than those built two years ago. Where's the justice there? Is there a social pathos in the whole thing? No.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-908	Mr President, I would like to Then we'll get back to the work line. Of course, as I raised in my speech, one of the most important prerequisites for getting a place of residence is having a job. However, throughout the morning we have debated the right to a fair salary when doing a job. It must then basically be about the work line also being applied in terms of ensuring that those who work – such as those who build our homes – have an appropriate salary. In Linköping it has been discovered that construction workers have earned 35 - 40 kronor an hour, because the procurement rules do not work. Is it really the Liberal view that this is part of the work line? Will this mean that there will be people who can afford to ask for housing? When you are not able to handle the work line, it becomes a problem to demand that people be able to live on their wages at the same time. I will come back to my question. The proposals put forward by the Liberals do not solve the question of how to deal with the weak groups of resources. In the 22-point programme presented by the government, there are a number of measures to streamline and further work on construction. The Alliance has said on a number of occasions that it will come back in the autumn with a comprehensive proposal on how to address a number of these challenges yourself. So far, I have not seen a joint proposal from the Alliance on how to do this. The government has a 22-point programme and is now working on the social dimension. The Alliance and the Liberals have nothing.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-912	Mr President, I would like to On the question of the working line: there is no member from any alliance party who thinks that cheaters are a good thing. Even trying to insinuate that we would think cheating is good is a bit of a fake country. Of course we believe in the work line. Of course we think that cheaters should be framed. It is no more than that – there is nothing to debate on that point. As for the social dimension, which you so strongly demand, I see a situation in Sweden where people with disabilities are left to die in a toilet in a shopping mall in Malmö. Is it a social dimension when you cut down on disabled people's right to assistance? No, it's definitely not a social fog's ion. Nor is it a social dimension to spend all the money in the pot on housing-building subsidies. This money goes right into the hands of wealthy developers and goes to homes already planned to be built. In the best of worlds, this will lead to a few hundredths less in the cost of the people who stand first in the housing queue. This is not a social dimension. On the Liberal side, we believe that the social dimension is that individuals who find it difficult to distinguish themselves and to take up a place in the housing market receive personal, individual support so that they can get help during the period they need it. I don't think people go around wanting to live on subsidies their whole lives. I don't think people want that life situation, but I think you want it for some parts of your life. Liberals spend 3 1⁄2 billion more in the budget movement than the Red-Green Government, together with its support party, does on housing allowances and housing allowances. This money goes to people with guaranteed income – i.e. pensioners – and to multi-child allowances. People who have several children usually have lower incomes, and therefore we spend extra money on getting higher housing supplements. It is a strong social dimension, it is social liberalism and it is absolutely the right policy for Sweden.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-917	Mr President, I would like to I've listened to Robert Hannahs's comments, but I'm not much wiser about it. Robert Hannah thinks everything is a jippo, circus, coffee rope and so on. This is a game for Robert Hannah. You don't care about the homeless. It's all a circus. You just want to show yourself here at the podium. It is interesting to gain insight into what you really think is important. All bets are just games. It's not like that. That is an incredibly unserious way of tackling this. A good way to extend queues to rental apartments, for example in Stockholm, is otherwise to reconstitute a lot of rental apartments. This is what your party has been working on for eight years – reshaping rentals, which greatly prolongs the queues. It is quite heavy on Robert Hannahs's shoulders to explain why these queues have been extended for a further number of years. But the important thing here, for those who listen to this debate, is to know that the result of what Robert Hannah and the bourgeois parties propose – what can be the big difference if the bourgeois parties win the election – is that the rents go up very strongly. Because we're supposed to have what's called market rents. The rents will be shocked. This will be solved by Robert Hannah with housing allowance and housing allowance. How much do you spend on this? In that case, it is about 10 to 20 billion to resolve this issue, perhaps even 30 billion. What taxes will Robert Hannah raise to finance this?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-921	Mr President, I would like to It's very interesting to hear Nooshi Dadgostar's doomsday prophecies. Let me be clear: the report you are pointing out is about a third in Stockholm city and the rent increase that would take place there. I hardly believe that all people in Sweden live in a third apartment in Stockholm city. Let us also be clear that this is a market economy at its highest level – no rules whatsoever apply. Nor is this proposed by any party. Let's finish this: This is what you're proposing. This is the report you're starting from. But I can explain a little bit about how it works if you want a socialist society, such as Cuba, which you in the Left Party have previously wanted to imitate. If you want the housing market to imitate this socialist society in half, in the leased market, it is clear that the market economy always beats socialism. This has been the case in every society that has existed throughout the world. That's why the Berlin Wall fell. You may have missed it, but it's fallen. It is clear that the rental market in Sweden today cannot compete with the owned market because free conditions apply there. Not all people who move into Stockholm have enough time in the housing queue to get a rental right. That's why they're forced to buy. There is a strong market power against owned housing precisely because the people who come to Stockholm and want a home are forced to buy it. There is simple mathematics behind the fact that we build more flats than rents. Anyone who wants to move to Stockholm is forced to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment. That is precisely why the Liberals are calling for a housing market in which an Indian engineer will be able to quickly come to Sweden and get a tenancy if it has the opportunity to do so. We shall also be able to provide support for those people who cannot assert themselves in the housing market. Nooshi Dadgostar must be a little jealous. She knows that her party will vote in favour of a budget motion of 3 1⁄2 billion less in housing allowances and housing allowances. It must feel very hard for you, I'm thinking.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-927	Mr President, I would like to I note that Robert Hannah has not had an impact in the Alliance, as no housing allowances or allowances were raised so sharply during the period of the Alliance in power. Surely that's what happens in reality that counts. I thank you very much for the market economy lecture that I have received in this House today. I can tell Robert Hannah that there is a very simple market economy link, namely that shortage leads to massive increases in prices. The report I refer to says that those who live in Botkyrka municipality – my municipality – receive 70% rent increases. We are not talking about threes in the inner city of Stockholm. You're turning for the Indian engineers to fly h it. I am talking about the employees here. I guess they'll get rents, too. Or is it only high wage earners who should be able to ask for this? You say that capital is the problem when rents are built. Then why do you say no to investment aid? Why do you say no to government loans if it is capital that is the big issue? I don't know what it is that Robert Hannah is trying to do a circus around. He talks about Cuba and other countries. I can tell Robert Hannah that Sweden is very unique, because during your reign we withdrew so much support from building housing. No other country has done so. In principle, all other countries in Europe, where you have your soul mates, have quite strong financing systems for building housing. Sweden stands out here. How do you talk to each other when you are out in Europe? Sweden has no support. You can see that there is a connection between us entering support and that there will be results. All the other budget lines work the same way.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-932	Mr President, I would like to If we are going to talk about uniquely, we can talk about the uniqueness of the fact that there are over 500 000 people in Stockholm's housing queue. Last year it took an average of 8.1 years to get a home, and according to the last report I received it will go over to 9 this year. In a country that you in the Left Party supported very much in the past, East Germany, it took seven years to get a car that was made there – I don't remember its name. It was therefore faster to get a car in East Germany, with seven years' waiting time, than it was possible to get a first-hand contract here in Stockholm city today. What I'm trying to say to you, Nooshi Dadgostar, which you don't understand because you don't understand what a market economy means, is that when we have a rental market that is fully regulated, that is not open and free, then we have a housing shortage where 350 000 young adults don't have a home. Then we get over 500 000 in Stockholm's housing queue, because it is not the market price you pay. The only people who pay the market price are all the 80s and 90s who now live with third-hand contracts and pay about 20 000 for a second in the city. There's the market economy today. I think we need to move on to more market thinking. I have not proposed what is in the report that you are now producing, but we need to move to more systematic rents. That's what the Tenants' Association says, and that's what Real Estate owners say. We have different views on how systematized they should be, but everyone agrees on this, except for the Left Party I see it. I think it might be good to take it easy on the slopes and not think that you know everything and have all the solutions, for your policy has been tried in Sweden for decades and has failed. We have had the housing market of the Left Party and the Social Democrats in relation to the leased part for many years, and we have the results. I don't understand why you beat your chest and think you have all the solutions. You do not have the solutions, you are completely wrong.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-938	Mr President, I would like to For almost 20 years we have built far too little in Sweden. Year by year, the lack of housing has grown. It has become a problem that spreads to other parts of society and the economy. Prices of villas and flats have increased much more than is reasonable and good. Young people and families with children today have to incur millions of debts in order to obtain housing at all. In large cities, the housing shortage is at its greatest. This means that it is difficult for companies to grow and attract labour. This, in turn, means that we are missing out on the development of welfare, and an increasing number of assessors are talking about the risks to the national economy. We have got a growing debt mountain in Swedish households. What happens if interest starts to rise again and if prices on the housing market suddenly fall? What happens if the recession comes and unemployment increases and there are no longer any margins left in the household fund? The Riksbank has long warned against this development, but the previous government chose to transfer responsibility for banks and financial markets from the Riksbank to the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Government. The Riksbank has thus received a more limited mandate – the inflation target – as its main task. Therefore, it has gradually invested in lower interest rates, which in turn has put more wood on the fire, with increased house prices and growing debts as a result. The housing shortage is a major problem with effects and risks to the national economy. The problem with the opposition's budgetary response is that they would all lead to a reduction in construction and that today's problem would be even worse. It is therefore extremely gratifying that we are now finally building properly. For the first time in decades, this is happening throughout the country, and it is happening with a more active housing policy than before. 30 000 dwellings were built in 2014. This year the forecast from Boverket is that we will start 64 000 new homes, and next year it will be 67 000. It is a doubling in a short time, and the change has come quickly. Even last spring it was assessors who thought that Sweden could not manage to build more than 40,000 homes per year. This is not enough, but it is an improvement and a good step forward. What is the reason for the rapid change? The answer is not that we have a new Minister of Housing. But now the municipalities and the government as well as industry are moving in the same direction. It is about the fact that, since the 2014 elections, there has been increased involvement in the municipalities, both among politicians and among officials, in order for us to meet the challenge of building more. Some municipalities have gone ahead and shown that it is possible. We will thank Växjö, Örebro, Linköping, Umeå and a few others, who have deliberately developed land and detailed plans and shown what can be done to get speed and competition when it comes to construction. The Swedish construction industry has shown that production can be greatly increased. This contributes to more jobs, growth and shelter for more people. The government for its part has shown the way by allocating SEK 6 billion a year in the state budget to support increased housing production. The municipalities that build and take responsibility now receive SEK 1.8 billion in extra money from the state. Lilla Alvesta receives 5.6 million, Uppsala receives 103 million, Helsingborg receives 62 million and Eskilstuna receives 41 million. However, Strängnäs, Ekerö, Danderyd and Lidingö get nothing – they have not even applied. We have introduced investment aid aimed at the construction industry in order to obtain affordable rental housing and student housing. This will hopefully have a good effect next year. We also allocate 1 billion to renovation, energy efficiency and support for the improvement of outdoor environments in the million-dollar programme. This summer we also started work on the so-called 22-point programme, which is about getting faster building decisions and building permits and which allows for increased construction. Sweden is going well now. Unemployment is falling, investment is increasing and we have an economy that is better and stronger than in other comparable countries. The problems at the moment are about matching the unemployed and newly arrived with all the jobs available in the construction sector and other parts of the economy that are growing. The competence issue is becoming increasingly important, which makes the former government's disarmament of Arbetsförmedlingen and adult education a major problem; it has become a millstone that creates concerns in the work to reduce unemployment and make Sweden stronger. In the government, therefore, we are now working intensively to resolve skills issues, and before Christmas the two coordinators I have appointed will present their proposals.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-953	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Housing for being in the debate here today. It cannot be considered economically reasonable that the City of Stockholm decided the other day to pay hotel accommodation for 200 newly arrived immigrants to Sweden at a cost of SEK 40 million. The Swedish Democrats have completely different views from the government on immigration policy in Sweden. However, if we ignore the fact that we differ a lot there, we know that it means big costs, for example, to arrange accommodation for those who are in construction housing around Sweden and also that there is a major housing crisis throughout Sweden. I heard Johan Löfstrand, Member of the Social Democratic Parliament, speak of an invitation to the opposition to participate in housing policy talks. There are a lot of issues to discuss. For example, we have households' funding for buying housing, construction companies' funding for building and increased competition between construction companies to reduce construction costs. A housing and infrastructure preparation can be proposed to discuss the conditions for increasing housing construction in the long term. We have tax and deduction issues in the area of housing policy. And perhaps it could be on a horizontal regional body to manage a regional housing planning. There are a number of issues to be discussed, but above all one needs to sit down to get a holistic view of these issues, because they are very touching. My question to the Minister for Housing is: Will the Swedish Democrats be invited to the talks?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-959	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have had talks with the opposition recently. The opposition dropped out– they were not very interested in coming to a conclusion in the discussions. At the moment, however, we have a good opportunity. The government proposal has been dealt with in the state budget and in the committee. I wonder back: why has Roger Hedlund not taken the opportunity to write about these things in the reservations, if he is now interested in making deals and has concrete proposals?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-961	Mr President, I would like to The political proposals I mentioned just now are included in the Swedish Democrats' draft budget in Category 18. They are also included in the committee motion that the Swedish Democrats have initiated in the Riksdag on housing policy issues. Many of the proposals are not directly new either, but have been included in previous proposals. Then there are some that we have built on in this year's budget and in this year's committee motion. All the proposals have been there for the government and Peter Eriksson to look at and perhaps also ask questions about in order to be able to understand more closely what we Swedish democrats think and to see if there might be common approaches to the issues. Above all, when one makes such a big deal, which concerns many committees in Parliament, such as the Tax Committee, the Finance Committee and the Civil Committee, it is important to sit down and look at the whole – how one proposal affects another. It is not only possible to introduce a form of tax change, it is important to look at the whole and how it affects the whole policy and the whole state financial system. I ask my question once again: Will Peter Eriksson, in addition to the opportunities we have here today and in other forums to discuss the question from the government, invite the Swedish Democrats to housing policy talks where we can calmly look at the whole and see if we can get some common denominators that we can present to the Riksdag to make decisions on? This may be a matter of private talks with the Swedish Democrats or together with the Alliance and other parliamentary parties in order to move forward on this hugely important issue.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-965	Mr President, I would like to I can give you a clear answer on this: we will not invite the Swedish Democrats to talk about making a settlement in the area of housing policy. I do not see that there is a fundamental starting point where we are close enough. I also hear from Roger Hedlund today that the problem for you is more about people coming to Stockholm and trying to stop it in any way than about how we can help these people with housing and shelter over their heads.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-967	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to listen to the Minister for Housing in today's debate. I think we can agree that it is incredibly gratifying that it is predicted to be built as much as it does this year. That also applies next year and what will begin then. One can think about how this comes about. Is it because the government promised subsidies a year and a half ago that were completed last week? The answer is no. It is about municipalities having seen that they have a great need for more housing and that they have worked hard with their planning. I think that's great. At the same time, wherever I come, a few questions are raised as an obstacle. It is the treatment of national interests, beach protection and noise that we have had up here before. But that is also the question of appeal. When you talk to industry, especially those who work in industrial construction, it is the municipal special requirements that cause it. You can't use your concept. I think this clearly indicates that we need to continue with reforms. I feel that the government is incredibly slow when it comes to making proposals. My question is really: when will de facto proposals that help municipalities to further increase new production of housing?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-972	Mr President, I would like to My impression is that Ewa Thalén Finné and the Moderates here in Parliament are making the same mistakes as some moderate councillors in the country and perhaps especially here in the Stockholm region. It chooses to see the problems and obstacles instead of highlighting the opportunities. There are many people in the debate on housing policy who have said in recent years: there are so many problems. There are far too many rules and one with the other. It takes too long to build, and there will be too many appeals. A lot of these things are real. There are problems. But there are also those who have chosen to see the possibilities, and that is what I tried to highlight in my speech. There are a number of municipalities that have chosen to see the possibilities to solve this, to go around the rules and to manage it effectively. You draw up detailed plans and land and make sure it is built. You can do that. Worse problems are not with the Swedish rule system than that it is possible. This is what the Swedish municipalities are now showing. It is not impossible to build in Sweden. It is perfectly possible to build in Sweden. But you have to learn how the system works and manage it in a smart and modern way. The alternative is to keep whining and saying that there are so many obstacles and problems. We are now working to reduce the obstacles. We'll make sure there's faster processes. We shall ensure that the regulatory framework is reduced. In addition, we have an active housing policy that supports efforts to build rental housing at affordable prices for ordinary people and benefits those who choose to build instead of writing letters to the government that there are major problems with people coming to Sweden.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-976	Mr President, I would like to It was an interesting speech from the Minister of Housing. At first he means that me and the Moderates choose to only see problems. Then the Minister says that you might want to change some of the rules. Make up your mind! Here's the thing: We can fully agree that it is a municipal responsibility to build and how to use the land. What, then, is the responsibility of the Riksdag? That is to ensure that we have adequate regulations. I meet many excellent municipalities where the regulations are mastered in an excellent way. But I also meet smaller municipalities where you haven't built for a long time and where you don't master the regulations. I meet small builders and new players who don't master the rules. Then I think it is my duty to ensure that we get regulations that work, that open up and that make it easy. That does not mean that we do not have to have regulations, because that is a matter of course. At least it is my drive to succeed in all that we can improve. I see many dilemmas in which, for example, an appeal to the County Administrative Board – which we would like to remove – takes a long time and where further appeal is then made. It's about the time suit. It costs money, and it makes it difficult. I believe that our task is to ensure that we have legislation that is adequate and clear and that allows you to work even if you do not do this every day.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-979	Mr President, I would like to There is much that can be done if there is political will. I think there is a big difference today compared to the previous one: there is today a greater political will to do something and to build housing. We had a government during the last parliamentary term that spent eight years most of our time investigating. I think there were some sixty investigations. It didn't happen very concretely. Above all, not much was built in Sweden during this period. There was a dramatic difference compared to now. I do not think that the difference is due to the fact that what was not done in the last parliamentary term has finally been passed on. It is because there is now a commitment out in Sweden to ensure that we solve the challenges we face. The concern is that you show in your financial perspectives that you would like to go back to the way things were before. That would make the situation worse. This would mean that prices will increase even more again on flats and villas in Sweden. This would mean that the lack of housing is increasing even more and that we are building less. Then there is the risk that Finansinspektionen and the government must resort to measures that are much more dramatic and draconian to stop the development – if we are not to get a financial bubble with even worse results in the form of a recession and a sharp increase in unemployment in Sweden. You should know that the risk with your policy is that this will affect Sweden very seriously. It is not small things that you are doing when you say that you should stop all the efforts that the government is making.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-983	Mr President, I would like to Peter Eriksson is the former member of the Constitutional Committee. It should be no surprise to him that we have a requirement for the preparation of all the proposals put forward. If 60 investigations were carried out during the previous government, especially with Stefan Attefall at the helm, it was because it is a requirement that investigations must be made. You can't push past the investigation and the referral period. Peter Eriksson knows that. How can he boast that what he would otherwise have done as a minister is already done?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-984	Mr President, I would like to I respect Stefan Attefall. He also did some good things, but there were more investigations than real policies carried out in this area. Tuve Skånberg comes even more directly from the Constitutional Committee than I do and can think about how it is that you are making an announcement that he expects to sign that we will do things immediately from the government without any preliminary decisions whatsoever.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-986	Mr President, I would like to When a committee says that it is, of course, right away, taking into account the processing requirements. Nothing can be done more quickly than at the same time to comply with the Constitution. It'll take as long as it takes. The fast track may be in a year or so. I would like to make another point, and it is a starting loan. The Christian Democrats share Peter Eriksson's view that the demand for ownership of housing is not matched by today's production of housing. At the same time, the requirement for self-employment, combined with amortisation requirements, has significantly increased the threshold for owner-occupied housing, which mainly excludes young people who want to buy their first home from the housing market. Instead, they are referred to expensive rental apartments, which are usually more expensive in the long run. The Christian Democrats want to explore the possibility of introducing a system that helps to reduce the problems of the high thresholds for the property without leading to over-indebtedness and a overheated housing market. One example of such a system is start-up loans, which exist in several countries and have meant a great deal to enable young consumers and people with low but stable incomes in particular to move beyond the threshold of ownership. Especially so-called start-up loans in Norway and UK so-called Help to Buy are relevant to a Swedish context. The start-up loan involves State aid for the capital injection in the form of a top-notch loan. These top loans shall have the same strict amortisation requirements as apply to the mortgage market in general and market interest rates. The small houses and apartments that are eligible for start-up loans, we also believe, should be subject to a ceiling for what they may cost. Is Peter Eriksson prepared to try such a thought?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-991	Mr President, I would like to I find it interesting to look at various forms of financial engineering, and I am happy to do so with the opposition. It's definitely interesting. We also have an investigation going that way. I also think it was interesting – regarding the previous debate on this announcement of immediate action which, in any case, a majority of the civil committee seems to have envisaged – that I should interpret it as meaning that it may take some year. It was good to get that information, because it's not a language I'm used to using in such contexts.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-993	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask you something completely different, but first I want to talk about this with announcements. We have announcements about noise, ownership apartments, planning initiatives for developers, beach protection and rent purchases. None of this has been implemented in any way during Mehmet Kaplan's time or since Peter Eriksson took over. It is clear that when the government does not in any way listen to what the majority in parliament thinks, new initiatives are being put in place. As far as noise is concerned, it is a question of decibel level, so no investigation is required, but a little action by the government is required. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the report. Who wants to build? Who can live? A long-term sustainable policy to deal with the housing shortage signed in 2012 by the then spokesperson of the Green Party Åsa Romson. Gustav Fridolin was also behind the report. In it, the Green Party writes that long-termism is achieved through caution with sudden market-disrupting efforts. Examples include large-scale general investment aid. This type of aid may have a short-term positive effect on the pace of housing construction, but it risks undermining incentives to build in times where support cannot be given. Moreover, they are very costly, are not demanded by those who build and are at risk of having cost-driven and distortive effects on the market. ..................................................... Is Åsa Romson and Gustav Fridolin and your entire party leadership from 2012 wrong when they criticise the housing subsidies that you are now launching as your only major housing policy project? After all, you think that they are the solution to all the problems that exist in the housing market. At least that's what it sounds like if you listen to Nooshi Dadgostar. Have you changed your mind? Do you take back everything you say in this report, and is it a new attitude from the Green Party that you regret everything you said in 2012 with regard to housing subsidies?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-999	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that we have responded to the announcements made by the committee. As regards, for example, the announcement of noise, since I took office, I have ensured that the investigation from Boverket will be accelerated and completed by the end of the year. It is soon, and you can really call it that right away. There will be an answer from Boverket to that question and then the government will take a stand. As far as investment aid is concerned, they are not the only ones at all. We have a series of measures. We have a broad structural housing policy today, unlike the previous government, which is not just about support but about a series of measures such as bonuses for municipalities and other measures to make it faster, cheaper and easier to build and reduce the time for the planning process. In addition, we are working on a digitalised construction and planning process, which will greatly streamline this in the future when it is implemented. So we have many measures today in the political bag that we use and work with, unlike the previous government. I think that this kind of statement by Robert Hannah falls quite flat to the ground. I also find it a pity that, during the previous debate, Robert Hannah allowed himself to be dragged down to a rather large extent to be a dung spreader. I do not think it is worthy of a parliamentary debate.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1003	Mr President, I would like to As far as noise is concerned, the legislation that was delivered was not at all what the Alliance got through here in Parliament. Basically, you have done nothing at all with that announcement, but you did something completely different. When it comes to digitalisation of construction and planning processes, I think it is a very positive development. But the housing minister won't answer my questions. Does the Minister of Housing think that the Green Party was wrong in the past and that you have changed your opinion on investment aid? Was Åsa Romson and Gustav Fridolin wrong? I'd like some answers. I do not understand the housing policy of the Green Party today. In the past, then, you were against subsidies. Now you're for them. Previously, you were for interest rebates. Now you are against interest rebates, because you are not doing anything about the situation. In the past, you were against regulatory changes and voted against all the proposals made by the Alliance in a government position, and now you are suddenly in favour of regulatory simplification. In the past, you were against noise. Now you have said well and brought forward legislation that is not at all in line with what was decided in Parliament. It's completely unclear. The only thing to say that you have retained your housing policy is that you are turning for energy efficiency and national interest. I cannot say that there is much left of your housing policy at all. That is why it would be good for those of us who are in opposition to get a clear view of whether the Green Party thinks you were wrong about the policy you were pursuing in 2012. You said then that housing subsidies are a short-term effort that risks undermining the incentives to build at a time when aid cannot be given, that they are costly, do not demand and risk having cost-driven and distortive effects on the housing market. I would like to know whether or not you withdraw that position.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1009	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah makes a lot of claims all the time. There's no way to respond to even half of what he's making up in two minutes. As far as investment aid is concerned, it is true that there are high risks of investment aid if they are formulated incorrectly. The investment aid that we have landed in now I can support. It is not a question of competing out housing production at the best locations. It is about making it possible to build at reasonable prices on B and C modes. There is also a guarantee rent level. It will be exciting to see how it will work. I think there is a good chance that there can be good support, for example for municipal housing companies that want to build but today find it difficult to build at reasonable prices so that ordinary people can afford the rents. This makes it easier for ordinary people to get a rental dwelling, even if it is new. On the noise issue, I am not just talking about the decision that the government has already taken, about reducing the noise level requirements. I am also talking about the request we have made to Boverket. They will analyse the proposal contained in the announcement by the opposition and the Riksdag. Once that analysis is complete, we will consider how to act, as a result of the announcement. That is how we work, systematically and gradually. When we are finished, we will also respond to how we will implement it.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1014	Mr President, I would like to I would like to use the replica opportunity I have and try to have a sensible discussion about how we can increase the share of newly produced rentals. It will be about what part of this debate has called market rents. I think that is a wrong definition of what we should be discussing now. I wonder if there is anything in the criticism that companies that build and manage rentals bring forward towards a system of setting rents. As a result, they often choose to produce other forms of leasing. In addition, the renovation of homes may be redesigned or refrained from doing so. Newly produced rental apartments are relatively expensive. Investment aid – whether or not you like it – does not create the decisive difference in whether or not the rent for a rental agreement becomes affordable for the tenant. It is, as we all know, about the existing leases. We're having a problem with renting. This means that rents do not rise at the same rate as households' disposable income. It also deters companies from these investments. The system of presumption rents has, in relative agreement, chosen as the way we should deal with the situation. And it has to do with whether it is going to be interesting at all to newly produce rental apartments. The Alliance has extended the period of presuming rents from 10 to 15 years. The current government has not chosen to shorten that time. On the contrary, thoughts have been put forward by the Prime Minister and proposals to develop the renting model, in paragraph 16 of the 22-point list. This is about an investigation that will produce constitutional changes that will allow the presumption rent system to develop. I am a little curious about how Peter Eriksson views the further preparation of such a question. Does he share my view that the leasing system and the presumption renting model, or an alternative to this, could be an opportunity to create more rental rights in the future?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1020	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that not a single party seems to stand up because it believes that we should switch to market rents, at least not in the speaker's seat in the debate today. Some people might want to do that. But no one dares stand up for it and say it. Nooshi is right that this would lead to a sharp increase in rents for many people. That's probably the background to no one really wants to stand for it. With regard to the policy that we are now pursuing in this area, in order to obtain more rental housing, we have initially introduced investment aid in order to obtain more rental housing at reasonable prices. It's part of new production. Then there is the question of whether increased production can be envisaged in the better locations, that rental dwellings are built there to a greater extent instead of residential units. Now it is residential apartments that dominate in the better locations, and they have been doing so for quite some time. To look at it, we've set up an investigation into the presumption rent. It can be a matter of fileting at the edges so that it can be a little better, more stable, safer and safer, so that the property owners, those who produce, will dare to build rental housing to a greater extent. It's very interesting. It could also be a kind of dispute resolution. In a lot of cases, it is now possible to do so. Property owners and tenants' associations do not agree on the market. It leads to a stop in production. Perhaps it would also be good to have a dispute settlement model. It will be interesting to see if we can find one.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1024	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the discussion. There are easy stamps on lots, and it is claimed that parties say different things. As far as I am aware, there is no party in Sweden or even any party in the housing policy debate that has ever advocated market rents unilaterally. In various ways, the leasing system is described as a problem. I think most people agree that it limits in different ways. The fact that we agree that something needs to be done about this is a good thing. I also believe that one of the reasons why the housing talks could not be completed was that they held quite tight in that sarga. It has become quite clear during the day. It was important for the government that the Left Party, with the view expressed here by Nooshi Dadgostar, should remain at the table. It was more important than getting a broad agreement. A broad agreement can only be sought if it is about bringing about substantial changes to the conditions. It is about the rules of the market, the conditions for increasing construction and breaking the issues where there may be differences of opinion at all. Is the Minister of Housing ready to start new talks? If so, is it most important that the Left Party remains at the table? Or it's more important to get along. We read almost daily that various external parties, and also internal ones – the OECD, the Long-term investigation and many in the housing policy debate – seem to agree that the big problem in getting more rental rights is the way we put rents on.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1029	Mr President, I would like to As far as housing policy talks are concerned, I am definitely, all the time, ready to start them up again. We have said it publicly a couple of times, but the opposition has rejected it clearly. They don't want to start the calls again. I do not have the impression that it would be because the opposition agrees on making some real changes. On the contrary, the opposition is rather fragmented and does not really have any concrete proposals for real change, more than removing the efforts made by the government. In practice, this would mean that we will have less housing production. It keeps coming back to the fact that there must be something substantial and real if we are to resume the talks, which I am happy to do. I agree with that. It should be important in the housing market. I do not think that the bourgeois opposition has presented such a thing so far. Nor was such a thing included in the article last summer, which distanced itself from further discussions. It was just about details in the area. None of the points highlighted can be seen as decisive or have any significant significance in this context.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1032	Mr President, I would like to Then we move on to another policy area that is of great importance to all citizens, because we are all consumers. The government has started the first two years with a clearly increased level of ambition in terms of having a well-functioning consumer policy and a high level of protection for us consumers. We are living at a time when developments are moving very fast with digitalisation, globalisation and urbanisation. It affects our everyday lives, our planet and the way we look at the outside world and at each other. The consumer market is also rapidly changing for the same reason at the moment. For example, digitalisation creates new opportunities for marketing. There are sales channels that we have not seen before and new payment solutions. This affects everyday life for us consumers in a tangible way. Most of the development is positive. It opens up many new opportunities for consumers. But there are also risks, and these risks must be countered through an active consumer policy. We from the government have worked hard to improve the situation for consumers. Through a series of measures, we have strengthened the consumer protection regulatory framework and improved the ability to exercise effective enforcement. We have also improved the possibility of getting help and information through the information service Hello consumer who can give us consumers good support. In last autumn's budget proposal, the government presented a strategy to combat over-indebtedness. We are now moving forward with further measures, including a collaboration council that will enable more people who have or risk having problems with debt to get help. We have also made recommendations to budget and debt counselling to enable that activity to function more effectively and reach out to more people. Mr President, I would like to The interest in consuming sustainably continues to grow at a rapid pace. More and more consumers want to buy goods and services that meet both social and environmental requirements. For example, we see this in an almost exploding demand for organic food and Fairtrade products. It simply wants to be part of the solution as a consumer. More and more companies are also seeing the economic gains that can be made through ambitious sustainability efforts. New business models are being developed. It also contributes to more sustainable consumption. This is very gratifying. But it is also clear that today's consumption is far from sustainable. This is an urgent problem for many consumers and also for us in the government. It is not about – as was expressed earlier in the debate – flume conferences to talk about flume issues. If you consider sustainability issues to be fluid issues, you are completely wrong and not in contact with the Swedish people. We simply need to see that many of today's environmental problems are linked to our consumption and production patterns. Goods and services we buy affect the environment in several stages, in manufacturing, in use and in waste management – or recycling at best. In order to turn society into a greener direction, where Sweden has high visions, we must also do what we can to make consumption more sustainable. When the countries of the world adopted the UN's new global sustainability goals last September, the message was clear: all countries must do what they can to achieve a sustainable world. One of the 17 objectives is precisely about sustainable production and consumption. I am proud that we in the government have presented a strategy for sustainable consumption. We increase our knowledge of sustainability issues, including by setting up a forum at the Swedish Consumer Agency that can collect good examples and disseminate them to other actors, so that you simply learn from each other and work efficiently. Today, many consumers find it difficult to know how to act sustainably as a consumer. Here we need to improve support and help. As more and more of us want to consume sustainably, such things as a lack of information, costs, habits and the influence of the environment can sometimes stand in the way. This makes it difficult to act and move from words to actions. Therefore, we want to commission the Swedish Consumer Agency to actively stimulate more environmentally smart consumption patterns, for example by nuding where behavioural science methods make it easier to choose the best environmental options. We allocate SEK 43 million until 2020 for this work. It is simply in order to make it easy to do the right thing for consumers. In addition, we implement tax proposals that make it cheaper and repair and maintain their gadgets. It is about reducing VAT for the repair of bicycles, clothing and shoes. It makes it more economical to fix your stuff instead of just tossing and buying new ones. We also introduce repair reductions for household items, such as washing machines, refrigerators and freezers. The aim is to encourage the use of the resources available as efficiently as possible. Happily, it has received great international attention. Sweden once again appears to be a forerunner in sustainable consumption patterns. We also see that parts of the economy are growing rapidly and continue to grow in the future. Digitalisation makes it easier to exchange and borrow goods and services from each other. There is a minor revolution in how you view ownership. You focus more on the service than on the product itself. It is a great opportunity that we should seize. We also need to see how this has affected our rights and obligations as consumers and producers. That is why we have set up an investigation to look at these important issues. We also have high ambitions when it comes to the real estate market. It is often the biggest deal we enter as consumers. We have given a significantly increased contribution to Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen of SEK 21 million until 2020. This is an increase of one third compared to the previous budget. It now gives Fastighetsmäklarinspektionen the resources to follow the property market and ensure compliance with the regulations. It should not be possible to use lock prices, incorrect display of prices and a lack of information that makes it difficult for us consumers. This is simply a budget that signals a high level of ambition from the government in terms of the important consumer policy. We are probably many consumers who have sometimes felt that we have ended up in difficult situations and that we would have needed help. Here the government is now actively trying to face up to this, and we are continuing to pursue a policy that puts consumer rights in focus and that highlights how we consumers can contribute to a more sustainable future.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1049	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that we from the Civil Committee are very pleased that both Minister Eriksson and Minister Per Bolund are taking part in the civil committee's budget debate, which has now been going on for almost five hours. Knowing the state's schedule, we are pleased that you are giving priority to this debate. Parliament is the first state power, so it is a very good priority. At least we're grateful to have Per Bolund here. I have a number of questions that may appear to be peripheral, but I would nevertheless like to raise them in this debate. It happens that different wills appear when someone has died. They can be of different dates or stored in different places. They may amaze one after another. The inheritance plots can vary quite so much. It also happens that wills do not appear, although – at least according to the rumor – there should be a will established. The Christian Democrats propose in the draft budget that a voluntary will register could be kept at the Swedish Tax Agency. There, if you wish, you could register your will. Then you can be sure that what I want as a final disposition of my assets will become a reality. If the will needs to be changed, you know where it is registered. Then you can register a new one if the conditions change. Could Per Bolund react to this proposal and say whether he thinks it is possible to move in that direction?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1054	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the fact that we are still debating, despite the fact that there have been many hours and also the time allocated to debate these important issues. I see that consumer issues are becoming increasingly important for us to achieve the high national targets that we have for Sweden to become one of the world's fossil-free welfare countries. This also applies internationally in order for us to achieve the global sustainability goals that have been set. We all know that when it does not work for us in the consumer markets, we often feel very vulnerable. Sometimes we feel quite powerless against large market players. We need a framework, support for us consumers who make us feel safe and dare to act. It is incredibly important that we have an ambitious policy and come up with new proposals to solve the problems that exist in the case of product groups where sales do not work, in the case of sales channels that simply do not lead to the consumer's best interests. There we have a high level of ambition, and I am pleased that there is also an interest from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in these matters. As regards the partial question asked by Tuve Skånberg about wills, I agree that this is an urgent question. When you have lost a close relative, you have a lot of other thoughts in your head. There are many difficulties that need to be addressed. Then I think we should facilitate as much as possible for the survivors to deal with the situation in a good way. The question of will records has not appeared on my table. But I will certainly take it with me and see how we can continue to work and whether there are conditions or whether there are arguments against. If there is an interest and commitment that the state can play a role here, I think it is of course urgent to see whether we can facilitate the situation. It was a positive proposal which I certainly take with me for further consideration.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1060	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I would like to mention the sustainability initiative that will go to a special forum. Liberals are a lot for sustainability work. What we are not convinced of, however, is precisely this forum. From what I understand, there's gonna be a bunch of experts working on this. We do not think that is a good priority. We are investing that money in strengthening consumer organisations, for example. This can be about consumer organisations that want to work on sustainability issues. We believe that this is a much more effective effort. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Consumer Affairs why the money should go to a forum instead of giving it directly to the consumer organisations dealing with the issues of everyday life.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1063	Mr President, I would like to It was gratifying to hear that there was no general opposition to sustainability expressed in Robert Hannahs's previous post. However, it would be good if he could explain what he meant by his statement that it is a matter of flume conferences to talk about flume issues. What questions are fluid issues according to Robert Hannahs's definition? I think most of the people who heard him interpreted it as just about sustainability, because that's what the forum should be working on. If sustainability is a fluke issue, it would be good to get it clear from Robert Hannah. Otherwise the statement becomes unclear and not so easy to interpret. An explanation would therefore be very good to get and would be appropriate, I think. I understand that Robert Hannah and the Liberals do not think this is a good priority. We also saw this during eight years of alliance rule. During these eight years, consumer policy's sustainability issues were constantly under-privileged. Resources were actively removed and said that the Swedish Consumer Agency would not work on these issues. This is worrying because it is contrary to a very strong trend and development in the consumer market. There is an increasing environmental commitment, and many consumers are unfortunately feeling neglected today. They do not get information, support and help to be active consumers in the way they want to be. It is regrettable that this interest is being ignored and that the Liberals do not see the need to provide support in consumer policy also on sustainability issues. However, it follows a trend that we saw already during the eight years. We have increased the budget for consumer organisations by 30% this year compared with the previous year. So we have already made a powerful increase, but we are, of course, prepared to invest more money if necessary. Support for groups that sometimes have difficulties, such as disabled people, is of course an important area. The Swedish Consumer Agency and other authorities are actively working to improve the opportunities for this group to have more access to information and get it in such a way that you can be active as a consumer.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1070	Mr President, I would like to I think we share the commitment to these issues, but we have different views on how to work with them. Liberals think it is important that it is not we politicians who sit and rule and decide what people should eat and drink and how they should behave, whether they should go or how to travel or what restaurant to go to. We think it is up to the individual to be able to govern this, and therefore our consumer policy is focused on consumer power. The trend of organic food etcetera mentioned by the Minister in the speaker's chair has come despite the fact that we do not have this party's composite forum for environmentally smart consumption, which we therefore say no to. That I call this a flume event is because I have seen how other events have been. Two three ministers go there and give speeches in a large hall. Then there are conferences and some conversations, and then there is not much of it. We do not want to spend money on this. We would rather spend money on the existence of consumer organisations, i.e. parties made up of members, who want to work on sustainability issues. This is good, according to us. However, we do not think that the Green Party should decide what people should eat, drink or do in their everyday lives. We are opposed to this, and we point out that the joint forum, where public authorities are mixed with private individuals, is not a good composition. All of a sudden, politicians and authorities will sit and tell consumer organisations and individuals how to behave. It doesn't make sense. The important thing for us is to focus on consumer power. I am not very pleased with the Minister's reply on activities and measures for people with disabilities. Has the Minister made any suggestions? Has he had talks with disabled people's organisations about consumer power?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1074	Mr President, I would like to I am concerned to hear sweeping accusations in the Swedish Parliament without the speaker demonstrating the justification for making such accusations. Robert Hannah may not have any possibility of further reply, but after the posts we have heard before it would have been interesting if he had been able to exemplify where in our budget it says that we should govern what people should eat and how they should live. Of course, the government has no such ambitions. That would be strange to us. Our proposal is about opening up opportunities and providing support and information that consumers need in order to be active and be able to take responsibility. There is enormous support and a willingness on the part of Sweden's consumers to be part of the solution and to reduce global problems through their own consumption patterns. We see how topical this is right now with Arctic ice melting and with more extreme weather events. If this is not done, as I regret to say the Liberals are doing – we also saw it during the eight years of the Alliance – consumers feel even more vulnerable. Survey studies show that at least six out of ten consumers want to make a difference to sustainability when they are in a consumer position. Even more people feel that it is difficult. They do not have the information and support they need to act. I think that we in the Swedish Parliament have a responsibility to help them with this and provide them with this information. I am concerned that Robert Hannah and the Liberals are fighting against the knowledge and information that many consumers want. As I said, we support consumer organisations. I do not think it is justified to use them as a pretext for not providing support to authorities too, so that they can have the resources to work with. We have a dialogue with consumer organisations, which are also represented by groups that may have difficulties with the usual consumption channels, and with authorities such as the Swedish Consumer Agency. There we talk about how to work with those groups that are more vulnerable in the consumer market. This is an urgent matter for the government.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1079	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Government addressed the whole of consumer policy, because I intend to concentrate on the consumer policy objective. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservation No 16 and for the other reservations to be rejected. The objective of consumer policy on well-functioning consumer markets and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption, which was adopted here in Parliament in 2015, remains equally topical. What was considered in last year's debate as a reason for changing the then target was that many consumer markets are undergoing rapid transformation, which offers new opportunities for consumers. At the same time, developments are changing the circumstances of consumers. Increasingly complex markets are at risk of further increasing consumers' information disadvantage, and sometimes business practices are intrusive, which may harm not least more vulnerable groups of consumers. By countering unhealthy business practices and strengthening consumers through legal rights and relevant consumer support, consumer policy can contribute to the proper functioning of consumer markets. Furthermore, more sustainable consumption should be promoted. As the government said then, a broader approach to consumer policy is therefore needed. The Christmas trade is predicted to break all the records this year. The forecast is 77.7 billion. There is a huge amount of money that we spend in the last months of the year. It says something about how important the area is to be a consumer and to have the right conditions to be a consumer. Almost every year, Christmas stores record the purchase of Christmas gifts and food, and at the same time increase the amount of waste. If we continue at this rate, the amount of waste will have doubled within 15 years. That's something to think about. For us, it is important that all consumers are given good opportunities to make the right decisions, which is not easy all the time. It is necessary to strengthen consumer empowerment, to increase consumer information and to improve the knowledge of the individual consumer. More and more goods are being bought in our increasingly complex online trade both inside and outside Sweden. That is why increased knowledge and consumer support are needed. The objective of consumer policy is a well-functioning consumer market and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. It's a goal that lasts a long time. We want to make it easier for people to be active consumers, act consciously and contribute to a more sustainable world. In doing so, we want to strengthen the ability of consumers to act in a sustainable manner without, for that reason, controlling. Everything we consume affects society and the environment here in Sweden and globally. Climate is one of our biggest challenges. We have a lot to do to make our consumption more sustainable. We know from the past that a clear majority of Swedish consumers think that environmental and economic and social sustainability issues are important. Previous investigations from the Swedish Commerce Federation confirm this. That is why we believe that it should be easier to act more sustainably from the perspective of consumer policy. Being a consumer has always been difficult, and it will not be easier in the future with the challenges that exist in our society. Mr President, I would like to In order for people to be given the opportunity to make their own choices, a functioning consumer market is required. Information and knowledge are needed for this. We also need to combat unhealthy business practices and strengthen consumers with statutory rights and relevant consumer support. Municipal consumer guidance and Hallå konsument complement each other in a positive way in order to provide consumers with the necessary support in the complex consumer market that we are living with today.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1088	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with what Mrs Ewa Thalén said about housing policy and calling for the approval of reservation 4. We will abstain in paragraph 1 in favour of a specific opinion. Then I would like to focus on consumer policy and Moderates' priorities in this area. In many respects, we agree with consumer policy in this area, perhaps also on the need for several further reforms to strengthen consumer protection. Many good things have been done, in many parts in broad agreement. We have received a new debt restructuring act that has begun to apply this month. There have been improvements for the Swedish Consumer Agency with strengthened sanctions possibilities. Recently, we decided on enhanced protection in the mortgage market. In addition, there is quite a lot of work going on at European level on the purchase of digital goods and services, where we are also largely in agreement. For us Moderates, it is a question of promoting a viable business and, at the same time, strengthening and protecting consumer protection. But much more needs to be done. One of our biggest challenges is and has been that there are over 400 000 individuals in the Swedish Enforcement Authority's register. We have a huge over-indebtedness that costs society a lot of money. It is estimated at 30 to 50 billion a year. Personal suffering cannot be measured, and in the wake of tangled economy and over-indebtedness there are many other problems, such as sleep difficulties, stress and mental illness. The Moderates believe that more reforms are needed in this area. I am convinced that consumer policy, like many other policies, should be about creating better opportunities and conditions for people to make the best choices themselves. This requires a policy that is quick to adapt to new conditions. This applies in particular to consumer policy, which often involves new technologies and new markets. Often there is no time for legislation. We also have a globalised world of cross-border trade, where we face new major challenges. For the Moderates and the Alliance, the best objective of consumer policy is that consumers have the power and the ability to make active choices. Based on this, strategies need to be developed to create a high level of consumer protection that gives consumers the best opportunities to take advantage of their rights and be an active consumer. I think that is the best way to achieve the best possible level of consumer protection. The government's consumer targets have now received a content – last year it was quite empty – and that's pretty much it. But last year there was a strategy on over-indebtedness that the Government highlighted. I said in that debate that I thought it was good, but now I have to say that this has disappeared during the year. This budget is lacking a great deal. It is important to increase supervision, lift the work of consumer advisors, increase the work of budget and debt advisors and lift Hello consumer, as several have already mentioned. As we know, the consumer is a real success story. Both I and the Government know that, since we last spring were at the same conference, organised by Sweden's consumer advisors, where they showed how successful this initiative has been. You can bet a lot more there. The government's new consumer policy objectives with new content suggest that the authorities now, instead of investing in combating over-indebtedness, will work to ensure that individual consumers consume more sustainably. Almost four pages of the budget are devoted to this, as is the speech by the Government today, but not even half a column is about over-indebtedness. I think this is a wrong priority. That is not because I would in any way be against sustainable consumption. But what I can see is the new data for the Swedish Consumer Agency, with a new forum that has been highlighted by Robert Hannah earlier today. This is going into school work. I'm sure it's good. It's called in the budget for a nudge or a nudge. I think the government used another word. All these things are legitimate, but we have so many other major problems in the consumer market: telecom services, consumer credit, telephone sales, hidden advertising in the media and so on. My view is that our authorities should invest in ensuring that there is proper supervision, regulations and recommendations on these important challenges that we face. In addition, I would like to agree with what Robert Hannah says about these being areas where we actually have many good independent consumer agencies that can do the work: Swedish Consumers, Telekomsvisgarna and, of course, our municipal consumer advisors. The Moderates believe that a number of measures are needed to curb the development of over-indebtedness. These are also areas that are identified annually in the Consumer Report, among others, and which I think we should have invested and focused on. The question of telephone sales has been raised. There has been no proposal on this to Parliament yet, but it has been over 500 days since the investigation came to the government. We believe that a clearer approach is also needed towards unserious telephone sales. There are a great many things that could be raised in a debate like this. I have noted that the government highlights several things that the committee has already worked on, including eco-labelling. That is a good thing, and we received a report on this last spring. We have also received a report on the Real Estate Act. We also had a hearing on social media. There's a lot of good things going on. Mr President, I would like to The policy should focus on making our consumers aware, so that they can make active choices. I just have to finish with a little quote on what has been said here today. It's from William Shakespeare. Words don't pay debt. .....................................................
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1104	Mr President, I would like to I am delighted when I hear Mrs Roswall speak positively about consumer policy and say that measures are needed to make us as consumers feel safe. Unfortunately, it is not the tone I hear from all politicians on the bourgeois side. I think it is absolutely excellent that this policy should take this approach into account. I also believe that this makes it necessary to find common positions and common solutions. On the other hand, I think it is wrong to try to put different policies against each other and say that action in one area will automatically go beyond action in another area. I think that we in the government have shown that we can actively face the problems faced by consumers in the financial markets, for example with over-indebtedness, but at the same time also focus on a problem that many consumers face in their everyday lives, namely that they want to act sustainably but at present find it difficult. As far as over-indebtedness is concerned, it is not true that we are not acting on behalf of the government. We started ambitiously, and we are constantly raising the level of ambition. As Jessika Roswall says, we now come with a debt restructuring law that allows many more to be covered, get help with debt restructuring and get out debt-free. We have developed guidelines for budget and debt counselling that enable them to work more coherently, much more effectively and learn from the best examples. We have a study that we have now produced that has come up with proposals on how to reduce the risks of quick loans, which we know is a very high risk of over-indebtedness, and so on. We will continue to work with that area all the time. As far as telephone sales are concerned, we will make a proposal. I can promise you that right now. It is wrong to say that one cannot work ambitiously with many policy areas. This government has achieved more in two years than the previous government did in eight in the area of consumer policy precisely because we think they are areas of concern. We have high levels of ambition, and we are working intensively on those issues. I can assure you that we will also be doing so for the last two years of our term of office.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1109	Mr President, I would like to I didn't really hear a question. I'll send some back instead. My point with the post is that you have to focus. It's boring when you don't try to focus where the problems are. We have major problems in many consumer areas, and I highlighted several that are also highlighted annually in the Swedish Consumer Agency's report. As the Minister knows, a great many investigations took their time last parliamentary term. We knew far too little about over-indebted people. I'll admit it. Now that we know a lot more, it's time to move on with those steps. Before the debate I surfed around a little on the government website and was a little happy. I need to read out what it says about consumer policy on the government's website: The consumer should have the power and the opportunity to make active choices. That's great, and that's exactly what the Alliance was behind. This requires effective legislation, and so on. I am nevertheless pleased that the Rege ring's website seems to focus on exactly what we in the Alliance say, that is to ensure that consumers have the power and the ability to make active choices. I believe that, above all, provides the greatest opportunity for consumers in the future, regardless of what happens in a globalised market. I wonder why you don't focus on what's on the government's website.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1113	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that there seems to be a consensus that we are actively working on the government's side with, for example, over-indebtedness, which was key to Jessika Roswall's speech earlier. It goes without saying that consumer power is an incredibly important issue for the government. We are showing this not least by highlighting sustainable consumption. It is an area that more and more consumers point out as a very important area when they act in the consumer markets. When we set our goal of well-functioning consumer markets, of course, it is part of their good functioning that we as consumers must feel that we have the opportunity to influence, have the power and the information and support we need to act in the consumer markets. I want to ask a question back to Jessika Roswall. It proposes moving away from the government's objectives, which are well-functioning consumer markets and a socially, environmentally and economically sustainable consumption. In economically sustainable terms, for example, the issue of over-indebtedness is very clear. Then you remove rather than add. It adds nothing, but it removes the area that more and more consumers think is a very important area. It's about how you can act to do your part and do what we can as individuals to contribute to a more sustainable world. It's an area we need to work on every level. This applies internationally and not least in national politics, which we do very actively on the part of the government. But we must also give consumers the tools they want, need and want to be able to act. I do not quite understand why we are so stubborn and anxious to pull sustainability away from the consumer policy objective at all costs when consumers are so clearly moving in a different direction. Why should we not listen to consumers and help them also in terms of sustainable consumption, which they clearly give such a high priority? Why do you want to withdraw and not add to the consumer policy objective?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1120	Mr President, I would like to Why? That's exactly what I thought I was trying to explain, and that's what Robert Hannah was trying to explain. It is about focusing and that the right organs should handle the right things. For me, it is important for our authorities to exercise authority. They should focus on ensuring that we have recommendations and supervision. They will be much better supervised than has been done so far. It is. Then there are independent consumer agencies that can handle this type of nudge, as it says. That is most of all what I think. I would also like to say something about the case. I've said that several times before. I think our goal is broader. It also includes what you want in. That is why I find it difficult to understand the rhetoric. Our goal is to ensure that our consumers, regardless of the market, can make a conscious and active choice. I believe that this is, above all, the most important element in creating conscious and knowledgeable consumers and the best consumer protection. Nevertheless, I would like to send a little more, because I still have speaking time left, about what I think the government should have invested in more and focused on. It's over-indebtedness. Now the Government highlighted several things that they work with. But I haven't seen very good results for budget and debt advisors. Quick loans were mentioned. But why is there no more about invoice payments? There are many different things that remain to be done. I would like to see the focus on over-indebtedness and the focus on the problem areas that exist in the consumer field.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1125	Mr President, I would like to To consume and be a consumer is to buy goods and services. We all are. But can anyone consume what they want, or must they have the right value? If so, who decides what the right value for consumption is? Now that we are going to talk about consumer policy, I was going to highlight something that is rarely talked about. The alliance and the government have developed each of their objectives for consumer policy. There are two different goals that are quite similar. They focus very much on the consumer's choice. For the Alliance, it must have the power and the ability to make active choices, and for the government it must choose environmentally friendly and sustainable. There is often talk in the debate about, and Per Bolund was also involved in the past, that consumer markets should self-regulate. By taking responsibility for their products on the markets themselves and what they sell, we will get rid of what we do not want to see of the type of child labour and destruction of rain forests. The consumer should be able to opt out of such products. When it works, it's usually fantastically good. One thing that has started to emerge more and more in recent years is that some companies choose to take it one step further and then often encouraged by socialist trade unions. They will also begin to evaluate in their values who they sell to and what values they believe their customers have. Then we begin to be on a very dangerous road. Now I am not talking about companies such as the 24-hour-open hamburger restaurant that got an inn. Of course, it must be possible to remove such persons. I am also not talking about consumers who have misbehaved or who do not want to pay for themselves. Then, of course, companies must be able to act. I am talking about ordinary customers that the company claims not to want solely because of the customer's political convictions. Jenny Bengtsson is Chairman of the Hotel and Restaurant Union's largest department, Section Stockholm- Gotland. She described it as: It is anything but fun and even unpleasant for the staff of a hotel to have to take care of Swedish democratic guests. She also thought it would be reasonable for the staff to choose if they wanted to work when there were Swedish democrats at the hotel. It could hardly have been said more clearly. Swedish democrats are not welcome in hotels or restaurants where Jennys's trade unions in any way have a say. According to the latest survey from Sentio, which is the public opinion institute that has best scored the election results for 2014 for all parties, and also what has best scored for the Swedish Democrats, although it was somewhat low in relation to what we really got, the Swedish Democrats today have about 25 per cent of the electorate behind them. This means that it is about one in four voters, and thus also one in four potential guests, that Jenny Bengtsson wants to close out from restaurants and hotels. That's what happens if she and her union get what they want. At the same time, this trade union wants all hotels and restaurants to sign agreements with them and thus gain influence everywhere. In addition, it is highly likely that a large part of the members of the Hotel and Restaurant Union themselves will vote for the Swedish Democrats. If you work in the hotel and restaurant industry, you should be able to do your job, regardless of what you think about the customer's political opinion. The consumer of services should be able to demand this. Mr President, I would like to It is not just from hotels and restaurants that there is a desire to exclude people with the wrong values. From the beginning, I was going to make a list of all industries and companies that said they didn't want people voting for the wrong party as customers. However, I was rather quick to say that the six minutes I have at my disposal would not be enough to read the whole list. Companies that shut people out because of their party political sympathies exist in all industries. Apparently, party sympathies are important, not only in terms of which hotel you can stay in, but also what food you should eat, which shoe shop you should choose, what training you have to go to, which taxi company you should choose and which bank you can choose. Yes, even a wax painting course in Mullsjö does not go by itself if you think wrong. Mr President, I would like to This may seem like a minor consumer problem. There are other places to go. Yes, there is, if you live in Stockholm. It's not as easy if you come from a small town and the only grocery store explains that customers from a particular party are not welcome. Nor do I believe that this is the kind of society that we want. I am not saying this in order for someone to feel sorry for me or for Swedish democrats in general. I myself come from Örkelljunga, and I think it is much more difficult to say that you are an environmental party than to say that you are a Swedish democrat, which is the norm in that village. However, I hope I never ever need to hear that environmentalists would not be welcome as consumers in the village shop or the village restaurant. Our society must be more tolerant than that.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1137	Mr President, I would like to This will be the first time I agree with the Swedish Democrats. The fact is, there is no arguing. It is totally unacceptable that someone should be banned because it has the wrong political opinion. I don't want that to happen. On the other hand, one might add that this does not belong to the objective of consumer policy and falls outside the scope of this debate. It could also be added that when we talk about values, there is every reason to ensure that we do not discriminate against anyone because of its political opinion. It is, moreover, something that our constitution and human rights back up.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1139	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Tuve Skånberg! I believe that this is definitely within what we are discussing because we are talking about the consumer policy objective. Our whole reservation is that there should be more to the consumer policy objective. Then perhaps we should also include things such as not to discriminate against people on the basis of what they happen to have political views. I know that in a previous debate here with the Left Party, Tuve Skånberg called my party extremely. I am convinced that when one looks back in the future at what happened in the early 2000s or the end of the 1990s, it will not be the Swedish Democrats who are designated as extreme, but all those parties who think it is more logical to help the people who can cross the world than to move the aid and resources to where the people are. I think it is these parties that will in future be regarded as extreme, those that gave priority to the small number over the large number.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1141	Mr President, I would like to The problem with prophesying about the future is that it is difficult. I can't tell you what the future will be like. But it goes without saying that no human being should be discriminated against because of his political convictions.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1142	Mr President, I would like to I can't help but agree with Tuve Skånberg. Precisely because it is difficult to see the future and say how one will look at the actions of the different parties, perhaps one should be a little more careful from different parties to paint a particular party as extreme and terrible and use invectives that do not belong in the debate. But I basically agree with Tuve Skånberg about what he said in his last line.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1144	Mr President, I would like to Members! In autumn 2015, the Swedish Parliament approved a new consumer policy target for consumer policy in Sweden: ..................................................... Now the bourgeois parties want to return to the former goal, which I think is much narrower. This would be very unfortunate because the current objective better responds to the reality of today's consumers with an increasingly complex market that is rapidly changing. What is most remarkable, however, is that the bourgeois parties want to remove the wording on sustainability and the environment in the description of their objectives. The world faces enormous challenges. Climate change is ongoing, and we see reports almost every day. Many of the major environmental problems are linked to our consumption and production patterns. We simply need to start consuming and producing more sustainable and environmentally smart in the future if this planet is to survive. It's possible, but it's hard to handle on your own. In this context, the whole of society needs to be helped, and an overall objective of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption is needed. Today's consumption is far from sustainable. For example, we could consume more vegetables and vegetable products and less meat, especially imported meat where animals have received large amounts of antibiotics. We should eat more Swedish, locally grown and organically grown food. We must substantially reduce our consumption of fossil fuels and instead use more renewable and green energy. We need to make our homes more environmentally smart, to mention some important areas where it actually matters what and how we consume. Many consumers want to act sustainably and contribute to a better environment. We see an increase in the consumption of organic and environmentally friendly products, but it is not easy as a consumer to choose the right and do the right thing. Nor can we shift the whole responsibility to the individual consumer. If we want to see a real change, we need to find common societal solutions. Against this background, it is positive that the Swedish Consumer Agency is now receiving an increase in funding to promote environmentally more sustainable consumption. It will not solve all the problems, but it is an important step in the right direction. The initiative is part of the strategy for sustainable consumption presented by the government in connection with the bill, which has been negotiated with the Left Party. According to the proposal, the Swedish Consumer Agency will be tasked with setting up a forum for environmentally smart consumption in collaboration with other relevant authorities and stakeholders in society. Research is already under way. Companies and organisations are working to find solutions for sustainable consumption. But more knowledge and cooperation is needed to make it easier for consumers and businesses to drive sustainable development forward, and that also requires better and clearer policy instruments. In this context, it is also important to support and develop cooperation with civil society and, in particular, those organisations that represent the interests of consumers. Environmentally sustainable consumption requires strong and knowledgeable consumers who are given the opportunity to act together. Despite the high level of consumer protection, consumers are constantly at a disadvantage. Today, consumers are exposed to high consumer pressure through various forms of marketing. Resourcing consumers are better placed, but far from all are resourceful consumers. More technologically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer many opportunities, but also pose major challenges for consumers. Against this background, I believe that it was wise for the government to set up the national consumer service Hello consumer, where consumers can call free of charge for support and assistance. The service has been greatly appreciated, as we have heard earlier in the debate. Unfortunately, there is a reverse with the establishment of Hello consumer. Indications show that several municipalities have taken the establishment of Hallå konsument as a pretext for closing down municipal consumer guidance, which of course was not the idea. The national guidance can never replace the support provided by municipal activities through its direct support to consumers. Local guides have knowledge of the local situation and provide specialised support in a number of areas. Sometimes there is no consumer advisor at the local level. I believe that consumers must be guaranteed the same support throughout the country. I therefore hope that in future it will be a mandatory obligation for municipalities to provide consumer guidance. It is also clear that there is a need for stronger protection in connection with telephone sales. In recent years, problems arising in connection with telephone sales have increased, according to the Swedish Consumer Agency, municipal onsument advisors and Sweden's K onsumenter. It is about everything from strong irritation at being disturbed to pure fraud. A written agreement would significantly strengthen consumer protection. I hope that this will come in the near future. I'll finish there. I was not quite ready, but my speaking time has run out.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1155	Mr President, I would like to I have only one small question about the new goal, which the government and the Left Party support. We heard earlier in a change of line between the Government and Robert Hannah that it was not in any way meant that the new goal would mean making recommendations on what the consumer should eat. Now we heard Lotta Johnsson Fornarve tell us that it is precisely the d et that is included. What is meant by the new goal? What is Lotta Johnsson Fornarve referring to?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1156	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessika Roswall, for the question! Of course, we shouldn't tell people exactly what to eat. I just gave examples of different areas where we could do things that would mean something when it comes to achieving more sustainable and environmental consumption. Many people want to act more sustainably and contribute to a better environment. But it is difficult as a consumer today to know how to do and what to do. It is therefore a good thing that the Swedish Consumer Agency has the extra resources and that it has to establish this forum so that it can coordinate and inform in a better way. That is exactly what consumers need, I believe, in order to be able to take the step and become more environmentally friendly and to act more sustainably in the future.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1158	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like we're largely in agreement. That's why I don't understand. I have the same question I had before. Why should we not focus on making our consumers good and aware so that they – or all of us – are able to make the difficult choices? I fully share the view that it should be easy to do the right thing. But the goal that we in the Alliance have is precisely what puts our finger on how to become a smart consumer and how to make real, sensible and active choices. I would like to ask again: what would be better for the consumer? How can you become this conscious consumer with the new target?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1160	Mr President, I would like to It is nice that we are at least partly in agreement on this issue. Of course, we must support individual consumers and, above all, consumer organisations so that we can have these strong consumers who can work together. But we must also try to provide consumers with tools, support and help. It is quite clear that this is needed. Therefore, I think it is very good that the Swedish Consumer Agency now has these new opportunities. It is a question of trying to coordinate authorities, researchers, local and civil society so that we can have a stronger level of consumer protection. It may be easier for consumers to trade both sustainably and environmentally in the future. I think it is absolutely necessary if we are to meet the major environmental challenges that we are facing. We simply need to start buying more consumer smart and also produce more consumer smart in the future.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1162	Mr President, I would like to Today there has been a very important and fundamental debate in Parliament on one of the major problems we see with the EU. Working conditions are being dumped, particularly in the field of transport. Both in the taxi industry and in the haulage industry, we see healthy companies being knocked out because of the deterioration in the labour market and the wild west that we are now seeing. It is very sad that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Finance, have chosen to reject the proposal for a collective agreement in public procurement. If the change of rules had gone through, we would now have better put the Swedish labour market in order. However, the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which we are now debating, proposes improvements in the procurement of public transport services. These include the application of concessions in the procurement of public transport services and better environmental requirements in the procurement of cars and certain public transport services. That's a good thing. It has been said that it will strengthen workers' rights in the event of a change of entrepreneur. However, in order to further strengthen workers' rights, the Left Party wants to see a bill that is about guaranteeing workers' rights precisely in the event of business transitions. There have been many cases where a new entrepreneur has won a public transport contract in a county and this has subsequently led to all the employees of the former entrepreneur having been made redundant on grounds of lack of employment. This, in turn, means that the new entrepreneur has no obligation to take over the staff. As a result, employees have been repeatedly forced to re-apply their services without any guarantee of a new job. This is unacceptable in many ways. Although many of the employees are usually offered jobs by the new entrepreneur, they can just select who is allowed to continue working. This can be done without regard to the rules of rotation in force. As a result, employees in publicly procured activities lose in practice the employment security to which they are entitled under the Employment Protection Act. The rules of order and the right to re-employment are intended to protect workers. This protection is particularly important for older workers. In today's situation, you are often rewarded as an employee when you are young and strong and run fast at work. The window for how you can be in society and what characteristics you can have in the labour market has been narrowed in. As the neoliberals say without perhaps thinking about this ideology they live by: You should have easy learning, but you don't need to have much knowledge. In this way of thinking, we are removing the professional pride of people, and we need, above all, the skills of older people in the world of work. We need a working life for everyone. This procedure whereby new employees in the event of a change of entrepreneur are at risk of not being re-employed also affects trade union representatives, safety representatives and employees who use their legal right to be absent due, for example, to political missions. It is very important not to undermine the protection for this very moment, precisely now that employers have moved their positions to the limit of absurdity. We need stronger protection for labour law in particular, and we need to strengthen that fight to rebalance the labour market. It is not least evident from the quality of public services and the structure of society, which has been increasingly eroded in recent years, that there is a lack of balance. There is a clear risk that employees in procured public transport activities will be afraid to take on trade union or political assignments or otherwise risk considering so uncomfortable by the employer as this could lead to their losing their job in the next procurement. Despite the improved protection that we now see for the worker in the event of a change of entrepreneur, I would nevertheless like to endorse our reservation to further strengthen the protection. In labour law in particular, i.e. the Employment Protection Act, LAS, the Labour Participation Act, MBL, and the Public Procurement Act, we want to strengthen protection against arbitrary dismissals when changing entrepreneurs in connection with public transport procurement. The day before yesterday on the news it was reported how difficult it is in several regions to hire new bus drivers and train drivers, much because of retirement. Several departures have been cancelled recently, including on trains in Bergslagen. This difficulty in recruiting new bus drivers and train drivers also makes it difficult to achieve the doubling target in public transport. If it is to be attractive to work as a train driver and bus driver, we must strengthen the protection of the worker in the event of a change of entrepreneur and ensure that trade union representatives and safety representatives can constantly work towards a better working environment and re-establish a better balance between employers and employees.
i-94EkvrBkSCkgG9mfB46jvX	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with changes to the Public Transport Act, the Public Procurement Act, the Act on Procurement in the Supply Sector and the Act on Procurement of Concessions. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. In fact, the committee's proposal is not particularly strange; rather, it is adaptations of Swedish legislation in relation to three new directives which the European Parliament dealt with in 2014. It is the adaptation and updating of our existing regulatory framework as a consequence of a number of new EU rules in order to stimulate growth and foster confidence in the internal market. Taking it out of context, neither the proposal on which the proposal is based nor the committee's proposal is a kiosk roller, but rather a formal one. We are modernising and adapting our legislation in relation to the rest of Europe. On the whole, we agree in the Committee on Transport, from right to left. Mr President, I would like to Today is a day of shame. In today's vote, Parliament voted in the framework of the Finance Committee's report 7 against special conditions of labour law. If you look at public transport legislation from an overall perspective, you can see that they are not enough. There is a real need for comprehensive changes in order to get the Swedish labour market in order and to create the right conditions. The debate this morning has clearly shown the differences in Swedish politics and in the view of the Swedish model. Each year, the public sector procures approximately SEK 600 billion. Of course, an important part of this amount concerns public transport. Today, Swedish public procurement contributes to social dumping. We see this clearly in professional traffic. We see it with the same clarity in the taxi industry, and we see it in the construction industry. The fact that Swedish procurement today not only allows but also contributes to low-wage competition and wage dumping makes me as a Member of Parliament ashamed. I am ashamed of employees and serious companies who want to be able to do the right thing, because the situation in the Swedish labour market is unsustainable. Since the Saltsjöbad agreement was concluded in 1938, the Swedish model has been based on a consensus between the social partners. That is a consensus that still exists today. It is not the serious employers and the orderly companies who join the Swedish Democrats and the right-wing parties in today's vote, but, on the contrary, those who want to compete with low wages, those who do not care about workers' conditions or about social dumping. It is the obviously rogue that a majority in the Swedish Parliament today supports. They are the ones who only put the profit first – profit without responsibility. Mr President, I would like to It is only a matter of time before we see the same effects in the context of public transport contracts that we see for those in the taxi industry, for truck drivers and construction workers. It is a matter of time before conductors, sailors and subway drivers face similar situations. The government's proposal for a new regulatory framework for public procurement was also quite modest. Personally, I think you could have gone further. But on the basis that the government wanted a broad majority, they were modest. Despite this, the right-wing parties and the Swedish Democrats choose to stop the proposal. They choose to let ideological dogmatism go first instead of defending the Swedish model that has made our country one of the world's most equal countries. Mr President, I would like to I say ideological dogmatism, because the alternative would be worse. Not ending up behind Swedish employees and serious Swedish companies because they want many retweets and likes in social media do not at least think I befit the Swedish parliament. Today is a day of shame and anger for wage earners in our country who want a salary that they can live on and for those serious companies that want to do their own thing but who stand bare in the face of the rogue competition we are seeing today in the Swedish labour market. I can only hope that the voters will see through how the right-wing alliance and the Swedish democrats are running the cases of the rogue actors who do not want to contribute to the order of the Swedish labour market. I will do what I can because today's vote also has an effect both in opinion and in the next election. Today, Mr President, I am angry. But neither I nor we Social Democrats will give up. The fight for fair conditions on the Swedish labour market has only just begun!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1188	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the opportunity to talk about report TU5. It may be worth drawing Members' attention to the fact that it is precisely the TU5 and not the FIU7 report we are dealing with at the moment. I do not think that everyone really appreciates the need for the bill and the report that has been presented. These are parts of the procurement of public transport services and perhaps the components of creating a better relationship between commercial traffic on the one hand and procured traffic on the other, in order to ensure good traffic opportunities on routes which are currently mainly operated by commercial operators but where society needs to increase traffic. I cannot stress enough the need for this legislation, which is apparently to come into place, also to be handled with care and responsibility by the contracting authorities. It is a major responsibility to make direct procurements worth EUR 7 1⁄2 million per year. It is a large sum, and it should not be handled lightly. This opportunity must be used to create a better approach to the market and not to crowd out commercial companies or operators providing services that do not currently cost tax money. That is the important feature of the bill presented by the government and the report presented by the committee. The Alliance parties have a special opinion in the report. We set out in the opinion our approach to the fact that this proposal contains references to certain points of intersection to the proposal that fell in some parts earlier today. As there is no part of this bill that is covered by our objections that were voted on earlier today, there will be no reservation, but a separate opinion. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1194	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Constitutional Committee's part of the state budget, which consists of category 1 Kingdom government. The area concerns the financing of central government, several important authorities, state subsidies and missions. In the area of expenditure, we moderates make different priorities from those of the government. I want to highlight some of them. We want to increase the grant for the parliamentary investigation service by SEK 5 million. For those who listen and watch, I can say that the parliamentary investigation service consists of very competent officials in the administration who give us members of parliament the opportunity to conduct independent reviews of various social events but perhaps mainly of the government's various proposals. Since this government no longer presents the effects of its policies in a manner that would be desirable, as the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Swedish National Audit Office have also criticised, this instrument has become even more important. Furthermore, we moderates want to increase the allocation to the Chancellor of Justice in order to strengthen the role of the State's representative in various legal disputes. We also want to give priority to the Swedish Data Protection Authority's mission to combat privacy violations, mainly in the area of online hate speech, which is why the agency is added 2 million. The Moderates also want to increase funding in the field of measures for national minorities to enable more municipalities to join the Meänkieli, Sami and Finnish administrative areas. The importance of being able to speak one's language in contact with the authorities, in preschool and in the care of the elderly has been very clear in the meetings we have had with representatives of our minorities. It works more or less well in those municipalities that have already taken on this responsibility and are receiving state subsidies. But it should not in itself prevent more municipalities from joining, but it is a will to be affirmed. On this theme, we are also presenting moderates in our option that part of the increased allocation of 30 million for actions for the national minority Roma should go to the establishment of a Roma language centre. Mr President, I would like to The plan we Moderates have expressed for a stronger Sweden includes the work of creating a safer society. In this context, I would like to highlight what we might put most strongly behind in our option. The concerns that many people feel and express about the threats we see to the free, open and democratic society that Sweden represents can surely not escape anyone. Fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law, individual freedom, mutual respect and tolerance towards people with other beliefs and beliefs are challenged by violent and extremist movements. Threats to officials, threats to journalists, threats to people's representatives and threats to individual citizens challenge this openness and defy the rules of democracy. These forces must not stand unresponsive. Then support for democratic values and the structure of our society will fail, and scepticism and insecurity will increase. Security must be assured throughout our country. Our democratic rights and freedoms should be self-evident if you live in the countryside, in the suburbs or in the inner city. This is not entirely the case. With the help of preventive work, we want to safeguard democracy in the work against violent extremism, and we therefore propose increased resources. We are spending 30 million more than the government on the budget for General Elections and Democracy, and I would like to point out some specific measures. In particular, it is important to step up efforts to combat violent extremism. As part of the human rights promotion policy, we want to increase support for democratic values and values of human rights. Among other things, this is about the importance of combating honour-related violence and oppression. The Moderates also propose a drop-off for those who want to leave extremist groups. It is no secret that many of those who come back from, for example, the war in Syria appear as ideals or ascended as a kind of role models of primarily young people. It is therefore important to disseminate knowledge about those who have dropped out precisely because they have distanced themselves from violent extremism and have seen what it really means in terms of brutal abuse. A national communication strategy is needed. There are good examples of this around the world, including in the UK – # notinmyname, which has been built up by Muslims who have distanced themselves from ISIL/ Daish. Mr President, I would like to We also propose, within the framework of human rights policy, a value-based approach to gender inequality, homophobia and honour repression. Mr President, I would like to We are running the government ahead of us in this work. We have previously made proposals for 15 announcements, in which we agree with the Government on 7. A unanimous committee notes that 3 of them are satisfied but 4 remain. The committee therefore makes a unanimous announcement in this respect. We assume that the government will take the initiative in this work.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1206	Mr President, I would like to It is often the case that you tell about what you want. We have now heard good news about which initiatives can come. But I'm also a little curious about the cuts that the Moderates suggest. Above all, I have not quite understood the reduction in the county boards that you propose. In the budget bill, the Government is investing SEK 30 million to speed up building permit management and to be able to get started with a significantly faster construction process. It has also been seen out there that we have been doing this for a long time. Now the Moderates want to reduce the county boards by 92 million. It is explained that 80 million of that money is about precisely the PBL management and the extra investments we make. How long do you go back, and how do you think about the length of the proceedings?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1211	Mr President, I would like to I almost think that Agneta Börjesson answered her own question in a way. We've already seen a change. It is good that these efforts have been made, because planning and building permits management definitely needs to be shortened. This applies not only at national, but also, and above all, at municipal level. And there have been changes. We set other priorities and believe that this will be resolved within the framework. We invest in jobs and entrepreneurship. We make other priorities in the proposal that we have put forward in our party motion. Yes, it is important that these changes continue, but they can be resolved within the current framework.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1214	Mr President, I would like to Within the framework, 30 million is less, not 92 million less. I'm most curious about the other 62 million less in grants to the county boards.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1215	Mr President, I would like to I do not really know what to add to the discussion. We set different priorities within the framework we have. So do the other parties. We are making a few different proposals. We do other priorities on jobs and entrepreneurship. As I said earlier, these changes are positive and have been seen, but they are solved within the funds already allocated.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1216	Mr President, I would like to The alarm bells in our kingdom are ringing. The country's municipalities are alerting. Landsting and regions are alerting. They're alarming me. The National Audit Office is alerting. The Conjuncture Institute is alerting. Our nation's citizens are alerting. The current government is at half-time, and after last autumn's exceptionally large immigration, public spending is increasing to totally unsustainable levels. The Sweden we know today is not the same Sweden we knew a few years ago. The Sweden that we know today is not the Sweden that our children will feel when they grow up. Time never stands still, nor does development. The Swedish Democrats are not trying to stop time. We are not trying to stop the development, but we want the development to go in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to Now that the alarm bells are ringing from every corner of the kingdom, we who are chosen by the people must also listen to the people. The Swedish democrats see that there are huge challenges. We see that the health care, the school and the entire welfare as we know it today are under enormous pressure. But it doesn't stop there. Destructive politics marks its mark everywhere in society. That is why it requires all those who can take responsibility. In this debate, we are discussing the budget for Category 1 Kingdom Board, whose total funding is just over $1 billion divided between several areas. By far the biggest cost is the Government Office. The Swedish Democrats do not share several of the government's priorities, and I would like to take this opportunity to explain the difference in view of some of these. The Government proposes that the Government Office will also receive increased funding this year, this time with more than SEK 280 million, which is justified by, among other things, increased costs for migration work, price and salary increases and building costs. Apparently, it is more important for the government to look at its own house than to set a good example to the various bodies of our society, which almost daily alarm us of how our society and our welfare are deteriorating. The Swedish Democrats believe that the government, which has now received all these alarm reports, should instead set an example. In our budget, we significantly reduce the funding for the Government Office by SEK 350 million for 2017. Mr President, I would like to Another area where we disagree with the government is the pre-financing. The Swedish democrats believe that the pre-aid needs to be reformed. The starting point must be that the media of the future should be able to stand on their own feet to a greater extent than they are today. We are not opposed to the existence of any kind of system to make it easier for the press. However, the aim of this must be to support and promote, with much more precision than is currently the case, local and impartial media, particularly in smaller cities and rural areas where the local media are too much lacking today. In order to facilitate a reduction in pre-financing, we propose improvements in other areas. Among other things, the advertising tax on the daily press and periodical publications should be abolished. Furthermore, the Swedish Democrats want to significantly lower the financial support for ourselves, that is, the eight parties that are sitting here today. There are also several grants where the Swedish Democrats want to invest more than the government. Let me mention some of these. We are in favour of the fact that the government has now reached exactly the same conclusion as the Swedish Democrats that additional funds should be given to the county boards' animal welfare controls. We welcome this but believe that additional resources need to be allocated and thus propose an increase of SEK 30 million for this important purpose, i.e. SEK 5 million more than the government. The Swedish Data Protection Authority, whose purpose is to secure the individual's right to privacy in our society, is also under this spending area in our budget exercise. Issues relating to personal integrity have become highly topical in recent years, and the Swedish Democrats' view is that the issues need to be taken more seriously. In the light of how issues of monitoring, cyber security and online infringements have been raised in recent years, our view is that the Authority needs to be strongly strengthened through increased resources. It is an absolute fact that technological developments, with more people using the Internet in more contexts than before, also lead to a significant increase in the risk of individuals being affected by the leaking of sensitive personal data. The total amount of data in our society is increasing sharply. In our draft budget, we increase the appropriations for the Swedish Data Protection Authority by 25 million, which in practice means that the agency's budget increases by close to 50% in relation to the Government's proposal. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that, compared with the Government's budget, we are saving more than 609 million for 2017 in this area of expenditure. It is not enough to tackle all the societal challenges this country is facing, but that is what we believe we can do here and now in the area for which we are responsible – and that is far more than the government is doing. I would also like to say that we will therefore refrain from taking part in the decision.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1238	Mr President, I would like to In the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats in the report we have to consider, there is one thing I would like to ask Jonas Millard about. During the grant 3:1 Sametinget, the Swedish Democrats propose an increase of SEK 5 million. The allocation 7:2 Measures for the national minority Roma, on the other hand, is intended to reduce by SEK 14 1⁄2 million. I want to hear a little bit about why.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1240	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annicka, for the question! The Swedish Democrats have previously invested more money in the Sameting. We see that there is a need to do so. As far as minority policy is concerned, we have been able to look for ourselves. We have been on study visits up there, we have looked and studied and talked to the people who are there. We see that there are many inherent imbalances among minorities. I believe that this is a major issue on which we should focus, raise and discuss in order to find some form of common solution. I also think that the initiative that Annicka is now taking up is an initiative with a great ethnic character, and one that I do not think we should do in this area.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1243	Mr President, I would like to There's maybe c lo u n. In fact, the opinion states that it is unfortunate that an individual initiative has such a clear ethnic character to invest in the national minority of Roma. But what is the second bet? Is it not really the case that the Swedish Democrats make a difference to ethnicity, even though everyone is a Swedish citizen?
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1244	Mr President, I would like to The Sami have a special position in Sweden as an indigenous people, and I also think Annicka is aware of that. Of course, we set different priorities. We believe that there is a need for reinforcement to the Sameting, and we also reinforce it more than the government does. We think that this is a perfectly reasonable effort.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1245	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party's draft budget for the Kingdom government expenditure area is about $1.9 billion. That is about 0.3 billion lower than the government's proposal. The Center Party wants greater financial responsibility when we look at the state budget as a whole. As we see it, fiscal policy must, in good times, create shelters in the face of a future downturn in the economy. Instead of doing so, however, the current government has chosen to let public finances go with deficits for next year. Instead, the Centre Party is proposing a budget that is already in balance next year and that reaches surpluses in the following years. We save about 11 billion more in the Center Party's draft budget than the government does in terms of the total budget for 2017. Despite the boom, the gap between domestic and foreign born work and between the high and the low-skilled is growing. More simple jobs need to be created; it is of course important for more people to get to work. Not least, it is important to quickly integrate the many new arrivals, and this requires a reduction in taxes on hiring. Reforms are also needed in order to ensure security throughout the country. That's why we need more cops. There is a need for crime prevention work that does not divide the country. In addition, the local government sector needs to be strengthened. We therefore need more investment for jobs and companies that will allow more localities to get these jobs. We in the Center Party believe that we must regain the leadership of the green transition. Sweden's climate emissions have stopped reducing, and this means that powerful instruments are now required to get back the positive development we previously had but have actually lost the last year. We want there to be environmental taxes to help us create a green tax shift. We mean that we should create this now, when it's booming. We have a unique opportunity to use it to broaden growth and broaden job creation to more locations. What we have seen is that the government has not been able to cope with these challenges. As we in the Center Party have said, a new leadership is needed. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Finance has agreed that the Riksdag should support the Government's proposals for expenditure frameworks, the calculation of the State's revenue and the focus on budgetary policy. We believe that the draft budget of the opposition parties and the government in the budget process should be set against each other as a whole and decided in two stages. So we want it to be a coherent package. Since, in the first step that has taken place, Parliament has supported the Government's proposal for a financial framework for the state budget and the direction of budgetary policy, the Center Party is now not taking part in the current decision on the distribution of appropriations in Category 1. Instead, I refer to a specific opinion in the Constitutional Committee, in which we expressed our views on the government's, the parliamentary board's and the JO's draft budget. We refer here to the Center Party motion 2016/ 17:3411. In the rest, however, the Center Party supports the committee's proposal.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1254	Mr President, I would like to I will remain at the county boards and the money that the government now wants to invest in speeding up planning and construction matters. The Center Party writes in its budgetary policy motion that instead of the additional 30 million that the government wants to invest, it wants to reduce by an extra 72 million and that this should be done through regulatory simplifications. Then I just wonder which regulatory simplifications can go through so quickly that you get a quick building permit management and do not threaten the construction during the next period. I can imagine that much of it is more in the interests of the Civil Committee, but you still need to explain some of the reductions that are being made in the Civil Committee. I do not see it so clearly in your letter.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1256	Mr President, I would like to I have been in this House this afternoon listening to the debate of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, and there is no doubt that many are calling for regulatory changes. However, in order to get pressure on this, there must also be an economic requirement. Unfortunately, as long as you don't have it, nothing will happen. That's the concern.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1257	Mr President, I would like to Since 2013, the government has been investing extra in faster building permits management, and it has also been. So the question is whether it would really be faster if you withdrew so much money from those particular departments. We'll see about that!
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1258	Mr President, I would like to After all, regulatory changes are needed not only in the state sphere but also on the municipal side to facilitate this. We see that there is a need for pressure for regulatory change to take place, and it must be demonstrated economically that it wants change.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1259	Mr President, I would like to So, as has been said, we are discussing the Constitutional Committee's report No 1, which deals with category 1 Kingdom government. As PerPer-Ingvar Johnsson raised, it is therefore a small part of the entire state budget that is on our table. We are obviously behind the whole budget; we have negotiated it with the government. It is a budget that invests in the construction of society for more jobs, better school outcomes, faster climate change and stronger welfare. It is a good budget with good conditions for a sustainable society, where no one is left behind or held back. We have no different opinion of the budget. However, in dealing with the budget, we are also talking about some requests for exercise submitted during the general period of exercise, and I would like to dwell on that in this small speech. We have a reservation about the need for greater transparency of the court's finances. Some have contacted me and find it very strange that I as a Republican can stand behind a budget where we actually raise the grant to the court. And that's the way to think. But it is in fact a general list of price and wage increases to all government agencies, including the court. There are other parties that have proposed not to list fully to state authorities. Of course, that's what you can do. It will be a saving that is smeared out whether it is a good saving or not on the authorities affected. There is also the Court of Justice here, and so there is less money for the Court of Justice in these draft budgets. We think it is reasonable that you can go in and look in all the authorities and see if it is a saving that is possible. Should we pull down a lot here? Shall we hang up here? What are we going to do with the money we have? We can do that in all the authorities we have in mind, but we can't do it with the court. We wish, with our reservation, that we should vote in favour of a motion which says that we should have a clear view of the finances of the court. Then we can also gain a good knowledge of the activities that are there. The Head of State has certain tasks. They're specified. This would make it possible to look at how they are carried out. Are they effective? Is it a business that lives up to what you're supposed to do? In this way we can see whether it is reasonable to reduce or whether it is reasonable to increase. Personally, of course, I think that we should move forward with abolishing the monarchy and introducing another form of government. But that is something we have to deal with in another report, which discusses the state of affairs. In this context, I think it is reasonable to follow normal budgetary principles. We're counting on price and salary compensation. I think that's good. I also think that all the authorities should be transparent so that adjustments can be made according to the needs that exist. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 1.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1267	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is fantastic, but we are facing quite major challenges in the future if it is to be fantastic for everyone who lives in this country. Too many people are outside the labour market. A large proportion of students leave school without full grades. There are major shortcomings in healthcare and care. Migration and integration challenges are growing. Environmental and climate challenges are also growing. The war in Syria and the IS presence in the region have terrible consequences – consequences that we can barely absorb every day – for society and the people there. Our firm assurance of solidarity in the greatest refugee disaster since the Second World War only underlines the need to look after public finances. Liberals are therefore presenting a budget of reforms for the future. We invest in better knowledge in school, better opportunities for companies to hire and a defence with the capacity to defend Sweden. In addition, we present an integration plan based on equal parts of humanism and realism, which counteracts parallel societies and honour violence. Our draft budget is a whole. We therefore choose not to participate in the decision on the allocation of appropriations under Category 1. As far as the other parts are concerned, we support the committee's proposal. Some of the most important points on which we deviate from the government's view on the budget are recurring from last year's budget, so please excuse me if I sound somewhat repetitive to those who remember the debate at that time. These are areas that are particularly close to the heart of a liberal. One of the citizens' strongest watchdogs is the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, JO. Therefore, we believe that the grant should be SEK 5 million higher for 2017 than the Government's proposal. We have taken note of the official story, and we see that complaints and questions are constantly coming in from the citizens – who are justified. That is why this authority should also have an increased budget. The appropriation relating to general elections and democracy should also be SEK 5 million higher. Government contributions to preventive activities in civil society and municipalities against violent extremism should be increased, as we have heard creditably debated here in the past. It is perhaps one of society's biggest challenges we face if we want a cohesive Sweden. The Swedish Data Protection Authority, our ultimate protection of privacy, should also receive increased funding of SEK 10 million for 2017. The difference in relation to the Government's proposal is due to the fact that the Authority simply needs increased resources to improve its ability to conduct active supervision. Measures for national minorities should be increased by SEK 10 billion. More municipalities need to be able to become part of the administrative areas of Meänkieli, Sami and Finnish if we are to stay together on equal terms. The allocation for measures for the national minority Roma should also be increased. Romes have been, or should have been, part of Swedish society for 500 years and more. Today we are still seeing discrimination that is astounding in a modern democratic country like Sweden. It is clear that there is a need for continued and long-term work here, and that is why the Liberals want to invest further in this area.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1277	Mr President, I would like to The economic policy of the Christian Democrats is based on the realization that neither the individual nor the collective in itself are sufficient starting points for a good construction of society. We Christian Democrats, of course, see the importance of safeguarding the individual's rights and freedoms. But man is not by nature a loner who thrives best in isolation. We need contexts and relationships in order for life to be valuable. It is in the small communities, in the contexts and collectives to which we belong, that we can grow as individuals. For us, a family, a circle of friends, a community in working life, community life and congregational life, as well as participation in social life, are inalienable parts of how we create good lives for ourselves and our fellow human beings. However, the collectives we belong to never determine our human dignity. We are therefore opposed to any group thinking and division of people according to gender, class, age or ethnic background. To the extent that structures are to be fought – and there are sometimes reasons to do – this should be done on the basis that we all have the same inviolable human dignity but that we are unique as individuals and have the right to make our own choices and define ourselves. Therefore, human dignity and the communities we build are obvious starting points in Christian Democrats' policy. For greater community and confidence in the future, we Christian Democrats want to pursue a policy that creates the conditions for people to build good relationships and feel secure. We want to make it easier for people to move from exclusion to work. We want to create the conditions for good growth and a business environment that stands well in global competition. Strengthening family self-determination and the position of civil society provide a basis for working interpersonal relations. Through a well-functioning economic policy, we can also ensure resources for public welfare, lower taxes for working parents, lower taxes for working seniors and lower taxes on pension income. With thought-out reforms in the labour market and in fiscal policy, we can improve people's ability to leave unemployment and exclusion. Mr President, I would like to This is the main element of the coherent draft budget that we Christian Democrats have presented and which we voted in favour of last week's framework decision. We noted that the majority of the House was of a different opinion and that our proposal for a spending framework for the area of expenditure dealt with by the KU has therefore fallen. In accordance with the established principles of adoption of the budget, we are therefore abstaining from taking part in decisions in the area we are debating today. However, we give a specific opinion setting out the priorities we wish to make. Let me mention something about that. Firstly, we have an ambition to increase the efficiency of the entire government sector. Sweden needs a smaller and more pointed public administration. That is why we are reducing the list of appropriations by just under one third compared with the government. Secondly, we say no to some of the government's appropriations. This applies, among other things, to an increase of 25 million for environmental inspections carried out by county administrative boards, which we believe can be achieved within existing assignments. We also move some of the funds the county administrative boards have received to handle asylum matters back to the Migration Agency, where we believe that the handling belongs. This part also contains a significant reinforcement aimed at shortening the start-up periods for new arrivals. Thirdly, we are increasing the government's contribution to safeguarding democracy and working against violent extremism at both state and municipal level. All in all, we spend 30 million more on this than the government. We are increasing the funding for the Swedish Data Protection Authority to strengthen their efforts to combat online hatred and privacy violations. No one, young or old, should have to face hatred or violations either online or in real life. Mr President, I would like to These are some areas where we believe that the government is doing wrong or too little and where, of course, we would have advocated our own budgetary option as a whole.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1287	Mr President, I would like to A large section of the budget bill on the government of the Reich concerns democracy policy. It is also dealt with by the committee, and here in the debate Annicka Engblom has linked it to it. In its report, the committee makes a somewhat harsh comment on this section. But I would like to follow the comprehensive electoral analysis of democracy reported by the government. Voting turnout increased in the last elections by just over 1 percentage point, but it is fragmented in different respects. It concerns residential areas, gender and education. Our authorities are making various efforts to improve voting turnout. Similarly, popular participation in the elected congregations shows similar differences. Young people, born abroad and others are under-represented. For example, younger Members of Parliament have increased quite a lot in recent decades. The elderly, on the other hand, are under-represented in the composition of the Riksdag. It is we, the parties, who themselves have a great responsibility for this. But it is clear that it also depends on the debate on society. There are various interesting attempts at democracy. There are local resource centres, there is support for people with mental illness to be able to participate in political life and there are local initiatives. For its part, the 2014 democracy inquiry also has various proposals. It also includes awareness-raising measures to combat racism and promote democratic awareness, especially among young people. The government notes that most people in our country are satisfied with how democracy works but, and this is worrying, that the proportion of those who are satisfied has decreased between 2014 and 2015 from 77% to 69%. In terms of confidence in Parliament, it is a similar decrease from 40% to 28%, and in terms of government from 47% to 32%. The government is committed to protecting democracy from violence, threats and hatred in political life. Polarization is dangerous. It can also lead to extremism, and it can lead to threats of violence and violent crime. The government is working on a letter that will come next year which is an action plan against threats and hatred. We welcome this, as well as amendments to the law on the slanderous crime in the Criminal Code. Mr President, I would like to I would like to broaden the perspective by drawing the House's attention to another poll from the University of Gothenburg. There was an article by the authors with Peter Esaiasson at the head of Dagens Nyheter last Saturday. The view of refugee policy governs trust in society. Yes, refugee policy has long polarized citizens. Already before May 2015, there were large differences of trust, researchers write. When the policy was changed in autumn 2015, there were also many who were critical of the refugee policy but remained at their party sympathies. The refugee crisis itself had a relatively small impact on social confidence, the researchers think they can see in their studies. However, it is evident that even among those who have previously been in favour of the current immigration policy, a certain decrease in social confidence is emerging. However, these are rather marginal shifts, but we can see that overall, refugee policy leads to completely different reactions in substance, but also to a problem of social functions and democracy. This research group is now doing its research, and we will see what conclusions they come to later. But it is interesting to see that they are working around what is perhaps the core issues of democracy and society itself. It is about the balance, trust in and in democracy and the balance between conflict and consensus. Both are needed for the legitimacy of democracy. Conflicts can push for vitality, but cooperation means, one might say, that the social treaty is upheld rather than people resorting to threats and hatred and perhaps ultimately also actually violence. I believe, and we believe from the side of our party, that it will be possible to break the falling confidence figures for democracy and society. But it's a big task. We believe that both immigration and integration and the democratic approach in these respects will be final. Mr President, I would like to We look with optimism at the opportunities ahead, but we know that it is a major challenge we face. I would ask you to support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report No 1.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1301	Mr President, I would like to Björn von Sydow spoke a lot about democracy policy, and that is something that is also close to my heart. I think these are urgent and important issues, especially based on the challenges we face – what Björn von Sydow raised here with violent extremism and other things. What surprises me a little bit is that when you read in the budget document that we have before us, you can see that for two years the government is making a rather substantial increase in the appropriations on this budget line and then reducing it drastically for 2019 and 2020. I would like to ask whether Björn von Sydow can clarify why this reduction is being made.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1304	Mr President, I would like to In my view, this is linked to the fact that the question of how the organisation and policy in this respect should take place is the subject of an investigation. There is an investigation in progress that will soon be finalized, and then it will be possible for us to lay down guidelines on policy in the longer term. That is the picture I have of the situation. There is no intention to reduce efforts in real terms.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1306	Mr President, I would like to It was good that we got clarification. When you read the budget documents you get the view from the figures that the government makes a priority over two years and then significantly lower the appropriations. But if I interpret Björn von Sydow correctly today, you have an ambition that this is something that must happen in the long term and that you should invest in for a long time in real figures. I hope the government maintains that in a few years' time it will still have a high budget, as these issues are highly topical to continue working with.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1308	Mr President, I would like to That is the starting point.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1309	Mr President, I would like to We deal with the budget for 2017 and item 1 which covers a total of just over SEK 13 billion, of which just over SEK 10 billion goes to the Government Office and the County Administrative Boards. About 1.5 mil of y'all go to Parliament. The press is getting about 600 million, and the political parties together receive 172 million. The royalcourt receives approximately 140 million. Then these 13 billion other authorities include Samet, the Chancellor of Justice, the Ombudsman for Justice, the Election Authority, Sieps and money for general elections and national minorities. There are a lot of interesting lyrics in our area. Björn von Sydow, in particular, was concerned about the government's interesting ideas about democracy and what we see before us as a result of the big change. It seems not only that we are bringing new Swedes to the country, but also that we are dealing with the conflict between the city and the country. In the cities we see a strongly growing population, and in the country it may not be a shrinking population but often an ageing population. This leads to increasing gaps. It is often in the country that proximity to the state authorities, to public life, does not exist very much. If the only person you meet as a representative of the state authorities is a bully official at any authority for the day – the county administrative board, Försäkringskassan or Arbetsförmedlingen – it is clear that it somehow becomes the image of public society. We'll remember that. In Sweden, confidence in democracy has increased for a number of years. But over the past year we have seen a decline, from 77% to 66%. In parallel, we see, just as Björn von Sydow was aware, that there are many groups – not only politicians but also journalists – who are exposed to threats and hatred to a much greater extent. It's troubling. The government is working on these issues in a number of different areas. This could involve getting local resource centres in the most vulnerable areas and better citizen dialogues. This is about many of the proposals that the Democracy Investigation presented in 2014. I also believe in much of what was presented in the Media investigation. In the future, we will all have to examine what we read much better, both when we sometimes read what journalists have written and sometimes what someone else, whom we do not really know who it is, has written. I think that today there are more PR people than journalists who are employed in Sweden – just one such thing! When it comes to the announcements about violent extremism, it is incredibly good that we have received a lot of texts about it. There's a lot going on. And a lot of things will continue to happen. I feel that we and the Alliance can go hand in hand in that work. It's important work. We have had good cooperation in the work against violent extremism. There is currently a coordinator to sit until the end of the year. We hope to hear about a new coordinator soon. I believe that the issue will come back in the future, not least in letter 75. Let's discuss it a lot more. I have in some lines lifted up the county boards' work. What we are now seeing in terms of a strong increase in construction in Sweden is, of course, not only due to the fact that the county boards have received more resources or that we have a new government. I think a handshake between everyone about putting their mind to it is behind it. The government is doing its thing. The county boards get extra resources. And the municipalities are doing their bit to make things simpler. I think it's important. And that's why I think the money for the county boards is important.
i-d71cb8cc911a083a-1318	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of all the points in the committee's proposal. In this speech, I intend to dwell on the policy of the Sami people. The Sami people, like the indigenous peoples of Sweden, have a special position. Throughout history, the Sami have been subjected to structural racism and discrimination. The Sami are still facing racism. The Sami language and culture have disappeared in whole or in part in many places in Sweden and in Sápmi. The rights of the Sami must be safeguarded and respected. I am therefore pleased that the government is taking the issues of Sami policy seriously and that it has taken several steps to drive progress in the right direction. An important part of this work is the work on a Nordic Sami Convention, the purpose of which is to confirm and strengthen the rights of the Sami people to preserve, exercise and develop their culture, language and social life. The government is working to complete the negotiations. Of course, Sametinget has also participated in the work, on the same terms as the states involved. In order to prepare the work on the convention, the government has also commissioned Marianne Eliasson to investigate what ratification of the Nordic Sami Convention would mean for Sweden. I look forward to success in that work. The government is also working to solve the cross-border problem of reindeer husbandry. Another important part of strengthening Sami self-determination and the Sami influence is that the government continues its work on introducing a consultation system. We all know that psychosocial ill-health exists in a larger proportion of the Sami population than the Swedish population as a whole. This is, of course, worrying. Therefore, it is good and necessary that the government continues to work with an increased level of ambition to promote the opportunities of the Sami people to maintain and develop their own cultural and community life, their right to self-determination and a Sami society with faith in the future. The government will also continue to work towards the ratification of ILO Convention 169, as Sweden has announced to the UN Human Rights Council. Finally, it will also be a matter for the Swedish parliament. Next year, there'll be elections to the Sameting. The Government therefore intends to provide special funds for the implementation of that election in 2017.
