i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1	Madam President, I would like It is always an honour to speak on its first report in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have now loaded up two hours of committee meeting before this, so we feel alert and happy about the debate! I support the committee's proposal in the report, except for paragraphs 1 and 3, in which I support reservations 1 and 8. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but we are not in favour of everyone. This is a matter of motion, I can tell those who listen to the debate. It's a lot about renewable energy and energy efficiency, nuclear power, taxes on impact, and some other things. The electricity is interesting. It's not very old. In the late 1800s, a lot of things began to happen, such as Edison's light bulb. But what not many people know – neither do I until I started reading – is that Jonas Wenström, subject to the pronunciation of the last name, was close to coming first with the bulb. What he first came up with, however, was the three-phase. There were problems with the transmission of electricity with direct current, when there was a large loss of power. This Jonas then founded a company that later became Asea, now ABB. So we have a lot of roots in this. What's a little extra interesting for a Dalman is that the first three-phase management that was built went from Hällsjön to Grängesberg in Dalarna. It feels a little extra that Dalarna has once again been involved and in one way or another led the development. Four miles, that's it. We have Wenströmska high school, there is an old man called the three-phase man in Örebro and there is a road in Finspång. So there are a number of remaining memories of this engineer, who passed away far too soon. I think he was only 38 years old. Let's talk about today's problems, too. We all know that electricity has been important for our development and for our prosperity. There are many good engineers who in various ways have ensured that we have had this development. We have a basic industry that has depended on electrical power. In the past, hydroelectric power was what was taken from it, but by being able to move the power of electricity lines, it was also possible to start to ensure that industries and the like came about elsewhere. Today we have low energy prices. If we start backing back, I don't think there's anyone who would think it would look like that today. This is, of course, partly due to a recession and partly due to the fact that we have added energy. I will come back to that, Madam President. You can think a little about expressions in Stockholm such as afterwork, caplatte and the like. We in the countryside are still talking about the forest, ore, iron and steel. We know its significance. I think it is important that we establish that the basic industry in Sweden is important for our welfare. There is every reason in the world to make sure in various ways that we can preserve it through knowledge and by having skilled engineers. However, we must also ensure that we have electricity that will enable us to be competitive. I think the word competitiveness is important. There are a lot of question marks here. There's an Energy Commission that's working on the issues. I'm not part of it, so maybe I can take some more turns. Then I'll see if Lars Helmered looks a little naughty at me and thinks it goes too far; then he'll have to fix it. There is a big problem that we Moderates see, and there we have made a play. This is about the impact tax, which we want to reduce. We should be honest and say that when it was good times and high electricity prices we raised it. Then there were good profits. We see that this margin does not exist now. If you look at the cost of electricity, take a spot price of 28.8 öre and compare it with wind power, you get an electricity certificate, if you now have wind power, of 17 öre. These are figures from 2014. The only tax you have then is a property tax of 0.4 øre per kilowatt. This gives a net to those who have wind power of 45, 4 øre per kilowatt. However, if you have nuclear power and the same spot price, there is no topside, but there is only property tax of 0.3 öre, nuclear waste tax of 4 öre and impact tax of 7.5 öre. It gives a net of only 17 cents to the holder. Government Vattenfall has also made it extremely clear that this needs to be reviewed. The question is urgent. This is something that has led us Moderates to make a move and to say that it must be reduced to an effect tax. Otherwise, there is a great risk that our nuclear power plants, which are obliged to increase their safety, will not implement these investment decisions. If we theoretically shut down nuclear power, I have figures that it will cost at least a few hundred billion to replace it. It will, of course, have to be paid for by consumers. It is important that the government comes to a conclusion. We may hear later what the solution will be. Hydropower also has problems today with a property tax that beats with 9 øre per kilowatt. Here, too, there are other legislation that we are beginning to think a little bit about when it comes to what hydropower should look like. Madam President, I would like The electricity certificates entered into force on 1 May 2003. It was not because it was 1 May that we Moderates were against them; we have later put up on the electricity certificates. However, it can be seen that the electricity certificates are currently driving further electricity that is not demanded by the market. That is what leads to a low energy price. According to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the electricity consumer has paid 37 billion without even seeing it on the electricity bill today. It is a cost that we electricity consumers have to pay. The report includes, among other things, that the government should ensure that the electricity bill is made easier. I am a little hesitant about the reintroduction on the electricity bill of the proportion of electricity certificates, but I think that would be a pretty good declaration of goods. The reason why it was removed at one time was precisely to facilitate the reading of electricity bills. We remember that there was a serious debate on this. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will mention something about the power reserve. The legislation applies until 2020, and Swedish power networks have a mission, I think it is at 2 000 megawatts, to ensure that there is backup power. This can be solved in two ways: that someone provides backup power when it gets incredibly cold or that electricity-intensive industry turns off its business at the time. The idea when the 2020 deadline was set was that the electricity market would solve this itself. Personally, I think it'll be difficult. I understand that the government intends to continue with the Act on the Power Reserve, and I think that we should try to find the most inexpensive forms for this electricity reserve for the consumer. Some people usually ironize and say: Now we have a lack of power, so then Kvarnsveden back home in Dalarna has to close down. But the industry is being compensated, and it can be incredibly cheap from the perspective of electricity consumers in the long term to do so instead of building up an effect that we only need a few hours every two or four years. Let's see. Perhaps we will get a report from the government parties on what has been planned with this power reserve, if there is an extension and so it does not stop.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-20	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the energy report with motions from the general period of exercise. The Swedish Democrats' basic approach to energy policy is to promote an energy system that will provide a long-term competitive and reliable energy supply for industry, welfare and citizens. It shouldn't be the other way around. The focus should be to enable Sweden to maintain as high an international competitiveness and standard of living as possible. When the government took office, it announced and launched a parliamentary committee, the Energy Commission, to analyse energy policy and explore the possibilities of reaching the widest possible energy agreement with a particular focus on power supply after 2025. That is, of course, well-lawed, but while the government has set aside to analyse energy policy, a great deal can happen. Four of the country's ten nuclear reactors have already been closed down. The other week it was also announced that Oskarshamn 1 will close already next year, which was in the lower span for what had previously been announced and two years earlier than 2019, which was the far limit in the span. This is something that is driven hard by an artificially low electricity price combined with a tax on nuclear energy in the form of an impact tax. The tax sanctions against hydroelectric power in the form of increased property tax also endanger power stations facing major renovation needs in the same way. When faced with the need to invest, there will not be the necessary financial provision for investments. As the Swedish Democrats have previously pointed out, the government has implemented a number of measures that have a major impact on the conditions after 2025 and during the time the Commission has worked and worked. The tax on nuclear power has been increased and the level of ambition of the electricity certification system has been increased, which is increasingly becoming a mere subsidy system for weather-dependent power strokes. Tax resources are also targeted at subsidies for solar investments. These are measures that contribute and have contributed to aggravating this problem beyond 2025, with an artificially low electricity price. The question is how much the conditions for the analysis will change in the period up to 2025 as a result of the government's actions and reluctance to act in the meantime. Madam President, I would like The basic problem of subsidies and various forms of support schemes is that they distort competition. Today, oversupply in the power market has been driven, leading to artificially low electricity prices, which does not reflect the real cost of power generators. It puts the legs completely away on, for example, the base force. It is not sustainable over time, as maintaining the situation requires more and more subsidies to maintain power in the system. The subsidy schemes developed politically have also preferably stimulated investments in weather-dependent power types that do not necessarily deliver when the need for power is greatest, and usually have a significantly lower capacity factor than the average of the power system. Also, if we look at the forces that are being made politically unprofitable by criminal taxation and which are effectively replaced by weather-dependent forces, the margin of the power balance is reduced. We can now see that security of supply is seriously at risk, as we are beginning to move towards a negative balance of power. It hasn't been like that for a long time. The Swedish Democrats regret this, for it has been one of the forces for Sweden that we have had a high level of security of supply, and it has been an asset for our industry for a long time. If we are to move towards a more efficient electricity market, it is our view that we must start to clean up the market from various forms of anti-competitive aid that tend to be dominant. The time for far-reaching subsidies is over. Madam President, I would like The conditions for small-scale hydropower will also be discussed later in the spring, but not by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but in a special report from the Committee on Civil Liberties. We believe that the issue is very important under the conditions of the small-scale power stations that are subject to extended new and re-evaluation of their permits. Most of these power stations are located in places where hydropower has been used for centuries to power mills, saws, hammers, and the like. Many of the smaller communities in the southern half of Sweden have developed around hydropower. There is therefore a very great cultural historical value around the power plants in addition to the power production itself. Many of these small-scale hydroelectric stations are now threatened with closure as a result of these re-evaluations, together with the artificially low electricity price and punitive taxation in the form of an increased property tax. Small hydroelectric power thus has a great value for energy policy. In terms of energy, it contributes just over one tenth of total hydropower's energy production, but the important thing is that these works play a much greater role from an effect point of view. They are located mainly in southern Sweden and have a large effect value. They contribute up to 900 megawatts to the power balance during the winter months. The 900 megawatts can be compared, for example, with the contribution of wind power to the power balance, which is more than 660 megawatts for the whole country. Small hydroelectric power thus contributes a higher power value to the power balance than the entire installed wind power capacity in Sweden. That's almost 50% more. With this, I would like to endorse the reservations 2 and 9 contained in the report. The Swedish Democrats, of course, support all our reservations in the report, but for time we are content to ask for approval of these two reservations.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-35	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start by bragging a little bit. You can't really do that in Sweden, because the jante law prevails here, but I take the risk. I usually hand out anti-Jante ceramics, but I'm doing it now symbolically instead. The Center Party has a long tradition of pursuing policies that combine many different sustainability aspects: the economy, the social part and the ecological part. The green tax shift is fundamental to our environmental policy, and in my vision and that of the Center Party we want an energy system that is 100% renewable by 2040. Some here sit in the Environmental Objectives Committee, and I am very pleased that you have reached an agreement on a sharp climate target by 2045. It's a little tougher than it was before, and I thank you for that. We need a toolbox that enables this development. To achieve this goal, which is probably the world's most ambitious climate targets, this fossil energy must be replaced by renewable energy. I therefore support the proposal in the Center Party's 2371 motion for continued efforts to extend renewable energy. We assume that the Energy Commission will take into account the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposals in the forthcoming work. Sweden, as I have said quite a number of times in this pulpit, has unique conditions for producing renewable energy from the earth, the forest, the sea, the wind and the sun. Solar and wine parts together with hydropower and biopower constitute the base of a robust and fully renewable energy system. From an international perspective, Sweden is a pioneer country when it comes to successful energy and climate policy. If we look at the Swedish energy system from outside, we see that renewable energy is growing, that electricity exports are record high now, that electricity prices are low and that Sweden's climate and energy targets are on the way to being achieved. Some targets have been achieved for a long time, such as the 10% renewable energy target in the transport sector. Madam President, I would like All of this is the impact of the Alliance's climate and energy agreement, which continues to deliver concrete results for the climate and energy transition. However, the situation is not the same in the rest of the world. While alarming reports continue to come about record warm summer and winter months, the world's need for energy continues to increase. In Sweden, the need for electricity is decreasing, while electricity generation is breaking record. In 2015, the second largest annual production ever achieved in Sweden. Hydropower was the power type that produced the most electricity and accounted for 47 per cent of Sweden's electricity production during the year. Wind power broke a new production record and now accounts for 10 percent of total electricity production. The rate of installation of solar cells also continues to increase. In 2014, the Swedish PV market doubled for the fourth consecutive year. That's pretty good. During last year, Sweden's use of electricity was the second lowest in the 2000s. This contributed to the net export of electricity from Sweden for the fifth consecutive year. Sweden also showed a year of record electricity exports. Net exports totalled 22.6 terawatt hours in 2015. It is the largest ever from Sweden. It also corresponds to the production of Swedish nuclear power for less than five months. Madam President, I would like The beginning of the year has also contained a historical event as Nordbalt has been put into operation. It is an electricity transmission cable that makes the Baltic countries less dependent on Russian fossil energy as they can trade electricity with the Nordic market. Sweden's ability to export even more renewable electricity to countries around us in the long term is good. However, further improvements in power transmission capacity will be required to our neighbours and to the continent. Sweden can and should be Europe's green battery. But we also see challenges in the energy sector. Power producers are facing economic challenges, as we have heard said in the pulpit before. Unfortunately, the sun has been subject to tax because of the red-green government. And transport's emissions are still Sweden's biggest energy and climate challenge. Therefore, the ongoing work of the Energy Commission is important. Madam President, I would like For us in the Center Party, it is important that the Energy Commission takes into account the entire energy system and does not focus unilaterally on individual forces or on individual issues outside the whole. However, I think that the narrow mission of the Energy Commission to handle only electricity is wrong. The Center Party was clear that transport should also be part of the Energy Commission's mission. I would therefore like to devote a few minutes to the energy transition of the transport sector. Emissions from the transport sector are the biggest climate challenge in Sweden. My goal and the Center Party's goal is for the fleet to be fossil independent in 2030. Since Sweden has already achieved the 10% renewable energy target in the transport sector, I believe that Sweden should raise its ambitions to 30% renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020. We can do that. In the 2371 Party Movement of the Center Party, to which I referred earlier, there are several proposals for measures aimed at achieving these objectives. Of course I support all these proposals. However, since only one of them is under consideration in this report, I am content to call for approval of the proposal to introduce a requirement within the EU for each new car sold to be declared energy. This makes a car's climate performance visible to the car buyer. Environmentally conscious consumers' choices can then ultimately have a positive impact on the supply of energy- and climate-efficient cars. I want it to be easy to do the right thing. I also want it to be easy to refuel. I am therefore concerned about the government's policy now threatening to take out renewable fuels, which we in the Alliance have created the conditions for them to compete with fossil fuels. Sales of biodiesel and ethanol dive as a result of announced tax increases on sustainable biofuels introduced by the government in different stages. For example, the industry expects an annual volume decrease of 150 000 cubic metres with the current and accelerating rate of biodiesel volume. At the same time, ethanol sales are record low. Sales of E85 fell by 40 per cent in 2015. In December, the fall was as much as 55 per cent. In order for Sweden's energy system to be renewable and for us to reach the climate target of 2045, this is an energy challenge that we cannot ignore.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-56	Madam President, I would like Energy policy is one of the cornerstones of a functioning society, and security of energy supply is a prerequisite for prosperity. Liberals have three overarching objectives for our energy policy. It concerns the climate, security of supply and energy security. I believe that we all agree that the climate issue is precisely the greatest challenge for the future of our time and that a large part of the fossil emissions at global level that we are fighting are found in the energy sector in particular. The primary objective of all energy policies must be 100% fossil-free. It is a much more relevant target that is much more urgent to meet than the 100% renewable target, which is a bit diffuse in the Swedish debate. Following the Paris climate summit in December, the world's countries are now behind the objective of reducing CO2 emissions, although the way there is still quite diffuse. The focus is therefore on reducing CO2 emissions, not on getting rid of low-carbon energy sources that the government has chosen to do over the past year. In fact, many countries are jealous of the Swedish electricity mix. It is almost 100% fossil-free already today. We have no power outages to talk about, and we have low electricity prices. In many ways we have a very good starting point. The climate challenges are in our neighbourhood, with our European neighbours. There we can do much more to help. Energy policy must not stop at Sweden's borders; there is an environment to be taken into account, not least on the other side of the Baltic Sea. Madam President, I would like The other energy policy objectives of the liberals are security of supply. We must be able to guarantee electricity at reasonable prices every day of the year. As members of the Energy Commission, we remember what we learned at SSAB last summer about the frightening figures. 0.1 seconds of power failure causes damage for several million SEK and destroys 75 tons of steel for the company. These figures pinpoint what security of supply means in practice. The more weather-dependent electricity production we build into the system, the greater the challenge of coping with the effect. As long as we cannot store electricity, we must therefore safeguard the basic power we have. Madam President, I would like The third objective of liberals in energy policy is energy security. The government's increase in the impact tax at a time when the price of electricity is very low punishes Swedish nuclear power. This leads to an increase in fossil electricity production in our vicinity. If it does not happen in Sweden, it will happen in the neighbouring countries. The issue of energy security in our neighbouring countries is at least as serious as fossil emissions. With the seriously deteriorating security situation we have seen in recent years, one must be almost blind in order not to see that our European neighbours' dependence on Russian gas is very serious. Today, up to six EU members are totally dependent on Russia for their gas supplies. Several of them have experienced in recent years political pressure linked to precisely their energy agreements with Russia. Sweden could export safe electricity to our Baltic neighbours to help them from gas dependence, if it were not that we are now gradually getting rid of Swedish nuclear power. Solidarity with our neighbours will then be thrown into the trash can. Nor does it help that the European Commission has just taken the initiative for the Energy Union, the purpose of which is, among other things, to make the EU less dependent on Russian gas. The Swedish government turns a deaf ear and continues to preach its mantra about 100 percent renewable, as if nothing had happened and as if our Baltic neighbours did not exist. Madam President, I would like This is not a serious energy policy for me. The issue of the new Russian gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea is particularly topical. I very much regret that the Alliance Government did no more to stop the project the first time. Today, the security and energy policy situation in Europe is quite different. It would be foolish and wrong to allow more gas pipelines at the bottom of the Baltic Sea. I very much hope that the government will put an end to Nordstream 2. Madam President, I would like In our motions, we Liberals have outlined our view of energy policy on the basis of the principles I have just mentioned. I would therefore like to support reservation 1, which is common to the Alliance, and reservations 5, 10 and 14. Otherwise, we support the proposal of the majority of committees in the report.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-73	Madam President, I would like There is uncertainty about energy policy, and it is often expressed by the basic industry in particular. But in recent times I have also heard it from many other companies and businesses. Even rising energy costs appear to be a threat, although we know that electricity costs have been relatively low. This concern, of course, applies particularly to the steel and forest industry, which has a high level of energy consumption. The price picture that exists is affected by the levelling-out of the rest of Europe. For example, Germany's decommissioning of nuclear power plants has initially been replaced by fossil fuels. The unclear energy policy pursued in our own country, including the future of nuclear power, leads to monopoly pricing of the competitive and ownership conditions of power companies. Sweden was previously a rather interesting option for many with electricity intensive production – who has not been happy with Google and others that have been established in Sweden? – but it is not as obvious as before, although still a strong alternative. The basic industry, like many others, naturally strives for a stable system of electricity supply. We Christian Democrats believe very much in the Energy Commission in which I myself am a member in order to agree on a long-term approach to Sweden's electricity supply. It is a question of providing both renewable energy and nuclear energy with good conditions. Nuclear power is still an incredibly important part of the base in Sweden's electricity production. We cannot, of course, say to the companies operating the reactors that there is no profitability in the operation and that the reactors must be shut down earlier. Of course, then we must take action. Research must continue on what we can do to produce renewable energy, but also in nuclear technology to ensure future energy supply, so that it is well placed to meet the entire future energy needs. As far as the most long-term energy investments are concerned, alongside investments in electricity grids and hydroelectric power, investments in nuclear energy are among the best over time and provide security for other industrial investments. We cannot ignore that either. That is why energy supply must be secured in every way before political decisions are taken that can have a major impact both on the future of nuclear energy and on the rest of Sweden's energy supply. Madam President, I would like This is an interesting area. We have discussed the thermal effect in this House in the past. The tax on thermal effect – or the effect tax – has been incredibly much discussed. Many in the energy industry have a great expectation that we in the Energy Commission will soon come up with a proposal for a decision on this. We Christian Democrats already said in the autumn budget that we were against the increase in the impact tax. All parties will have to think about the abolition of the tax on energy and how it affects other types of energy. That is why we in the Energy Commission will look at all types of energy and the financial impact. So I'm talking about taxes and charges overall. We can talk property taxes, VAT or something else. It goes without saying that if you remove something from one type of energy it affects the others. As a Christian Democrat, I think it is incredibly important to have this discussion, because we have always advocated the diversity of energy sources. It must not hit one way or the other, but it must see the possibility of developing several types of energy at the same time. As we know, it is sometimes cold in this country, although this winter has been very varied and more mild than really cold. Then I'll get into this with the power reserve. We Christian Democrats have recommended, and not least in our energy movement, that it is important that the power reserve remains. There is a point in extending it until 2030. But there should be a reconciliation every five years, so that you see what the need looks like. We also believe that longer procurement times of the power reserve are better to ensure that operators are compensated for any necessary investments. Perhaps there could also be a procurement that is valid throughout the year in order to have the security of the actors, and also in order for us to be aware that climate change can in fact lead to the need for increased impact. The power reserve should also consist of more environmentally friendly electricity generation so that coal-fired power plants that have been used to date can be removed. Even if they are not often used, coal-fired power stations should be excluded from this if the target is to be reached at 100% renewable level. Madam President, I would like We currently have a situation in Sweden– I don't know how many people follow the debate via the computer or TV– where I feel there is an expectation of us politicians, MPs and not least the Energy Commission, that we will come up with new strong proposals regarding the electricity supply in S verige. I hope that they will be produced during the year which takes into account not least the financial impact. I can take this opportunity to mention the hydropower that I and several others in this House have argued for. This applies, in particular, to small-scale hydropower, of which I and many others are extremely concerned. It has, as it were, mismanaged companies in rural areas that have been charged unhemula amounts of fees for something that has been working perhaps for centuries. Madam President, I would like We continue to work to ensure that all types of energy can develop and survive without constant subsidies. We Christian Democrats, for example, want to review the certification system in due course. As I said, there are many things in energy policy that I and many others hope we will be able to resolve in discussions, not least in the Energy Commission.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-89	Madam President, I would like Today, therefore, we are debating the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs' report No 10 on energy policy. For the sake of order, Madam President, I would already like to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations. The fact that energy policy causes a significant activity when it comes to writing motions in the Swedish parliament is neither unusual nor particularly surprising. Energy policy concerns. It is constantly present in various ways and is, of course, important as a foundation in a modern society as we know it. It is important for jobs and employment, for service and welfare. That is why it is so good that we have a debate on energy policy here in the Swedish parliament and not just on the debate pages in Dagens Industri and Svenska Dagbladet. It is on these pages of debate that most of the parties' spokespersons have spent most of their energy in the last six months. As far as the overall focus on Swedish energy policy is concerned, there is basically a broad consensus. The basic elements of security of supply, competitiveness and low impact on the environment and climate are agreed, and that is excellent. Madam President, I would like The Energy Agreement of the Alliance Parties is becoming somewhat old-fashioned. Its eagerness to cling to it underlines that it dates back to 2009. When you invoke it and say that it should be the starting point for the energy policy that you want to pursue in the future, it seems a little out of date. It is just as if nothing in our world had changed in this area since 2009. But what was the price picture of Nord Pool in 2009? Well, the average price in 2009 was 44.82 øre per kilowatt hour. Is the price different now? Yes, in 2015, the average price was about 24 øre per kilowa thh. Then one might ask: Does this have any impact on how the energy market behaves? Does this affect the conditions? Of course it does! Madam President, I would like It is time to realise that something has happened since 2009. It is time to be involved in taking responsibility for the important task of the Energy Commission. It is time to contribute to this work on proposals and constructive solutions to the challenges facing Swedish energy policy, at least with the same intensity as the writing of debate articles. Sweden really needs a long-term policy in this area, with as stable, predictable and long-term rules of the game as possible in a living democracy, taking into account the international changes on which we are increasingly dependent, whether we like them or not. Madam President, I would like When you follow the ongoing debate in this area, it sometimes gets a little confused. One day the opposition demands that all energy issues be dealt with by the Energy Commission and that the government absolutely must not make any decisions in this area. The next day, the same opposition demands that the government take decisions on issues that are clearly part of the Energy Commission's mission. In the political game, you pick the arguments that seem to fit best for the moment. It is becoming a bit sprawling, as is evident from this report. Madam President, I would like As usual, the Committee on Economic Affairs' debates on energy policy will be almost exclusively about electricity. Nevertheless, let me briefly touch on another area of energy policy, namely the transport sector, which Helena Lindahl also mentioned. Here is the really big challenge for Sweden, now and for the next 10 – 15 years. But that challenge also presents great opportunities. A significant part of the transport sector is likely to be electrified. But more options will also be needed to replace fossil fuels. Those options are probably called biofuels. To support this process, the Government has strengthened the Energy Authority's resources in this area, so that they can take a more active and coordinating role. From the point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we see that positive developments in this area not only make an important contribution to meeting the climate goals, but also create great opportunities for jobs and jobs. Madam President, I would like One important factor when talking about energy and the future supply of energy, as important as production issues, is energy efficiency. There is a need for new innovations and incentive programmes in the business sector. The work name PFE 2.0 still works excellently to illustrate what we mean. But also in other sectors, not least in the local and residential sectors, there are huge potentials for energy efficiency. It really requires a holistic approach to energy issues and full application of the system perspective. Among other things, responsibility issues at government level need to be reviewed and clarified. Not surprisingly, nuclear power unfortunately has its own title in today's report. I am not saying this because nuclear power and its issues would not be important, but because the Swedish energy debate seems to continue to revolve around a single issue. Nuclear power is an important issue and an important source of production in the current Swedish production mix – no one can say otherwise. In 2015, it accounted for 34 per cent of our electricity production. But it is not the only one, and conditions are constantly changing. My point of departure and that of the Social Democrats in this debate, as well as in the Energy Commission, is that the issues of production, like the issues of electricity use, distribution and the design of the future market models, must be seen and discussed in a comprehensive way, not in part and in part. Energy policy must be managed and formulated with a system perspective. We must now let the Energy Commission do its job and ensure that Members' energy is devoted to that job, not to creating storms of opinion that make it difficult for what Sweden so badly needs: a broad and long-term agreement on energy policy. Reaching this goal will require both political courage and the ability to have a political system perspective. Madam President, I would like Under the heading of renewable energy, the report deals with a wide range of requests for exercise on various energy sources. Wind power continues to contribute an increasing share of Swedish electricity production. In 2015, 16 1⁄2 terawatt hours were produced, which is a little more than 10 per cent of total production. It is a rapid and not a little impressive development. But wind power also detects low electricity prices on the market, not least as a result of the pace of investment in newly established wind power. In this section, Madam President, I would also like to say a few words about hydropower. Hydropower is a bit of the jewel in Swedish electricity production, something of the hub around which future energy production in Sweden will be built. In 2015, hydropower accounted for 46 per cent of Swedish electricity production. The capacity of hydropower for both basic production and regulatory power, as well as access to meet the impact challenges, makes it extremely valuable. But hydropower is also facing major challenges. Here too there are major investment needs and the current price level of the electricity market does not make it easier for hydropower to attract investment capital. Hydropower has great benefits for global climate policy, but also a significant impact on the environment and biodiversity in the neighbourhood. We must meet both of these challenges: exploiting the great climate benefits of hydropower and reasonably addressing environmental concerns. We will have reason to return to the issue of Swedish hydropower several times this year. During the autumn, the Government intends to present its proposal in this area. I look forward with excitement to the debates. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to summarise our view of the future energy society. We see before us a society in which hydropower continues to be the backbone of the electricity system, where solar power and wind power are growing and delivering increasing amounts of energy, where biomass accounts for an important part of electricity generation, while at the same time providing alternative transport fuels, where electrification of the transport sector is progressing, where people and companies are using energy more efficiently and where cross-border cooperation with our neighbours is the basis for how we solve the challenges of the future. In order to do this, we will have to review much of today's game rules. We look forward to that work, Madam President. I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-107	Madam President, I would like It was a lot of words but very little news, as I understood it. We can stick to nuclear power. There is no doubt that nuclear power has been exposed to competition created by politics. It is clear that the market is being doped with electricity certificates. This makes wind power a force that is not really demanded by the market today. That is why spot prices have fallen. There's an overproduction. Now the idea is for the electricity certificates to be phased out by 2020. I'm sure there are discussions about that. Those remaining in the system must remain in place until 2035. Then the question arises: Should you have it long-term? Of course we think so from the Alliance. The energy agreement from 2009 was very good. There is no doubt that there are three parties that may be a little more in love with nuclear power and believe in that technology, and there is one that may not be as delighted. But it is nevertheless in a common position, so the Alliance has been able to cope with the long-term. Madam President, I would like Ingemar Nilsson is standing and criticizing it because it is getting old and not so much. Is it something that our basic industry needs is the long-term rules of play. We need a predictable use of electricity. Looking at the current focus, savings programmes and certificates will make it even more choice. My question is: do the Social Democrats want nuclear power and the basic industry to remain, or do you choose the Green Party?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-113	Madam President, I would like You could be a little mean with Ulf Berg. But I do not want to be, because I think Ulf Berg is a breath of fresh air in the debate. I welcome him in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Energy and in the debate on energy policy. But one could describe some of the history that you do as an example of a market failure. You yourself said in your speech that there has been broad political agreement on the electricity certificates. If it were the case that we were to remove all the electricity produced by wind power today, we would still have an oversupply of electricity in Sweden. Total consumption and demand for electricity have fallen dramatically. I have a question back to Ulf Berg. The industry is calling for very long-term rules of play, and so are you here. We advocate long-term rules of play. But they cannot be more long-term than a living democracy presupposes and provides opportunities for. My question back will be: How do the Moderates in their policies combine this long-term approach with low electricity prices to maintain competitiveness and yet have investment incentives for industry? That's what you can't do. It's the rejection of the Alliance's energy agreement. I know that no new nuclear power was built between 2009 and 2014, at least in Sweden. The question then is: What is so good? What has been accepted by the market in the energy agreement that you met? Nothing. On the contrary, the truth, Ulf Berg, is that the energy agreement was rejected by the power industry because it did not provide the conditions. It was not wide enough, and it was not long enough. It is clearly rejected by the market. What is required, Ulf Berg, for the market to accept and realise that the long-term rules of the game work?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-119	Madam President, I would like What is needed is a long-term approach. Then, of course, even when reality changes, you have to redraw the map. This is the discussion that exists in the Energy Commission. It is clear that it is easy to say that the introduction of certificates of electricity, as was done in the early 2000s, is intended to provide energy by subsidising the electricity consumer. It is several billion, as I stated in my speech. Of course it has effects. A different assessment must then have been made politically, that is to say that energy consumption will increase. Now we have been successful and made sure to save energy. Our industry has been very successful. We'll be incredibly grateful for that. We have talked about the transport industry. That is where we have problems with fossil emissions. It's not in the electrical side. This may apply to the hours when we have a power reserve and must start any generator that runs on oil or gas. I have a question back. The Alliance has a deal. I didn't get an answer to the question. Do the Social Democrats listen to LO and the business community when it is said that we must have electricity production? There nuclear power is superior. Then you can make sure that there will not be these stops at SSAB in Borlänge, Kvarnsveden, Luleå or whatever we will find ourselves. My question is once again: what do the Social Democrats want? Do you listen to LO and the base industry? I didn't get any news either. Do you choose the base industry and nuclear power, or do you choose the Green Party?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-124	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that the world is so simple, Ulf Berg, that there is an absolutely linear link between the base industry and nuclear power. Ask the Swedish base industry what it is prepared to pay for the price of electricity. Consider the cost of newly established and newly produced nuclear power. You can make a study visit to Finland to find out the conditions for producing new nuclear power. We have said, and we will never lose sight of that, that we keep security of supply and competitiveness extremely important. These are two of the three parameters I listed earlier. They are an absolute prerequisite. We will ensure that the Swedish base industry, the Swedish industry and the Swedish business community, like the rest of society, have safe and secure access. What types of production it should be is one of the things that the Energy Commission is to discuss and debate. But that presupposes that we take in all the external factors that exist at all. We have never questioned the competitiveness of Swedish industry. Nor will we question that in the future. What the Production Act should look like and what the market models should look like is what the Energy Commission will consider. I hope and believe that we will continue to do so. I also hope that we will achieve what is the Energy Commission's goal, namely a long-term, broad political agreement that provides the conditions for Swedish industry to develop.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-129	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to my dear colleague from the Social Democrats in the line shift with my second colleague Ulf Berg from the Moderates. It is somehow so easy to just cross the questions over to the other side without answering anything. It is a skill that I must nevertheless acknowledge to my fellow debater here that I can always do so. But with this, of course, I am not giving up. The question is what we oppose the alliance agreement. Have we seen any agreement between the government parties on energy policy? No, we haven't. Talks will be held within the Energy Commission. I just said that myself in the speaker's chair. It's good that we do. Then let's do it. Let us also have, for everything in the world, the straight views that are needed for that to be exactly what is said to be the purpose of the Commission, that we should have a long-term plan for the supply of electricity in Sweden. Then there is a question: should we not keep the nuclear power we have? The alliance agreement is all of a sudden blamed for the fact that new reactors were not built during the previous periods. What, then, have the Social Democrats done to make it a long-term and stable energy supply, not least for the basic industry? What's the alternative?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-132	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether Penilla Gunther and the Christian Democrats have been to any other meetings or talks with the Energy Commission than I have been to. I have not been to a meeting that I can recall where we have not said – as I think the President of the Commission says – that we must have Swedish nuclear power as a bridge into the future. We are not yet ready to respond to the future production system for Swedish electricity supply. The Energy Commission has devoted a very large part of its first year to taking in what the world looks like in terms of technology development, economic conditions and research and development. If the answer to the question had been there, we would not have needed the Energy Commission. The purpose of the Energy Commission is to create the basis for a broad political settlement. It should be based on as much facts and international knowledge as it is possible at all and not on old feelings and old beliefs. Here it is important to take in as much facts as possible. That's a prerequisite. Penilla Gunthers's original question was: What is the alternative, and what is the proposal of the government parties? The answer to that is: we have appointed the Energy Commission. It's the job to do it.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-136	Mr President, I would like to It can be a good thing for the Social Democrats in government to still have some basic view of the problem that has now arisen, not least in view of the fact that there are reactors to be closed down prematurely. It has a major impact on the basic industry. I still do not get an answer to that question. What's the alternative? I have just heard Ingemar Nilsson speak about hydroelectric power. We all agree that there should be good, developed, productive and efficient hydropower. In fact, there is a need for an overall modernisation of the Swedish hydroelectric plants. We know that. There are completely new demands on technology so that we can simply get the most out of it. What is being done for this? Here, only Ingemar Nilsson talks about large-scale hydropower, while time and again one avoids the small-scale and feels that it is not worth anything. If we are to look at the whole of Sweden, the countryside and the companies that want to operate and develop elsewhere than in the big cities, small-scale hydropower is also needed. What I am seeking here as some kind of response from Ingemar Nilsson is a holistic approach. What do the Social Democrats want with the energy supply for Sweden? What kinds of energy do you think are reasonably sensible to develop? If nuclear power does not belong to it, what will be done to develop, for example, hydroelectric power? Is it only worth the large-scale ones, or do we also have the small-scale ones?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-140	Mr President, I would like to I gave our view of it in my speech. There I was talking about the hydropower son the hub of it all. Let me say that what Penilla Gunther and some others are referring to as some sort of quest for small hydropower is the result of the last year of the alliance government in power. This meant giving a clear incentive to local authorities to start that job through the extra funding they received to start it. They were to examine those water activities that were not authorised for their activities. That's what's going on right now. The government will return to the Chamber with a proposal on Swedish hydropower and its view. I would like to refer to the national strategy developed by two authorities in this area. It provides good guidance on how to view Swedish hydropower and its future. This means looking at it in a holistic way. We need to look at the large-scale hydropower and each individual watercourse separately and solve each area separately. The answer to Penilla Gunthers's question is: It is not the production of electricity that is our immediate problem in the foreseeable future. The problem that we have to discuss on the basis of the conditions that are given, economically and technically, is how we deal with impact issues. There too we will come back. In his speech, Ulf Berg also spoke about the issue of impact. We will return to it. I would just like to say rhetorically at the end that when I listened to Penilla Gunthers's speech, she spoke about her and the Christian Democrats' views on the issue of impact and the power reserve. It is stumblingly close that the proposal presented by Penilla Gunther will become a capacity market for the Swedish electricity market. It is very interesting if that is the attitude of Penilla Gunther and the Christian Democrats. That is something that the other parties have said before that they do not want. A power reserve of this magnitude will become a capacity market. I'm sorry about that.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-146	Mr President, I would like to Energy developments are rapid – both in Sweden and in the world. Some news just from the last week is that Japan is now expected to triple its wind power by 2020. Pakistan's parliament is now powered entirely by solar electricity. Since this report was prepared by the Committee on Economic Affairs, seven of Parliament's parties have agreed on a new climate target in the Environmental Objectives Committee. The previous target for 2050 has been brought forward. No later than 2045, Sweden will have zero net emissions in order to have negative emissions in the following years, i.e. less than zero. The environmental target committee also proposes that Sweden implement a climate law that requires each government to report in the future, regardless of colour, how they work to reduce climate emissions. An independent scientific council shall analyse the development of climate policy. The climate is the destiny of our time. Energy policy is closely linked to how we manage climate change. In the EU, Sweden is still at its peak in the share of renewable energy, today 52%. The government's target is 100% renewable energy. In an energy development that changes, it is important to keep up to date. Several motions from the Moderates and Christian Democrats say that nuclear power accounts for half of Sweden's electricity production. That's not true. The Swedish Energy Agency recently presented the figures for electricity generation in 2015. Nuclear power accounts for 34% of electricity production, hydropower for 47%, and wind power is now up to 10%. At the turn of the year, the higher target for the electricity certification system began to apply. In October last autumn, Parliament voted in favour of the Government's proposal to raise the target for renewable energy deployment by 2020. The system has benefited Sweden well since its introduction in 2003, and the Green Party is in favour of extending it until 2030. By investing in renewable energy, the government creates the conditions for reducing emissions and developing towards a sustainable energy system. Solar cells will be an important piece of the puzzle in 100 percent renewable energy. In order to stimulate the expansion of solar cells, the Government is investing SEK 1.4 billion for the period 2016 – 2019. Those who have stood in the queue formed during the time of the alliance government will now be paid and receive their investment aid. Important for solar energy is also the mission that the Swedish Energy Agency has been given to develop proposals for a solar strategy. This will be the first time that Sweden has received a national solar strategy. Ocean-based wind power is another form of energy with great potential. The government has announced that support for offshore wind energy will be strengthened. The Swedish Energy Agency has been commissioned to investigate how this can be done. I think their proposals are very interesting. I hope there will be a majority in parliament to introduce such a proposal. Transport is the sector that currently has the largest share of fossil energy. A shift in the transport sector in order to break fossil dependence is necessary and requires energy efficiency, electrification and an increase in the share of biofuels. The previous government set up an investigation, which in the Fossil Freedom report on its way provided important evidence and many good proposals. However, in order to make climate benefits, the proposals must become a reality. The Energy Agency is now being given resources to coordinate efforts to make proposals for reducing climate emissions in the transport sector a reality. Energy efficiency is important for both reduced environmental impact and enhanced competitiveness. An analysis commissioned by the Government shows that energy efficiency measures need to be developed to reach the potential by 2030. Systems for energy efficiency, so-called white certificates, have been investigated by the Swedish Energy Agency. I hope that there is a majority in Parliament that wants to implement such a system in Sweden, as many other EU countries have done. In the future, the energy system is likely to become more decentralised and people are involved in the energy transition. One thing that has improved people's ability to own their own electricity generation is the tax reduction that has been in place for over a year. Those with solar cells on their roof receive a remuneration of 60 øre per kilowatt hour for the electricity sold out via the electricity grid. Now it will also be examined how the system can be made simpler, for example by counting through the electricity bill, and how more can be covered so that even those who live in an apartment and do not have their own roof to put solar cells on can be involved. For those with their own solar cells, it is interesting to use batteries in the future to store their energy. Technology has developed rapidly, and the government is now allocating funds for energy storage facilities in households. Mr President, I would like to Large investments in renewable energy and modern solutions are now being implemented. At the same time, Sweden is about to phase out unprofitable nuclear power. Nuclear power owners have announced that four out of ten reactors will be closed by 2020. One reactor is already stationary and will not be started, and the other will be shut down in 2017. Several have claimed in the debate that nuclear power is being shut down because of the tax. But let's look at the numbers again. Vattenfall's own figures show a production cost for nuclear power of 30 – 32 øre per kilowatt hour. The so-called power tax is 7 – 8 øre per kilowatt hour. With today's electricity price of about 20 øre per kilowatt hour, nuclear power is therefore unprofitable even if it has to pay tax. Those who argue that nuclear power must be maintained at all costs should reasonably respond to how. Do they want government subsidies to keep nuclear power under their arms? Fortunately, no one is arguing to remove the increased safety requirements or the decision that the industry should pay for its own nuclear waste. That, together with the record low price and safety requirements, is the main reason why nuclear power is currently unprofitable. Yet nuclear power still does not pay for its own insurance. The low electricity price is largely due to the existence of a surplus of electricity on the market. The natural thing in such a situation is that production units with the highest cost are removed from the market. What we see is that the expansion of renewable energy is phasing out the oldest nuclear power plants that are no longer needed. This report deals with motions on energy from the general exercise time. They give a comprehensive picture of the views and suggestions of the opposition. The bourgeois parties repeat that they agree on the energy agreement concluded by the four parties in 2009. But that's where the similarities end. A center party motion says that there is no future for new nuclear power anymore. Instead, the Moderates propose that the Swedish Energy Agency should research new nuclear power. Two of the four parties are behind the government's target of 100% renewable energy. Much has happened in the field of energy since the last government's energy agreement was concluded in 2009, and it gives no answer to how Sweden will continue to have a sustainable and functioning energy system. Today it is allowed to build new nuclear power, but the market dismisses it as too expensive. New wind power is being built today for 50 øre per kilowatt hour, and new nuclear power costs double. As energy policy needs to be long-term, cross-block agreements that extend over mandates are important. The government has appointed an Energy Commission to provide input for a broad political agreement on long-term energy policy. The bourgeois parties have so far said that they will speak with one voice in the Energy Commission. But I miss their constructive proposals to discuss. Now is not the time to sit with your arms crossed or to engage in political circuses. In my speech, I have highlighted three proposals that would be important for the further development of energy policy: the extension of electricity certification systems by 2030, offshore wind power and energy efficiency programmes. I have also given a comprehensive picture of the many initiatives that the government is undertaking. The question remains: What do the bourgeois parties want? Mr President, I would like to Sweden has historically benefited from having a forward spirit and a welcoming attitude to new technologies. Let's keep it that way.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-163	Mr President, I would like to Let's see if we can get a little clearer information from the Green Party than we have from the Social Democrats. It is quite right that nuclear power is not profitable today. It depends on the impact tax and other things. I can rhetorically ask how it would have gone with wind power if there had not been an electricity certificate. What is the production cost of wind power? I would like an answer to whether the Green Party is prepared to sit in the government and ensure that the power tax is reduced or that it is removed so that it is the investment decisions that are needed to increase the safety of the nuclear power plants that are assessed to remain. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have a recent party decision that we would like to see nuclear power maintained, and we can also imagine the new generation of nuclear power, which is far less risky. Now there is nuclear power, and we know that Vattenfall has been clear about the fact that if we are not told, all nuclear power will have to be shut down. It is not justifiable to make these investments. It is clear that investments cannot be made if the company makes losses. Surely no one now believes that the low energy prices will last forever. There's a lot that's because it's a recession and so on. Is the Green Party prepared to reduce the impact tax?
i-4QqNfW15VdYCq4qqBAaAUZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Ulf Berg! What is important for Sweden is to have a plan for what should take place when nuclear power is phased out. It's becoming unprofitable. Ulf Berg says that nuclear power is unprofitable because of the impact tax. Let me repeat what I said in my speech. Nuclear power would today be unprofitable even if the tax on power was completely removed. The Moderates' proposal in the budget is to make a certain reduction in the impact tax, but with the budget supported by the Moderates and Berg, nuclear power is still unprofitable. Ulf Berg talks warmly about nuclear power remaining and not being shut down. Then the natural follow-up question is how the Moderates want to save nuclear power. Do you want direct state aid? What level of impact the right will have in the future is something I assume we will discuss in the Energy Commission. The important thing for the Green Party is that nuclear power pays more of its socio-economic costs. The impact tax is a small part of that calculation. What is a greater impact is the increased safety requirements imposed by the authorities. This also applies to liability because nuclear power still does not pay its own insurance. Furthermore, the nuclear waste levy proposed by the Authority is to be further increased in order for there to be money so that the industry will pay for its own waste. Nuclear power is unprofitable. Let us then discuss in the Energy Commission how we will build Sweden strong and provide the conditions for investments for the future. We see today that it is cheaper to build wind power than new nuclear power. What the basic industry is asking for is stable electricity supply at a low price. Why do the Moderates stubbornly want to build new nuclear power that is twice as expensive as building wind power?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-172	Mr President, I would like to We are not discussing extending nuclear power today. That's not the problem. I maintain that if we remove today's nuclear power, we will have significantly increased electricity prices because it is not possible to produce wind power for 30 øre per kilowatt hour. Then we wouldn't have seen a single one. If that were the case, the certificates of electricity have been completely unnecessary. We must, of course, ensure that the impact tax is reduced. We Moderates have been clear. We can think of a drop. We are also prepared to discuss issues in order to find alternative funding. We believe that it is important for our basic industry to have a safe energy on the electricity side. It's important. The Green Party wants to extend the electricity certificates. I'll take it in a way. I also read Dalarnas Tidningar, where Lise Nordin has written that nuclear power should be removed. Wouldn't it be much easier for the Green Party to say straight out that the Party wants nuclear power removed? I could accept that somewhere. The Green Party is free to think so. But I can't accept that they're going this way. Neither the Environmental Party nor the Social Democrats can talk about what the government wants, but as soon as it becomes a question it is apparently Lars Helmered and his comrades in the Energy Commission who will solve it. It would be nice for those who lead a country to have some idea of what they want with politics. But we have not seen any of that here, even from the Green Party. Say it now! 中 Nuclear power must be removed. That's what we environmentalists think. .....................................................
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-177	Mr President, I would like to The Government already states in the Government Agreement that its target is 100% renewable energy. The Green Party proposes that the electricity system be fully renewable by 2030. I am surprised that Ulf Berg feels that the government's view of nuclear power and the energy system is not clear. The government has a very clear objective. It also becomes double when the Moderates on the one hand say that the government does not act or present its policy and, on the other hand, criticise the government for making decisions outside the Energy Commission. It's going to be something schizophrenic. The electricity certification system has been in place since 2003. The purpose of this is to develop new technologies. Since its introduction, the aid has been paid mainly to hydroelectric power and bioenergy and in recent years to wind power. I think it is important to see that all types of energy should be able to stand on their own feet. Wind power is getting closer to becoming a mature technology and will not need support for much longer. Nuclear power was greatly supported when it was expanded and still cannot stand on its own. It still doesn't pay its insurance. If we had a situation in which all power teams paid their full social cost, I do not think there would be any need for subsidies for the renewable alternatives. Ulf Berg said the Moderates are prepared to discuss alternative funding. I hope that later we can hear what proposals the Moderates have to save nuclear power. The reduction in the impact tax that the Moderates have in their budget means that nuclear power remains unprofitable. I think we need to go further in the discussion and note that the oldest reactions today are unprofitable. They will be phased out, whether it will be next year or in five years. Sweden is facing a shift in the energy system, and it is important to discuss a clear goal for the future. The Government's targets and the Environmental Party's targets are 100 percent renewable energy. Sweden has fantastic technical possibilities to get there.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-184	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to see a diversity of renewable energy in the transport sector, industry, heating and electricity generation, and strive for a large-scale and small-scale energy system adapted to local and industrial needs. We have written this in our energy movement. We want Sweden to have an energy system based on 100% renewable energy in the long term. I believe that we have the same objective there, even though we Christian Democrats do not set an end date for the implementation of this. But Lise Nordin is becoming a bit contradictory. I have not seen anything about this, but I may have missed it and therefore need to be enlightened. In a motion that I myself have written, I have tried to highlight not least the social costs of all power classes – how to recycle a production plant regardless of the power type, what to do with the land and what to do with it, clean-up and recycling and recycling. Wind power plants, for example – what happens to their cement foundations and what may be involved? What are the thoughts of the Green Party in this regard? What kind of money is spent on this? It's not as simple as saying that we just do this or that, set up more solar panels or build wind turbines. There is no profitability in anything today. We must also agree on this, I think, because that is what this is all about. Had there been profitability, we would probably have seen a greater development of all types of energy. But nothing is profitable today. What do we do to maintain research and development in this area?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-188	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Christian Democrats and the Green Party share the goal of having 100% renewable energy in the long term. I also agree with Penilla Gunther that we have a situation with very low electricity prices, which means that in principle there are no investments that can be made profitable without aid. The conclusion I draw from this is that we politicians need to think about where we want to put the aid – provided we want to make new investments, and I think that is absolutely necessary in order to have a plan for new electricity production when the old one is phased out. How, then, should we think when we make new investments? I believe that support will be needed to invest in new electricity production. It will not be possible to do so on the market as it stands today. In the budget we have a limited pot of money, and then we need to prioritise what we want to spend that money on. How do we get the most electricity per invested crown? Yes, by investing in renewable electricity production. As I said earlier: Today we in Sweden are building wind power for 50 øre per kilowatt hour, according to the Swedish Energy Agency's latest compilation. The experience of all the countries in our vicinity that are trying to build new nuclear power shows that the price for new nuclear power is SEK 1 per kilowatt thour. If we in the Energy Commission were to land in that it is new nuclear power that is to be built, it would therefore cost twice as much per kilowatt hour compared to whether we choose to build renewable energy. So I think the answer is quite clear: it is renewable energy that we should invest in. Renewable energy is what is now the safest, the cheapest and the most sustainable.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-194	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Lise Nordin, but if we maintain the same system that we have had for a number of years, with these electricity certificates or other types of taxes and charges, there is no renewal in this area. New technology does not come in when you constantly subsidise old technology. What's the Green Party thinking there? In the event of a reduction in subsidies for electricity generation, it is clear that we end up in other price levels – j avisst. But it is not fair, as Lise Nordin does, to constantly compare the cost of wind power and the cost of nuclear power. It goes without saying that with the subsidy that wind power has received for a number of years, it is a completely different cost, and that also applies to the cost of production of the plants themselves. The comparison limps badly, quite simply. No answer comes from either the Social Democrats or the Green Party when it comes to how we should think about the basic industry's need for continued security of electricity supply. That's where we get the talk. Lise Nordin and I, like everyone else who works with energy issues, get talks all the time. How are you going to solve this? Should even more reactors be shut down prematurely so that as politicians you do not dare to take a stand or even ensure that the reactors we have that work can continue their lifetime out? I'd be grateful for answers.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-198	Mr President, I would like to I think Penilla Gunther misunderstands me. 50 øre per kilowatt hour for wind power is pure production price. It's completely unsupported. The comparison with new nuclear power – which therefore costs double, 1 krona per kilowatt hour – is for pure production price. This is the technological development that has taken place. Nuclear power has become more expensive over the years to produce and build, while wind power has had a very positive development and today the cheapest thing that can be built on the market. The electricity certification system is, according to most assessors, the support that can be given politically to the cheapest generation of electricity. What could be cheaper if we wanted to provide the conditions for new investments in electricity generation in the market? The Energy Authority has even calculated that the small mark-up on the electricity bill has been compensated by lower electricity prices for households. The electricity certification system has thus been a pure profit business for both households and companies. The basic industry needs reliable electricity at low prices. I think that reality is running in the wake of Penilla Gunther and the bourgeois parties, who continue to try to give the impression that nuclear power would be what the base industry benefits most from. It's the one that's expensive. The existing one is profitable because it has high production costs and higher safety requirements. It's renewable energy running in the lurch. On the question of how to ensure that Sweden has a reliable electrical system, I would like to answer that it is more important that we have a stable energy system as a whole. Hydropower, which currently accounts for about half of electricity generation, is excellent as a regulator. In addition, we have new technology that makes it possible to store energy in batteries. We have the opportunity to build more cables for our neighbours for a more stable electrical system. On behalf of the government, the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate is now investigating how to have measures for more demand response. Bioenergy and district heating also function perfectly as a control force. The Energy Commission has received a lot of information about all the possibilities available.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-205	Mr President, I would like to Nuclear power has been a track that we have already touched upon, and I would have put that discussion aside. But it has been something of an ideological playhouse from the Green Party with different kinds of power that you want to favor in different ways. In previous debates, for example, we have found that solar power will never be able to participate in the balance of power for our needs, at least not in winter. The proposals put forward are a string of different subsidies. It looks like an extension of the electricity licensing system towards 2030. It is a tax reduction for micro-producers and tax subsidies for solar investments. We are looking at new subsidies and support for those types of power that do not make it on a market-based basis. At the same time, they want different parts of the power system that contribute tax revenue to the state. Nuclear power annually delivers nearly 41⁄2 billion to the state's treasury. It is money that is disappearing and that has to be replaced by other priorities. As one colleague has already said to Lise Nordin, it is clear that we would probably have had a production surplus in Sweden, too, without much of the new power that has been subsidised into the system. It is also usual to highlight the availability of electricity exports to other countries, also given the increase in wind power production. Now it is noted that the cost of producing wind power is 50 øre per kilowatt hour. With 2014 figures, we exported net 15.6 terawa thh, and we received 4 billion in net trade for them. That's 25.6 øre per kilowatt hour. Then we have subsidised production which costs 50 øre per kilowatt hour and sells it for 25 øre. Who pays the difference of 25 cents for this electricity that we random away, and who benefits from it?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-210	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are critical of support for renewable energy. It's clear. But I miss the Swedish Democrats' response to how they want to ensure otherwise that Sweden has continued to produce electricity. Nuclear power is unprofitable even if the impact tax is completely removed. It is more expensive to build than renewable electricity production. With the market that we are facing today, how do the Swedish Democrats want to create the conditions for new investments in some form of electricity generation? It is, of course, critical of the support that the government imposes and which, according to most assessors, is the most cost-effective way. In what way do the Swedish Democrats want to keep nuclear power under their arms? Sweden has a large electricity surplus. Last year it was a record: 22.6 terawatt hours. That is about a third or a little more of the total production of nuclear power. The fact that we have such a large surplus today is due to the fact that we have expanded renewable energy. This gives us in Sweden an option to phase out some of the oldest and unprofitable nuclear power plants. My ambition and that of the Green Party is a transition to 100% renewable. We now see that the owners of the oldest reactors have decided to close them. These are decisions that I am not particularly surprised about. The reactors have been unprofitable for many years. The question is: How should we in Sweden ensure that we get new electricity production? In this respect, I think that all those who criticise support for renewable energy will be responsible for the answer. What's the alternative? How do we want to keep nuclear power under arms, the nuclear power which, with today's market, is unprofitable even without the impact tax?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-215	Mr President, I would like to I guess there was no direct answer to the question I asked. We get about 25 øre per kilowatt hour for the electricity we export. Lise Nordin talks about wind power, which has a production cost of 50 øre per kilowatt hour. There, Swedish electricity consumers may enter a difference of SEK 4 billion, as much as the value of that export. This is another subsidy that Swedish electricity consumers have to pay to the German and Danish industries and to the welfare of Denmark and Germany. If we are now to have a more weather-dependent force that will not contribute as much to the power balance and which will reduce the security of supply, the imbalance in production will increase even more. We are forced to export electricity during hours when we do not need the electricity produced. It will have a very low economic value but is subsidised by Swedish taxpayers and electricity consumers. That electricity we chance off to other countries. It is not sustainable to provide this type of indirect support to other countries. We force a production system that is not requested by Swedish electricity consumers and is not adapted to the needs of Sweden in the Swedish base industry. We in the Swedish Democrats think it is important to take into account the conditions prevailing in a cold country, where the big challenge is to overcome the differences between summer and winter. We have a much greater need for power in winter. Then we must also ensure that we have a market that invests in the needs we have instead of artificially bringing in forces that are not matched to the power demand that we in Sweden have over the year.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-219	Mr President, I would like to It is a strange calculation that Mattias Bäckström Johansson makes regarding the revenues we get from electricity exports. Sweden has a large electricity surplus. We do not know what kind of electricity is in the cables to our neighbours. The electrons for nuclear power and wind power look the same. You can't count on whether it's wind power or nuclear power we're exporting. We can say that the electricity surplus is so large that we have the opportunity to phase out any production in our own energy mix. The four reactors that owners have decided to close by 2020 have a total production of approximately 10 terawatt hours per year. The electricity surplus last year was 22.5 terawatt hours. We have great options, but the Green Party's vision is that we gradually have an orderly transition to 100% renewable energy. I hope and believe that all parties in this House support the fact that security of supply is a necessary requirement for our future energy system. But the debate is not as simplified as Mattias Bäckström Johansson is trying to make it sound. We have many technical possibilities. As I mentioned earlier, we have hydropower, energy storage, flexibility, cables to other countries and bioenergy. We have all the technical possibilities. Let us in the Energy Commission look at what is the smartest thing to use. The Swedish Democrats say here that the expansion of renewable energy is not required by Sweden's electricity consumers. Nothing could be more wrong! We know today that a large majority of the Swedish people – if I remember correctly about 80% – say that they are behind the target of 100% renewable energy. The Swedish people and the opinion we have in our country clearly indicate that they want Sweden and the Riksdag to invest in renewable energy. It is the most environmentally friendly, it is the safest, and today it is also the cheapest.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-223	Mr President, I would like to Energy is big politics and gas is the strongest weapon of the Russian power apparatus. Today, the relationship between the EU and Russia is quite different from that a few years ago. It was before the conflict in Ukraine, before the Russian takeover of Crimea and also before the EU's Energy Union. It is about Nord Stream 2, the proposal for new gas pipelines in the Baltic Sea, and the words I have just read come from Peter Eriksson, MEPs and party colleagues to Lise Nordin. I fully agree with Peter Eriksson in his concern about the new Russian gas pipelines. It's big politics. It is geopolitics, and it is very much about energy issues. I believe that this is one of the most important security policy issues of this year, which can have serious consequences if we do not deal with it properly. I am one of those who regret that the Alliance could not stop the first gas pipeline when it was up to date. Today we have a completely different security policy situation. Above all, we have a different climate and environmental policy situation. During the Paris Summit, we took a clearer stand against fossil energy. We also know that the bottom of the Baltic Sea has not improved. There are clear environmental aspects to this. And above all, we have a decision on an energy union in Europe that will make us less dependent on individual energy exporters. So this goes completely in the opposite direction. My question is: Can the Green Party and Lise Nordin consider supporting Peter Eriksson's wise line and doing everything you can to try to stop this other gas pipeline, Nord Stream 2?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-229	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased when the Liberals and the Green Party can agree on the need to phase out fossil energy. Nord Stream 2 is not part of this report, so I will honestly say that I do not have the details of what that process is like right now, but I will be happy to come back. I share my colleague Peter Eriksson's view that we should, of course, try to reduce Russia's energy power, which exists in Europe today, and that, for the Swedish part, we should reduce imports of Russian oil, gas and uranium. I can also note on this issue that the Energy Commission has pointed out that the best way to reduce fossil energy into the EU and to reduce our energy imports is to invest in renewable energy. I look forward to the EU continuing to invest more in the expansion of renewable energy and in energy efficiency as the most effective way of reducing the power that Russia has today through energy policy.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-232	Mr President, I would like to I would like to return to the question I raised and just point out that there will be a number of government decisions in the future where I think there will be an opportunity for the government to stop these plans as best as possible from the Swedish side. I very much hope that the Green Party can push for that in the government. As I said, there are a number of serious reasons for security policy. But there are also the energy policy aspects, which do not concern this report, but which definitely concern us who are involved in energy policy. It is precisely about the Energy Union and how, in this way, we would undermine one of the basic ideas of the Energy Union, which is about making us less dependent on individual energy exporters. This would make the EU more dependent on Russian gas, and that would be very unfortunate.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-234	Mr President, I would like to How positive that we can agree to reduce both Russia's power and fossil energy! What is most important, I would say, is that the European Union has a clear plan to phase out fossil energy in general. This is a management that is central to discussion, but there is a lot more that is important for reducing fossil energy. I would have liked the Liberals to have previously set themselves a sharper climate target that Sweden could pursue towards the EU and a higher binding target for renewable energy and energy efficiency. These elements are crucial for the EU to be able to work strongly with climate issues and reduce fossil energy and Russia's power through energy policy. Let us agree to maintain this climate commitment even when we discuss how to tighten up the EU's climate policy and the reduction of fossil energy!
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-238	Mr President, I would like to Before I go into what I was going to talk about, I have to say something about the balance of effects. I believe that the lakes that are on the board behind me will continue to be a large part of what we call the balance of effects. When I was at the Swedish power grid, it was safe to hear them say that it was a turbine in Harpångsverket that made us have 50 hertz on the net. It is about energy policy and the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on this very subject. The most interesting thing I have so far in my assignment as a Member of Parliament is the Energy Commission. I've been involved in knowledge acquisition and learned a lot about opportunities but also challenges that we face. If there is any country that should be able to make a cross-block agreement on electrical energy and hopefully also energy as a whole, it is our country, with our preconditions. In its 2016 budget proposal, Category 21 Energy, the Government has stated that the overall objective of energy policy is to ensure, in the short and long term, the availability of electricity and other energy on competitive conditions vis-à-vis the outside world. It is also an objective of a 100% renewable energy system in the long term. We in the Left Party naturally support this. But what can happen in the future is that the shift from fossil fuels in the transport sector – that is what cannot be electrified – to sustainable and renewable alternatives can take place sooner than planned. We think maybe you should take altitude for that. But as I started with, we have with our unique conditions, and in this case with the forest as a huge resource, no problem whatsoever with meeting that challenge as well. The Left Party has not submitted any motions on the energy policy issue for the simple reason that we want to give the Energy Commission an honest chance to try to reach an agreement on long-term rules for something as important for Sweden as industrialisation but also for our future generations, so that they can rely on energy supply being safe and sustainable. But it is also about everyone having access to it and that there should be comparable prices in relation to the outside world. But that said, it does not mean that we in the Left Party do not have an opinion on how we, as a party, view energy supply and what we regard as renewable, sustainable and safe. As everyone knows, we as a party pursued a line that is more ambitious than what, for example, the European Union and the government landed on emission targets, renewable targets and energy efficiency targets. I have been amused to read what the Alliance Energy Agreement of 2009, says, what many have lifted up today. I have looked specifically at the section on nuclear power. I'm going to quote a little bit-- it's about the reasons for the government's assessment: The Swedish reactors are normally ordered and delivered for a planned operation of 40 years. However, the technical lifetime may be shorter or longer, depending on how the plant is operated and maintained. The economic lifetime of an installation shall be determined by the duration of the economic viability of operating the plant with the necessary modernisations, including: to maintain safety. Swedish nuclear power plants have reached an age where modernisation investments need to be made for both safety and efficiency reasons. ..................................................... But then there are some more interesting things that I have to point out. I shall quote again: Important prerequisites for the continued operation of nuclear power are that safety requirements continue to be progressively tightened and that liability for accidents is tightened in accordance with the possibilities offered by existing international conventions. ..................................................... So here we can read that the state should not subsidise nuclear power without standing on its own feet. Then it is written about nuclear companies, that they have been able to increase the safety and availability of older reactors and that in many cases they have done so with profitable reinvestments. It points to global nuclear power plants. This is, therefore, the agreement to which the alliance parties refer largely in all motions. Well, that's pretty much the case, but there's one thing I find hard to understand in this context. Mr President, I would like to On the website you can read how the Center Party interprets this agreement – I'm a little surprised by this. It reads that the target is a fully renewable energy system in 2040 – I agree – and a society free of nuclear power, driven instead by energy that is 100% renewable. Nevertheless, if the costs can be borne, nuclear power has agreed to a generational change. And it points to an extension of the life span of nuclear power up to 60 years. I find it difficult to reconcile it with 100% renewable and nuclear-free. How can we then interpret the enormous lobbying that many people have been talking about, which points to the issue of the nuclear impact tax and that it should be phased out? Is it direct or indirect support that the Alliance itself is also allergic to in the deal they have from 2009 that everyone points to? I think it is appropriate, Mr President, for me to support the proposal contained in the report. I and the Left Party want to provide the conditions for stable foundations for investors and industry as well as a secure and secure energy supply for both current and future citizens in our fantastic country, where the conditions are closest to us and where it sometimes blows so that even a northerner seeks protection. We must then not forget our Norrland rivers, which have already paid the environmental price to provide the country with a large part of the electricity, but also with the effect and the much talked about swing mass, which we have learned about in the Energy Commission. When it comes to solutions for transport that cannot be electrified and the chemical industry and also for the balance of impacts, we have enormous opportunities with forests as a renewable resource. We who sit in the Energy Commission have a special responsibility to try our utmost, so that a broad deal is made. Then our children and grandchildren and future generations can read about history and see how wise those who sat in the Commission were anyway. And imagine, they can then say that it was politicians who agreed, those who are often pointed out by the public as self-righteous and as navel spectators.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-255	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister of State Isabella Lövin and Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-257	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Labour. The Minister said in Agenda last Sunday: a system in which politicians legislate on wages will lead straight to the beeping. That's a dangerous way to go. But at the same time as the Minister for Labour says this, the government is making a proposal on minimum wages as a requirement for public procurement. It is very much a way of legislating on wages. Not only that, but the legislative process also wants to regulate a number of conditions which are usually left to the social partners.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-261	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify to Maria Stenergard how it works. It is the social partners who negotiate and agree on wages. At the moment, 500 new agreements are to be concluded, and this is a rather nervous atmosphere among the social partners for this reason. The Government does not decide and the Riksdag does not legislate on salaries. On the other hand, the Government makes regulations and the Riksdag, through legislation, lays down rules on what should apply to the labour market. For example, they may require collective agreements to exist and collective agreements to be respected. Collective agreements provide for minimum wages. The level of them is negotiated each time the agreements are to be negotiated. Rules on whether to impose collective agreements are, of course, something that the parliament and government should decide on, but the content of them is up to the parties to decide.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-265	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. No, what the Minister says about making demands of collective agreements is not true. It is contrary to EU law. You can make demands according to collective agreements, and then the government wants to make demands on wages. Then I wonder what's the difference. The government says one thing-- we don't want to legislate on wages-- but do another thing.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-268	Mr President, I would like to In the same way as the old government in its eight years made demands for labour market policy wage support – to comply with collective agreement conditions to be eligible for wage support – demands can be made for compliance with collective agreement conditions to be met in public procurement. It has nothing to do with legislation on the level of wages.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-269	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. As we all know, there have been a record number of immigrants coming to our country over the past year, which poses, to say the least, major challenges for our country. One of these challenges is getting all these people to work. The government's response has usually been fast track. But is it really possible to reconcile fast-track education, for example in health care, with quality and patient safety? I am thinking primarily of language skills. I have worked 25 years in health care with both nurses and doctors. Some of them have received their education outside the EU. I note that I share Professor Gunlög Josefsson's experience that it is not possible to force language learning.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-274	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question is yes. Many professions in health care are legitimate professions. This means that in order to get a job in the profession, you must achieve the skills and language skills required to obtain the licence. The speed with which the required skills can be achieved can of course vary depending on the individual's prior knowledge and ability to quickly learn the new. What society can do is to ensure that it does not waste time unnecessarily because of unnecessary waiting times in the process. Then it is always, as in all learning processes, up to the individual to make an effort to acquire this knowledge so that you meet the high demands – I think they should be high – on skills and language skills to get permission to work in the health care system and get their identification.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-276	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The answer doesn't really make me as calm as I hoped it would. It should be remembered that for doctors and nurses it is not just about writing records in correct Swedish. It's about so much more. For example, they should be able to read what the patient expresses when it comes to pain, anxiety, and anxiety. It is usually said that the doctor's main diagnostic tool is the conversation with the patient. That's right.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-278	Mr President, I would like to The government has not proposed any reductions in language requirements in order to be able to work in health care and has no plans whatsoever to do so. For several years, we have had a situation of long waiting times before people get to do different tests so that the National Board of Health and Welfare will first assess the grades they have submitted. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of passivity during the waiting period that has been harmful. Now, together with the parties, we have come to the conclusion that it will be faster to validate and that, while working to achieve the knowledge, it will also be possible to practice.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-280	Mr President, I would like to I turn to the Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke, with my question. We are often proud of how good children have it in Sweden, and of course we should be. Much is good, but many children are still discriminated against in Sweden. Often these are children who are in particularly vulnerable situations, children with disabilities, children in economically vulnerable families, asylum seekers' children and children placed in society's care. In order to influence your situation and be involved, it is important that you have access to information, not least regarding your rights. When you ask children in grade 8 if they know their rights, one in five responds that they have heard of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and only 6% knew what it said.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-285	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the very important question. This is something I am working on right now, namely how to strengthen our children's and young people's knowledge of their rights and obligations in democratic society. An important part is the democratic dialogue. Over the past few months, the Swedish Media Council has been given a commission dealing with media and information literacy. Many of our young people are spending more and more time online and in various social forums. In particular, it is important that there is knowledge. We also need to develop the materials and bases for our teachers. Therefore, I have also initiated and had meetings together with the Swedish National Media Council and the Swedish National Agency for Education to identify what is missing in both teacher education and in the materials that teachers have in order to form an arena where children can learn this.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-289	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. That sounds really great. Nevertheless, I have to ask why it was decided to reject the Liberal Party motion that children should have access to targeted and accessible information about their rights. Among other things, we had in mind that it should be available online, in sports facilities and in schools. It is not only a question of knowing what rights and obligations you have, but also of knowing how to use them.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-291	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to look at what is already being done and what is going on. I look forward to having further discussions on how we strengthen this area, for that is what we urgently need. So I look forward to further discussions on this.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-293	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. In the debate on the Host Nation Support Agreement, which is currently being prepared by the government, there are some spectacular statements and data circulating. For example, it is said that with this agreement we would open up the storage of nuclear weapons, NATO bases and the granting of impunity to foreign soldiers. The fact that we are discussing and debating our defence policy cooperation in general and cooperation with NATO in particular is quite natural, but it is important that the debate is based on a solid, factual basis. My question to the Minister for Defence is therefore whether there is anything in the host country support agreement that forces Sweden to abandon our national self-determination.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. There are important things to discuss in these days. The host country agreement with NATO is based on the fact that there is not a single combat vehicle or a single soldier's boot, life belt or uniform on Swedish territory without the invitation of a Swedish government. That's the basic thing-- nothing happens without an invitation. The sovereignty is intact. The military freedom of alliance is intact. The host country agreement does not concern nuclear weapons either; it is not about that. But it is also important to say that the Swedish line is that there should not be nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. We will not open the door to that in any sense. NATO bases will not be established unless it is an exercise to which we are invited, which is already taking place today. The agreement contributes to administrative simplification in this context.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-299	Mr President, I would like to I have a brief supplementary question. Can the agreement be interpreted to some extent as being part of NATO's defence doctrine?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-300	Mr President, I would like to No. We are not subject to NATO's self-defence obligations under Section 5 of the NATO Charter. There is no such connection. You cannot be a 25% or 50% member of NATO, but either you are a member of NATO or you are not a member of NATO. We are not members, but we are part of the partnership. Today, 25 countries have such host country agreements, including Finland. Our process is coordinated with the Finnish process.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-302	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister for Labour a question. Sami Alsalloum is a very good eye doctor. He has fled Damascus and is now in Falun. There he has been granted a residence permit, and during the time that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's process requires him to have his Swedish licence, he has received a substitute as a nurse. According to his boss, he's extremely good as a nurse. When his substitute was now to be extended – it is a job freeze in the county council – Kommunal went in and said that this is not accepted by Kommunal because he does not have the competence to work as a nurse. My question to the Minister for Labour is whether she shares the view that an ophthalmologist from Syria, whose manager says he is extremely competent, lacks the skills to work as a nurse. What does the Minister of Labour think about a trade union acting like this?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-305	Mr President, I would like to We had a question about fast track here earlier. My view is that I think it's good that you work as a nurse while waiting to get your ID so that you can work in your proper profession. I assume that both the individual and the employer want nothing more than that the process of being legitimised and able to work in their proper profession should go as soon as possible.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-306	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Labour's answer is pleased, because it opens up an opportunity for the licensed nurses and doctors we have in the country to find other jobs in health care pending a licence from the National Board of Health and Welfare. I also hope that the Minister for Labour will ensure that party friends and, above all, representatives of Kommunal, not least in Falun and at Falu Lasarett, realise that this is a direct counterproductive action in a situation where we have an enormous challenge in terms of integration.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-307	Mr President, I would like to I think that Anders W. Jonsson is making an unnecessarily big issue of this. The person is employed as a nurse. The employer has made his choice. I think that is right, and I assume that the employer will ensure that he can move on as soon as possible from nursing to his real profession as a doctor.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-309	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. It is widely known that we have entered a new security situation with regard to our defence capabilities, and a whole new threat has emerged in recent years – not least after the annexation of Crimea and the crisis in Ukraine. This makes the value of an effective and good defence increasingly important, especially since we are still not part of the NATO defence alliance. I am really concerned when I take note of reports that show problems with the recruitment of new soldiers here in Sweden. Perhaps an even greater problem is that an excessive proportion ends prematurely, sometimes in the final phase of education. My question, therefore, is: what is the government doing to face this problem?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-312	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. As for the threat issue, I am pleased that the Moderates have come to adapt to the realities. It was difficult for the previous government to see the changes that took place in Russia. As far as the recruitment of soldiers is concerned, we already pointed out when the Parliament was to decide on the new staff supply system that this type of defection problem would probably arise, as well as difficulties in getting complete and trained units. That's how it is now. Therefore, we have appointed an investigation under the direction of Annika Nordgren Christensen, who will deliver an investigation results later this year. We are looking at the Norwegian and Danish models, which combine a professional defence with a military defence.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is good to look at this, because it is very important that we do not end up in a situation where we cannot find enough soldiers. With regard to the historical situation with both the old military service system and who has done what are we in a completely new situation. That is why we have made a defence settlement for the future, and we will probably have to make a new one in the near future if we are to become relevant.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-316	Mr President, I would like to When the investigation into the supply of personnel based on professionalism and military service comes, I hope that the Moderates will reconsider and may be prepared to reason on re-establishing part of the defense as a duty system. I can give you that invitation right now. This is what you removed at one time, but it probably requires a correction of the staff supply for it to function fully.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-318	Mr President, I would like to I turn to the Secretary of State. I have the privilege of representing the Parliament of the Interparliamentary Union. That's where we meet people from all over the world. In this case, I am thinking of those who live and live in the island nations of the Pacific region. We'll see them again in a couple of weeks. I know that the Minister for Development has recently been in these parts of the world. I would therefore like to ask what emerged at the meetings about how Sweden could actually help these countries to be better equipped for the challenges of climate change.
i-LiQfCGhxr8vimuzhsMSwZn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Krister Eagle feather for the question! Last week I visited the Pacific region to return visits made by Kiribati and the Presidents of the Marshall Islands in Sweden last year to cooperate and find points of contact to push the climate issue forward for the Paris climate summit. My visit was about following up on that cooperation and seeing for yourself the enormous challenges of the Pacific states with sea-level rise and extreme weather conditions. The cyclone that struck Fiji the day after we left the region shows the enormous challenges of these small, fragile and very vulnerable states. The people there are completely dependent on the sea and natural resources for their survival.
i-3Kd1BpsxLdbvZc8cqmES4n	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that part of the answer! What, then, does the Minister for Development think that Sweden and not least the entire international community could do in practical terms in order to hopefully bring about a better situation?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-323	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a major donor to, among other things, the Green Climate Fund and the Adaptation Fund. And we have a regional strategy for Asia where we now also include the Pacific Islands. Above all, it is a matter of helping them to protect their water, which is now threatened by saltwater penetration due to the rise in sea level, and of strengthening infrastructure, which is now extremely exposed to both storms and sea level rise.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-324	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Secretary of Defense. Is that surprising? The first question I had intended to ask about the host country agreement has already been asked. Possibly, I had thought that I would have some time perspective on when it might come about. But I would like to raise another question. Now we have seen the Alliance with the Moderates at the head completely demolish the Swedish defence, and in some pieces the Moderates have expressed contempt for those who are employed in the defence. Now that there is a majority for the introduction of military service, training places and terrain, it requires a review of what lies in the decommissioning of exercise areas and terrain to enable this. My question to the Minister for Defence is whether he intends to stop these decommissionings so that we have the opportunity to think about whether we should continue with some decommissioning and stop other things.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-329	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. There is a lot that needs to be reviewed in the event that we get into a situation where we are going to reintroduce military service as part of a staff supply system. It's about how we're going to handle squad training with the officers. It is about new types of work and the role of the professional soldiers in it. It is about material issues, personal issues and exercise issues. That is a wide range of such questions. Of course, it also includes training areas. I think we need to take a holistic approach to all of this. It's too soon than to say we're going to do exactly this or that, but we're going to have to wait for the investigation. Once it has put its papers on the table, we will have to come back with a strategy for how we proceed.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-332	Mr President, I would like to In the new education system, which has started now and which I think will be launched this summer with the regulations and so on, there are designated training places. I am sure the Minister for Defence will ensure that one investigating this connects these things so that the proposed training places can also be trained. But I guess it's within the framework of what you just said.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-333	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for further discussion on this. All these parts must be phased into a working whole. This applies to all the parts that I pointed out in my previous speech, and of course also includes training places and terrain.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-335	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Bah Ku h nke. Yesterday was the day of the Swedish Finns. Since 2009 in this Parliament, minority policy and minority languages have been subject to these legal rules. In 2009, we decided on eight municipalities that would act as administrative areas, i.e. assume a responsibility to help our minorities through the law so that they can use their original language in contact with authorities, elderly care, preschools and the like. Today, the administrative areas are 75, and I am pleased to say so. Last June, the government gave the task of reviewing how it works. The report came on 29 January, but unfortunately the government has until then halted the application process for new administrative areas. My question to the Government is: Why?
i-97xugeG9TZ369vCo9o6Yjb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annicka Engblom, for the question! Ever since I took office as Minister of Culture and Democracy and at my first meeting with national minorities, they have all expressed criticism of how we live up to the law on national minorities. This is precisely why a number of reviews have been carried out on the use of the state contribution to the administrative municipalities. These bases have now come in. We analyze and prepare them in the Government Office. However, I have also announced that we will investigate the law on national minorities, because it is a law that is important, and the basic protection in it will live up to all municipalities, whether they are administrative municipalities or not. That is why we have made a clear statement that as long as we do not have administrative municipalities that treat people equally, we will not extend them.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-339	Mr President, I would like to I think that's a bit of a pity. I've been around, just like the government, and I can confirm that it works very differently. Some are doing well and others are doing less well. But to halt the desire to create new administrative areas is a pity. My old hometown of Västerås is now being praised for being the best administrative municipality. But in my constituency of Blekinge there are a lot of Finns who might want to join this.
i-Xv5f6RSQ9jUderytfhPdst	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annicka Engblom, for the continuing question! I know that there are more than Members of Parliament who find it unfortunate that we are halting. I therefore believe it is incredibly important that I and we all continue the discussion with the potential administrative municipalities, but also that we keep civil society, i.e. all national minorities and their organisations, warm and show the good will. The next step we take will be a better step for the national minorities and for all of us.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-343	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Labour and Integration Ylva Johansson. For successful integration into Swedish society, we Christian Democrats believe that it is important to stick to the work line. During the Alliance, we created a new labour market with easier jobs in the RUT and ROT industries. Now we are facing a huge challenge with the large number of asylum seekers and newcomers in Sweden who need jobs. Unfortunately, many simple jobs are missing, and entry wages are high. The unemployment rate of foreign born children is already 21.8 per cent, while that of natives is 4.8 per cent. We Christian Democrats believe that radical measures are now needed to create many simple jobs, because 50% of those who come do not have an upper secondary education and need to get a foothold on the labour market. Then I wonder: Does the Minister share the problem picture that it is a major challenge now and that action is needed? And how does the Minister intend to get jobs for everyone who comes to Sweden?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-347	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Désirée Pethrus, we face great challenges. There will be many people who have a low level of education and may never have worked. At the same time, there are people with high skills. Previously, we had a question about an ophthalmologist. It is therefore important to have several perspectives at the same time, because all perspectives are needed to meet the challenges. For people who have a low or no professional background or level of education, we will need new action. It is a group that today is quite small in the Swedish labour market. A good example of such an effort is the fast track that Kommunal, together with SKL and the healthcare companies, have agreed on. Persons who have experience in caring for a loved one are validated in relation to the requirements for working as a care assistant in the care of the elderly. It is also linked to training courses so that they meet the requirements for working as a nurse.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-350	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. After two years, only 5% of those participating in the so-called establishment reform, with a large number of measures from the Employment Service, receive regular work. It's far too little. After 15 years, 30 per cent of foreign-born people are still unemployed. Radical action is needed. We have proposed introductory positions, which are a completely new form of employment with 25% under collective bargaining pay. What does the Minister say about that?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-353	Mr President, I would like to Désirée Pethrus paints the effects of the policies in place even worse than I would do. But I share the view that we have very big problems, and that is why the government is working on major changes to the establishment reform. We have already made some changes. We have, among other things, removed the poorly functioning pilots and introduced other things, such as fast tracks. We are also working on major changes to the establishment reform. Employment services should continue to have a responsibility, but the content must be much more effective.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-356	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Ylva Johansson. We have recently been able to read that the government intends to take the initiative for a new national programme in which efforts will be directed to the group of new arrivals and unaccompanied minors and to deal widely with gender equality and the position of women and men and also cover issues related to the prevention of violence. The details of this initiative are not yet designed, but it has been described as training and information. Is there anything else at present to inform about these actions, such as whether they should come early? What is the timetable for implementing a more concrete proposal?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-360	Mr President, I would like to In a situation where many new people flee to Sweden, it is important that we make efforts so that the values that are basic and hold our country together are strengthened. Our values of equality, people's equal value and children's rights are actually one of the reasons why many people choose to flee to Sweden. It is therefore important that we maintain and strengthen the values that are important to keep Sweden together. One way to do this is to go in with social action already during the asylum period. Unfortunately, we have a situation with long processing times because many people have applied for asylum at the same time. Another part is about the unaccompanied teenagers. They come to school and perhaps need other efforts there.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-364	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ylva Johansson for his answer. There is information that Norway and Finland have introduced the kind of early training for new arrivals that I mentioned. Is there any experience of how it has worked that can be used in the design of similar interventions in Sweden?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-366	Mr President, I would like to It is always interesting to learn from other countries, but few countries have such a broad and long experience of receiving new arrivals and integrating into society as Sweden has. We are far ahead, but we will have to do even more, not least in a situation where many come to Sweden at the same time. We will come back with proposals for interventions in schools, for early intervention during the asylum period and for how we can improve quality and ensure that the social orientation that is mandatory in the establishment mission can achieve better results.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-368	Mr President, I would like to Last week, some 20 Members of Parliament visited Ethiopia. It was the largest parliamentary delegation ever from Sweden. We met a country where the economy is growing rapidly and where social progress is being made. But it is also clear that human rights developments are going backwards. Since 2015, the opposition does not have a single seat in the Ethiopian Parliament. Sweden is needed with long-term, courageous and predictable support, not least for civil society and work on human rights. The current strategy for Sweden's development work with Ethiopia was written more than 13 years ago and expired in 2007. After that, it has been extended for one year at a time. A new, up-to-date and forward-looking approach is certainly needed.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-372	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Linde for the question. It is true that the strategy that has long been in place for Sweden's development cooperation with Ethiopia is old; it was adopted in 2003. Since we took office as a government, we have been working on a new strategy to update the results and proposals that have been available. We will very soon adopt a new strategy with a strong focus on democracy and human rights, precisely to support civil society whose space today is shrinking. Unfortunately, we are seeing a decline in this area. Furthermore, the environment and climate are an area that needs to be strengthened. Ethiopia is currently facing major challenges in the form of drought and famine. Economic development is also important because unemployment is high.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Pending the new strategy for Swedish aid to Ethiopia, urgent action is needed due to the extreme drought that has hit the country. It is said that 10 million people are in urgent need of humanitarian aid. According to Anneka Knutsson at the Swedish Embassy, SEK 2.5 billion is needed for food supply until the summer. And it is becoming urgent if food aid is to reach out to those affected. Is the Minister of Aid prepared to provide more humanitarian aid to the victims of drought in Ethiopia?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-379	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Linde for the question. It is within Sida's competence to provide additional funding to the country framework for the humanitarian efforts that are needed, and I think it is underway. We are very concerned about the famine and drought that has struck Ethiopia. Ethiopia is Africa's second most populous country with great population growth and huge challenges.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-383	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Culture. The 80 million that the government invests in museum activities is not really an investment, but it is money that allows me, for example, to go into various museums in Stockholm for free. If you ask government and private museum managers, they have ideas and implement projects in exclusion areas in our suburbs. They take the art there to meet people who don't go to museums. Now that the Minister for Culture has managed to get SEK 80 million from the Minister for Finance, why does she not invest them in expanded activities instead of throwing them away at me and other Stockholm ladies who still go to museums? It is the visiting frequency of the Stockholm ladies that increases when there is free admission. Last time it was we who went even more times, and there were no new visitors. Why throw away this money?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-388	Mr President, I would like to I thank Isabella Hökmark for the question. On 1 January, the free-entry reform was introduced, and the museum directors, with whom I have almost daily contact, testify to a tremendous success. Do you know what they also testify to? They testify to new visitors and new groups of visitors. I look forward to continuing to discuss this issue. I hope that the Member of Parliament will then be as eager to highlight this initiative as we already see giving the results we have longed for. The last time the free-entry reform was introduced, one could see that there were more visitors, but one could not see exactly who came. There were no identity checks at the entrances. But the methods have been developed. The museum managers and all the competent staff, who want our treasures to be open to everyone and that it should be free to take part of them, testify that they have methods, tactics and more languages to meet visitors with. This could be my greatest success as Minister of Culture and Democracy. It's not wasted money.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-394	Mr President, I would like to Let's hope the Minister for Culture is right. It's a distortion. Private museums, which do an enormous amount for jobs and are working, do not benefit from any of the subsidies. You have introduced free admission from 1 February, the Minister of Culture. In December, you said that only the basic exhibitions would be covered, but now I have read in the regulation letter that it also applies to special exhibitions. I therefore wonder: do you run it in the 80 million kroner, or will you provide additional money to comply with the amended directive?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-397	Mr President, I would like to As Minister of Culture and Democracy, it is incredibly important that I be in close contact with, interact and speak with my Heads of Government. When we took the balance that 80 million would make a difference, it was after such talks. What we can already see is that the money is enough for more than we thought at first. They have made their methods more efficient and better at everything we want you to do. You know what we see too? There is an increase in sales in the cafés, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and shops. This will be a success, the Member of Parliament. We'll have to discuss it a lot.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-400	Mr President, I would like to I put my question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. The government has decided that state authorities will offer unpaid internships for new arrivals. Traineeships are a very positive thing, but this includes 1 000 people. This is clearly insufficient given the challenge we face with many new arrivals. Those who have a low level of education in the Swedish labour market find it very difficult to get a place there. That is why we in the Liberals have proposed a new form of employment, starting a job, which means lower entry wages for newly arrived young people on the first job and halved costs for employers. These jobs are about providing people with contacts and knowledge. It is better that people have a job with a lower starting salary to go to than that they should go home and be unemployed and go on benefits. More people will be allowed to contribute instead of living on subsidies. Criticism hasn't been waiting for it. The Swedish Democrats say no. LO says no. The red-green government says no. My question is: Why is it good to practice without pay but bad with work with pay?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-406	Mr President, I would like to New arrivals who are going into the Swedish labour market need contacts, just as Mats Persson says, because they often miss them. They need to get out in a real workplace and do real work because it is the best way to get a real job. How do you achieve it? We know a few things where there is pretty clear evidence of what works. I would like to point out two points. Getting a job, even if it is with wage support – that is, the employer does not pay the full wage cost, but it becomes cheaper for the employer to hire – is one of the measures that is known to work and has a good effect on the money. Another thing that is known to work is effective employment services, i.e. help with contacts. New arrivals may not have their own network of contacts to allow them to enter. Both of these things are important. Internships also have good evidence when it comes to getting out and getting contacts. Evidence of lower wages working for newcomers in the labour market is rather weak.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It must be troubling to the Minister for Labour that the government's own expert body, the Council of Finance Policy, says that lower entry wages are one of the most important answers for more new arrivals to get jobs. My question remains: why is it good to practice without pay but bad with work with pay?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-414	Mr President, I would like to We may have to correct Mats Persson. The Council of Finance Ministers says that there is probably no evidence to show clearly that reducing wages would make it easier for people to enter the labour market. What we do know, however – now it is my words and not the Council of Finance Policy – is that lower wages give lower incomes to those who receive them. Already today, many people in the Swedish labour market find it difficult to get the wage enough because they are forced to make a living on part-time jobs and fixed-term contracts that make them not get an entire income. It is important for the government to be able to live on their wages.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-418	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Development. I am extremely pleased that the Minister for Development visited Somalia recently. The visit has been described very positively in the media. The Minister for Development co-chairs the international dialogue on peace and state building. I wonder what strategies Sweden has to support the further construction of the country and how the Minister sees that the diaspora can participate in the work.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-421	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders Österberg for the question. It was an extremely appreciated visit to Somalia. It was not easy to get there because of the security situation in Mogadishu and in Somalia as a whole. We have a much appreciated cooperation there. Our Swedish ambassador is doing a fantastic job and is present every week. The ambassador works closely with the government and also works with the organisations that exist in the country to strengthen the democratic forces that are now working for an election to take place this year. We work with institution building. We're also working on seconding people to the government. Several of our diaspora Swedes work today in the Government Office in Mogadishu.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-425	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a small country, which, however, plays a major role for many people and states around the world. My second question remains: how does the Minister see that we can share the diaspora? We have a large Somali diaspora here in Sweden. How can we allow them to be involved in the reconstruction of Somalia?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-427	Mr President, I would like to It was very fun to enter Villa Somalia, as the government district of Mogadishu is called, and there encounters not only Swedish-speaking Somalis but also Norwegian-speaking and others. The Somali diaspora is very interested in coming back and building the country. It is very positive energy around state building. It is slow and laborious work, but it is still producing results today. The use of the diaspora is extremely valuable.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-431	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The Minister is responsible for democracy and human rights as well as for the government's policy against discrimination, racism and intolerance. As a faithful reader of Svenska Dagbladet, I read with dismay what the journalist and author Nuri Kino wrote about harassment and religious persecution of Christians in Swedish refugee homes. I assume that the Minister for Culture has already drawn attention to this difficult problem, which has to do with democracy, discrimination and the fundamental rights of every person. How does the Minister's commitment look more concrete when it comes to stopping this kind of persecution on our Swedish asylum accommodations?
i-NFzSCdoDZKfnMsto3ATeuH	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Abrahamsson, for the question. It is a terrible situation that many find themselves in. I was as upset as Maria Abrahamsson when I read the article in Svenska Dagbladet. What we do in concrete terms is to emphasise that abuse, threats and harassment, wherever they occur in our society, should be reported. These are police measures to be implemented. We must never take steps away from that, but they must be reported to the police – this is central. But we also need to do a lot more. We need to work with civil society organisations. For a few months now, we have started a matter of civil society. One issue that has come up there is precisely what is happening on the premises, what the environment is and what both children and adults are exposed to. Civil society organisations are very clear.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-440	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, but I am still calling for a little more detail on what the Minister for Democracy is doing. After all, persecution is taking place here and now at our Swedish asylum accommodations. I'd like some kind of concreteness, please.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-441	Mr President, I would like to Let me be specific: we are working on an action plan. Together with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman, we will develop concrete measures for how we will work and deal with this issue on the residents, but also outside the residents. It's as concrete as it gets.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-442	Mr President, I would like to For a few years with voluntary recruitment to the soldier profession, the Swedish intervention organisation has grown cautiously, but still grown, for a number of years. Last year, 2015, the Swedish Armed Forces' annual report showed that this trend has now been broken. Now the number of soldiers in the army forces, in the air forces and in our marine forces is decreasing. I believe that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist is the first to confirm that we are in a particularly serious international situation. Conscription is not abolished. It's dormant. All relevant legislation is in place, and the only thing required is a simple government decision by at least five ministers.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-445	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, and thank you for Allan Widman's commitment! Since Widman belonged to the majority who removed military service, I find this interesting. Of course it is as you say: There are problems with recruitment, and there are problems with dressing up. I don't really have a different view of reality. That is also why we set up the investigation that Annika Nordgren Christensen is now conducting and that I have touched on earlier today. We are not prepared to take action until this investigation is presented, because we want this thoroughly worked out with a viable system and with a whole that we know we can stand for. It should be as good as possible that in future this will have the positive effect that we are looking for. We are prepared to take action, but first we want a thorough investigation material so that we know what we are doing.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-449	Mr President, I would like to It is with deep regret that I see that the Minister for Defence is sending the question of Swedish personnel supply to the future for a number of years. I can only conclude that he will deliberately accept that for a number of years the Swedish defence will remain unattended.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-450	Mr President, I would like to There must be personnel to train troops. There must be some equipment. There must be intended training areas. It's a whole series of practicalities that need to be sorted out if this is going to work. You have to have a working system at the bottom. That is why we need to look seriously into this and come back with a proposal. I want to implement something that is feasible and that stands. I think Widman is sloppy about the situation with his demands here.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-452	Mr President, I would like to I ask my question to the Minister for Culture, as I did a year ago. Now, as then, it will be about increasing the funding for our assembly halls, that is, for our district farms. The Minister then told me that this was something that the government had ambitions to pursue. The Minister himself, personally, looked forward to pursuing a policy for a living civil society throughout Sweden, where the community yards are an important link. Of this, however, there was nothing. On the contrary, in your budget for this year you have reduced 1 1⁄2 million in rural areas. You have invested this money on the officials of Boverket and on their salaries. You must think that's wrong, don't you? As you write in the budget, you have not maintained the activities that exist today.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-456	Mr President, I would like to Just now, just before I got here, I received Dan Ericsson's civil society investigation. There are 540 pages on how we can take the next step in civil society policy. The former, and the one on which we base the current civil society policy, was adopted by Parliament in 2009. The government has high ambitions for civil society. We have shown this in the budget. We have invested hundreds of millions of SEK in agreements with the other democratic parties in the Riksdag, but we have also strengthened civil society in many other parts. It is central to civil society policy that there are meeting places and places to meet on and in. It is also something that civil society organisations and representatives talk about a lot. You need meeting places. It's about everything from having one's meetings to rehearsing with one's bands, dread or whatever one is doing in civil society organisations. There are several different channels to ensure that there are meeting places. One of the major investments we are making right now is 130 million to something called Own room.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-460	Mr President, I would like to In the letter of regulation that we read in your budget, it is clear that 1 1⁄2 million of the money that will go to the townyards and assembly halls may be allocated for the administration and salaries of those who work at Boverket. This means taking money from, not least, the important integration, which the community farms represent. There you can cook, learn Swedish, dance and have children's activities. It's taking money from the townyards.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-462	Mr President, I would like to The village yards are important meeting places in Swedish society. They will continue to be. They are not only dependent on Boverket, but they are dependent on the whole community around and on the local community. They depend, for example, on functional models of cultural cooperation, where we add the money that the bourgeois parties took away from the previous budget. There are many good conditions for the rural gardens, together with other parts of civil society, to be in brighter times than before and to have a bright future.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-465	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. The government seems to be somewhat out of sync with certain moves that are being made, not least in the area of migration. It has received quota refugees from the EU while wishing other EU countries to receive people who have already come to Sweden. One minister says that we should reject 80 000 people who have no right to reside in our country while another minister says that we should open up more legal ways here. I would like the Minister to respond to what many people are asking today in view of the government's naivety. If the government is allowed to decide – will Sweden ever go back to the extremely liberal migration policy that prevailed before?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-468	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel accuses the government of being naive. It has been a year at a time when we see worse disasters in the world than we have done in a very long time – perhaps ever – and when people are forced to flee from war, terror and abuse to an extent that we have not seen since the Second World War. Then Sweden has stood up and received and given protection to people in the way that every decent country should do. We also have, at a time when we see that other countries in the EU are failing and do not share this responsibility together with Sweden, a government that is able to make very tough decisions to also manage and manage a good reception of those we have received. The government is anything but naive on these issues.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-470	Mr President, I would like to I regret that the Minister did not answer the question. She may return with an answer if you wish to go back. Yes, the government has been naive. The government does not take responsibility for the refugee situation. This is not done when you take up to 30% of the aid budget from the most vulnerable people around the world to pay for people who have crossed seven eight or more safe countries on their way to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the Minister will be happy to answer my original question.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-473	Mr President, I would like to I will. This government will never conduct an asylum policy that is insensitive to what is happening in the rest of the world.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-474	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. There is a difference between having a roof over your head and finally feeling at home. Home pregnancy requires more factors and, above all, takes a long time. If you have been forced to flee and have left your roots in the place where you grew up, it may take time to accept all that has befallen you. Of course, it is also a question of new friendships, the feeling of security and the well-being of children, but it is also a question of the desire of the majority society for mutual integration. Having a roof over your head, getting educated, learning Swedish and getting a job is what is called establishment. If we support people with it, the way to homeliness will also be easier. My question to the Minister for Labour is about the new assignment that she has been given to establish new arrivals in Sweden. What is the mission, and what will be the main priorities?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-477	Mr President, I would like to I have been given greater responsibility and great confidence to manage and facilitate the work of the government in a situation that is unique. We have received more people than we have ever done in a year's time. In a short time, Sweden will therefore both ensure that people have an opportunity to enter Swedish society, become part of it, and get obligations and rights in the same way as for everyone who already exists here. This is happening at the same time as Sweden is growing extremely fast. The population is increasing because more children are born in Sweden, because we live longer and because many people have sought refuge here. This means that issues that are not normally integration issues have now become relevant in a completely different way than before. My mission is to ensure that the different parts of the state and government interact in the way that municipalities, civil society and individuals can demand.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-480	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am thinking a little about the priorities that will need to be made next in order to ensure that new arrivals get the establishment to which they are entitled in our society. What will have to be done next, apart from the efforts already made, does the Minister think?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-482	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that housing, entry into the labour market, the expansion of schools and the provision of teachers are a high priority. But I would also like to point out the need for us to ensure that several things can happen at the same time. Consider the example of unaccompanied minors. There were 35,000 unaccompanied teenagers last year. There are a lot of things that have to work at the same time. This is handled in the municipalities, but the municipalities also request that the government's efforts be coordinated.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-485	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. Unfortunately, Sweden has also suffered radicalisation and violent extremism. More than 300 people have travelled to the conflict area. This shows that we have major problems in many of our locations, not least Örebro and Gothenburg, but also Stockholm, where there are environments that radicalise and encourage young people to join jihadist movements. There are also organisations, communities, which unfortunately encourage violent extreme views.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-487	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the question! It is totally unacceptable that we should engage in encouraging violence at all, and there is definitely no basis for an organisation that calls for violence to receive state subsidies. It is clear, and it is in all the guidelines. I used to be the Director-General of the authority that distributes these state aids, and it is very clear in the guidelines that you have the right to withdraw funds if attention is paid to the need. But then it is important that we, as ministers, point this out and make this clear in the official dialogue we have with our authorities and draw their attention to this paragraph that you have the right to withdraw funds. In addition, it is incredibly important that we have a dialogue with civil society organisations – I am also responsible for civil society policy – about what actually applies and how important it is that we interact from the different parts of society on these issues. Radicalisation must be stopped.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-489	Mr President, I would like to Recently, representatives of a community in Halland made homophobic statements, and that community did not get rid of its state contribution. There are also other examples, for example in Gävleborg County, where the Swedish Board for State Aid to Faith Communities did not receive any money, but they receive other types of support. The county council engages and involves representatives and thus gives them legitimacy.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-491	Mr President, I would like to Of course we should have the rules and regulations that we have and which are very clear. They will remain, and they will be clear. But this shows that laws and rules are not enough, but we must also work with the words and values, knowledge about this – what does this mean? – because that is unacceptable. If you receive state aid, you get tax money, the business will have its bottom line in our democratic values. End of point.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-494	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. At the moment, the government is doing important work on the Sami Convention. If I have understood correctly, this means working together with Norway and Finland and with the Sami people in all the countries. How is the work on the Sami Convention progressing, where are you in the work and where does the Minister for Democracy think it will eventually land?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-496	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Veronica Lindholm, for the question. The Nordic Sami Convention is a work that has been going on for a long time. For decades, it has been said that we need a Sami policy that is also adapted for Sápmi, for Sweden, Norway and Finland and for the specific challenges that exist here. Work has been going on intensively. Sweden is currently the country holding the presidency. At the next meeting, we will hand over to Finland, and hopefully Finland will take the job to goal. It will require a great deal of work. The question will then also come to Parliament, because it will be a task for Parliament to ratify the convention. It's a delicate task. We have worked well and hard, and I have good hopes that we will finish in the near future.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-499	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Democracy for his answer. I am a Westerner, and I know that in the northern counties there are some preconceived ideas. What is the difference between the Sami Convention and the ILO 169? Could the Minister clarify that?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-500	Mr President, I would like to In simple terms, the ILO 169 is an indigenous convention. It applies to all indigenous peoples of the world. The Nordic Sami Convention can be seen as a breakdown of it for our indigenous peoples, for the Sami, Europe's only indigenous peoples. By reaching goals with the Nordic Sami Convention, we have taken important steps forward in the work announced by the Government this summer.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-502	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. According to the defence decision 2015, a combat group consisting of a mechanised company will be placed on Gotland as of 2018. Since Tofta's shooting field is the only military shooting field on the island that remains, it is reasonable that the establishment also takes place there. An old appeal from Region Gotland led to an environmental review with the government, but now the Alliance on Gotland has ensured that this appeal is withdrawn. A new test needs to be carried out for the establishment that we are now planning. My question is quite simple. Will this trial also get stuck at the Government Office?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-505	Mr President, I would like to I can say ironically that it is a representative of the right party who is asking precisely these kinds of questions. There was an enormous delay in the handling of environmental tests during the last parliamentary term. We have delivered the results of a large number of environmental trials at the end of last year. With regard to the forthcoming environmental test, I am prevented from having a discussion on it. It is an administrative matter that must be dealt with in accordance with the usual order by the authorities responsible for dealing with such matters. If there are then appeals, that will of course be something that the government should handle.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-509	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is important that both the government and Region Gotland do everything they can to facilitate this military establishment. I am convinced that both I and the Government are prepared to draw a lance for it. The Swedish Armed Forces have enough bureaucracy of their own when it comes to such establishment. Does the Government consider that the timetable for establishment in 2018 is reasonable and that it will comply, regardless of appeals or review by the Government?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-512	Mr President, I would like to That's the plan. And it is according to that plan the Armed Forces are working. I am not going to go in and discuss the conditions surrounding possible environmental assessments because they are government matters. If I act in the wrong way there, you will register me, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-514	Mr President, I would like to Foreign Minister Wallström said in the foreign policy debate yesterday that it would be better if the Moderates did not discuss a Swedish NATO membership but instead gathered around the government's policy to signal unity. It is strange to try to impose a ban on the opposition on one of the most important issues of security policy. It also seems strange in the light of the fact that leading environmental parties publicly question the host country agreement with NATO. This is an agreement that strengthens Sweden's ability to provide and receive military assistance in solidarity. How does the Minister for Defence see that six environmental parties have gone out in the media and said that Sweden should say no to the host country agreement, including the Green Party's foreign policy spokesperson and the Chairman of the EU Board? Does it not create uncertainty when the leading representative of one of the government parties does not stand up for the government's line?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-517	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. First of all, it is probably impossible to impose a ban on thought. I think the idea is free, no matter what labels you try to put on inhibitions. I do not think that was Mrs Wallström's intention either. When it comes to what individuals write in different articles and senders, I really have no idea about it. It'll have to stand for them. I represent a government. We're in the process of preparing a legislative referral. We are also bound by a parliamentary decision taken in June 2015.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-521	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Defense is known for being quite out-of-poken and representing things. But I have to say that now you were quite unclear, Peter Hultqvist. The host country agreement is politically broad, including in the latest report by the Defence Committee. I ask again: what does it feel like not to have everyone in the government parties with you? How do you plan on getting it through?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-523	Mr President, I would like to My emotional life will have to be clear elsewhere. I don't think you're interested in that in Parliament. In addition, I stand here not only as a person who should feel a little light from the root or spinal cord, but I represent a government. We will carry out our mission to deliver a bill to the Riksdag. And I assume that the agreements that have been in place for the past and that it will be a host country agreement.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-526	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence and concerns the most important defence economy. There has been information in the media that the evidence submitted by the Swedish Armed Forces prior to the defence decision contains errors that could lead to an increase in costs. How does the Secretary of Defense view this?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-528	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. There are always discussions about how much material costs there will be and how long any time shifts in deliveries will be. For this reason, I already warned in Sälen that we will probably have to deal with cost discussions and time-shift discussions. I simply note that there have been deliveries of this kind in all these years. We will have to come back to those questions when we have the facts to present.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-532	Mr President, I would like to The question then is whether it should also apply to the 2.8 billion in reduced material costs that affect the defence economy. Was it included in the calculation, or is it also part of this mischmaschet?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-533	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to mischmash and the inability to clear up such questions, you probably have a legacy from your own time to deal with, Lotta Olsson. It hasn't been long since then. I am responsible for what has happened since we came into government. The defence decision took effect from 1 January. I see before me that we will have to deal with a lot of such issues, just as it has been in the past. But if you're going to start describing it as the government dealing with a mischmash situation, you should probably go back to what you're responsible for yourself.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-536	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. It is about the investigation that was presented just over two hours ago, i.e. the government's investigation into how to strengthen civil society. The investigation was set up by the then alliance government. Now the Minister is responsible for managing the proposals. One of the proposals highlighted is how to strengthen civil society's opportunities to participate in public procurement and idea-based partnerships.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-539	I might add that I am aware that Shekarabi, the Minister of Civil Affairs, is in charge of procurement issues. My question is of a more general nature.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-540	Mr President, I would like to What Eva Lohman says is true; yes, it is Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi who works with procurement issues. Oh, my God, I'm getting in my way. It is, of course, central to civil society policy that municipalities can procure civil society organisations. It's about associations that are incredibly good at running businesses. They are in many cases, as has been shown, better than both state and other private actors. We are really going to build and develop the IOP, which is one of the things that investigator Dan Ericsson has been looking at. Although it was the previous government that set up the investigation, I made additional directives and clearly pressed for the democratic role of civil society. I look forward to sending this out for a referral and to see what the referral bodies think of the IOP. Procurement issues are central. If we get a spin on this, we get a spin on society at large.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-544	Mr President, I would like to I am a strong supporter of civil society. Given that the investigation was presented two hours and fifteen minutes ago, I await the future. I will certainly have reason to come back to the matter.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-546	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to continuing to discuss civil society conditions, in a possible proposal and not least to discuss referrals here in Parliament.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-547	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to address my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. It's about the investigation. An important thing for the non-profit sector is tax-deductible gifts. We were the second-last country in Europe to introduce it, and unfortunately we were the first to remove it. Deductible gifts have meant a lot to the non-profit sector. Plan Sweden and Stockholm Stadsmission, for example, have received 15 million extra each year thanks to it. I had the parliamentary investigation service ask the 15 largest organisations for tax-deductible gifts. For example, the Swedish Cancer Society said that a tax reduction is an important issue for us to have a strong non-profit sector in Sweden. The same was also said by the Red Cross and UNICEF. Then I have to ask, not least Alice Bah Kuhnke, who represents the Green Party, who was not satisfied with the system but wanted to develop it, why the government did this. Why did you remove it?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-552	Mr President, I would like to As far as taxes are concerned, we have a Minister of Finance who is very concerned that she has the last word. But of course I have many thoughts about civil society's political perspective, and we have also discussed it in the government. People don't give to get tax relief. You give because you want to and because you feel that you can afford it. We have seen this not least in the last year. People give as never before. We should also remember that the tax incentives that existed in the past were selective. They did not apply to everyone, but to some chosen ones. The basic position is that we should not tax subsidies people's willingness to give, quite the contrary. People should give because they want and for no other reason.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-556	Mr President, I would like to What the government is now doing is taxing gifts, and that is something that is quite unique in Europe. This is being developed in the rest of Europe. In Denmark, for example, which has a Social Democratic government, far more is being deducted than the SEK 6 000. In most European countries, up to 10% is deductible. In the greatest crisis since the Second World War – as pointed out here by another minister – is it not very misplaced to remove something that strengthens the non-profit sector? The question is why.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-558	Mr President, I would like to The government is doing more to enable civil society to make a difference than has been done in a long time. We use a whole toolbox. I don't think you can find any of the civil society organisations that have been active, committed and amassed more members who don't see that they are now being supported and that we are working on a new policy. I am absolutely convinced that during the term of office we will be able to show what a difference we have made for civil society organisations.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-560	This concludes Question Time this week. I would like to thank the ministers and the Members who have participated in Question Time.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-562	Mr President, I would like to I was already able to note during the previous Question Time that the obligation of total defence in Sweden has by no means been abolished. It was made dormant in 2010. All relevant legislation is still in place. When this House finally decided in 2010 to make recruitment voluntary to the Swedish defence, it wisely stated that if the world situation deteriorates or if it turns out impossible to recruit on a voluntary basis enough soldiers and sailors will be resumed. Mr President, I would like to We are writing now in 2016, and almost a week goes by without Russia threatening close and distant neighbours with its nuclear weapons. Today, in our Baltic neighbours, in each of the countries, American soldiers are on guard. Yesterday, the Defence Committee was in Kista and visited the Swedish Defence Research Institute. Their message was crystal clear: Russia is now engaged in the preparation of war. A few weeks ago, Finnish commander Jarmo Lindberg was given the mandate by the Finnish Parliament to call 25 000 soldiers on his own initiative and at his own decision with immediate effect, if necessary. Last year the Committee on Defence carried out a follow-up to the staff supply reform. We were then able to see that the agency had succeeded in recruiting about half of the intervention organisation, half of the defence, on a voluntary basis. The other half consisted of people who had previously been trained with duty before 2010 and who had been placed in the organisation in spite of the lack of recent experience of military activities, and of positions that were completely unattended. There were neither employed soldiers nor formerly with duty trained. As I noted during Question Time, we have gradually started over the years to fill up the intervention organisation. But from 2015, under the new government, this trend seems to have reversed. Now the number of soldiers in all our combat forces is falling. Mr President, I would like to Standing without a manned defense represents a huge risk in the short term. In the longer term, it also threatens the quality of Swedish military defence. It is now becoming increasingly difficult to recruit key positions as a flight driver in the pointed combat aircraft. It's harder to recruit for the special units. Last autumn, the Officers' Association warned that every fifth place on the officer's program is empty. Also, if there is not enough breadth, a sufficient qualitative tip will not be achieved. In the opinion of the Liberals, the international situation is acute. The recruitment, which has been attempted on a voluntary basis, obviously does not work. It is now time for the government to assume its responsibility for Sweden's national security. As quickly as it activated refresher training with duty about a year and a half ago, the government must now also activate basic training with total defence duty. Mr President, I would like to It is a great pleasure for me to note that a majority in the committee also supports the various proposals of the Veteran investigation. In short, the latest veteran investigation delivered three basic news. The most important was that not only military veterans but also veterans of civilian authorities who were in international action should receive support and assistance. These are civil protection personnel, police officers, not least nurses who fight the Ebola epidemic in Western Africa and expose themselves to both great risks and excessive wear and tear. They need the same support, the same help and the same recognition that military veterans have been receiving for some years. Another important innovation was that the investigation proposed a coherent competence centre with medical and legal expertise to be made available to both military and civilian veterans. The investigation also impressed that Sweden, when we act on the international stage, is not solely responsible for those who are employed by Swedish authorities and Swedish citizens. Our responsibilities must, of course, also extend to local staff. It is about service staff and, for example, about interpreters. Now someone says: Allan Widman speaks so warmly about the national dimension and the threat picture against Sweden. The next moment he talks about responsibility for our international veterans. What's the connection? Mr President, I would like to These things are connected. Do not think for a moment that those who are today employed as soldiers in the Swedish Armed Forces and who are now preparing for national defence do not care what happens to their colleagues who have been out internationally! If we don't take care of the latter, we won't be able to recruit the former. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-577	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate what is at the heart of the Swedish Armed Forces' activities, that is, the personnel – those who are working daily to make our defences as strong as possible, those who participate in international operations and risk their own lives to create security for others. Since we stood here a year ago, we have seen several exciting developments. In June 2015, we decided in the Riksdag on the direction of the defence until 2020. That decision has brought with it several positive elements in the field of human resources. Part of the decision taken last year is that an investigation has now been set up to review the issue of the Swedish Armed Forces' long-term personnel supply. We see that we have great challenges when it comes to filling, for example, the timing of services, i.e. GSS/T. We're still dependent on duty personnel to fill the war units. We also see great challenges when it comes to the number of women in military service, who are far too few. It is problematic from a people's point of view. We know that anchoring with the Swedish Armed Forces is strengthened with a personal anchoring, and it is important that this applies to the entire population and not just to the male. It is also problematic for the long-term staff supply when the Swedish Armed Forces are not given the opportunity to start from the entire population base. In view of these different challenges and the growing unrest surrounding the world, the personnel supply investigation is extremely important. Finding long-term sustainable human resources and landing in a stable and appropriate balance between voluntary and duty is crucial for a strong and robust defence over time. Mr President, I would like to The new basic education system has been running for a few weeks. In the old system there was a three-month training course that then went into employment for the job training. Now this is combined into a single coherent education. This will hopefully make the training more flexible in its execution and get more people to complete the entire training, while at the same time we will also be able to place those who have completed the training. In this way, we can make better use of those who have completed military training. The new basic education also means that the recruitment benefits, such as free accommodation on the premises, free meals and free home trips every two weeks, will apply throughout the training period. This, too, is an important step in improving the conditions for staff. Mr President, I would like to During the past year, the Swedish Armed Forces have been able to practice with full units for the first time in several years. Since the Conscription Act was suspended, the Swedish Armed Forces have not had the opportunity to call in people who have been placed in war after having previously done military service. However, the current government has changed that. On 11 December 2014, the Government decided to activate the part of the legislation on rehearsing exercises, i.e. that it should be possible for the Swedish Armed Forces to call in people who have previously done military service for practice. During the autumn we could see the starting shot for the rehearsal exercises. This has already had positive effects on the operational capability, as the Swedish Armed Forces, in addition to increased practice activities in general, have also been able to work together with full units, something that has not been possible before. Mr President, I would like to Much is happening in the field of personnel within the Swedish Armed Forces. We are in a position where we need to exercise the operational capability, and there the staff are at the core. They are the basis when it comes to the defence of Sweden, and they are also the basis when it comes to contributing to international peace and security through military action. In 2015, nearly 1,400 people participated in an international military operation. These are people who work in tough and challenging environments where they ultimately risk their lives to contribute to the safety of others. These are operations like Minusma in Mali, where the Armed Forces under the UN flag collect intelligence to contribute to the security, stability and protection of the population in the region. These are operations such as the one in northern Iraq, where the Armed Forces train and advise the Peshmerga forces in the fight against Daish. These are two examples of efforts where we in Sweden make a difference. And there are two examples where each individual participating in the operation makes a difference. It is our job to ensure that these individuals have the best possible support on the ground, and it is our job to ensure that they have the best possible support when they come home. They, together with everyone else involved in international efforts, deserve all the support they and their relatives need. Here I feel that all of us in the committee are in agreement. Then there is the constant question of what is the best support. The vet investigation tries to take a broad approach to the veteran issue with specific proposals, such as the creation of a veteran authority outside the Swedish Armed Forces. At the same time, it is also proposed to extend the concept of the veteran to include more categories of staff. Last spring, the veteran investigation was on a consultation round. Most of the referrals were in favour of the investigation's focus on a comprehensive and developed veteran policy. However, when it comes to the specific proposals, there are some criticisms, not least with regard to the proposal for a veteran authority, which a large proportion of the bodies oppose. Among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency reject the proposal. In this context, we Social Democrats find it very unfortunate that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are once again trying to drive ahead and thus in practice run over the organisations whose personnel the whole of veteran politics is for. That we should take the necessary measures to strengthen support for the veterans and their relatives, we can hopefully all support. In practice, however, the fact that this is to be done in line with the investigation's proposal means that it goes against the consultation bodies that oppose some of the investigation's proposals. Now that we are taking a new approach to veteran politics, it is important that it be right. It is important that we are sensitive and listen to those affected by the proposals. In the regulation letter to the Swedish Armed Forces for the financial year 2016, the Government instructed the Swedish Armed Forces to submit proposals for the establishment of a veteran centre by mid-2016. In this way, we can see that the work for a new unified organisation where responsibility is clarified is underway. I look forward to listening to the Swedish Armed Forces' proposals. That is why I am in favour of reservation 11.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-597	Mr President, I would like to I am delighted when Alexandra Völker says that we all agree on our concern for our military and civilian veterans. In 2010, when the veteran legislation was adopted, both Social Democrats and environmentalists and left-wing parties voted against those proposals in this House. I would like to explain to Alexandra Völker that staff representing all the authorities who had the opportunity to comment on the Veteran investigation's proposal were also in the Veteran investigation. The entire investigation was in complete agreement. The fact that then executives choose to want full responsibility for staff policy at their authority and workplace may not surprise me at all. But I don't think we should see before us that one of the Armed Forces' organized veteran centers will ever be visited by civilian veterans. It was quite obvious in the investigation. It was suggested that it would be under the Swedish Armed Forces, all the civilians said no. It was suggested to put it on MSB or anywhere else on the civilian side, the Swedish Armed Forces said they would never send anyone there. That's exactly why you have to find what you call neutral ground. Mr President, I would like to I have to ask a question about the decision taken by the government in December 2014 to resume refresher training with duty. It was done without preparation and investigation and without informing the Riksdag. A simple decision was made. What prevents the government from making exactly the same decision regarding basic education?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-601	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that it is difficult to understand a holistic approach with which everyone is happy. Even I understand that there may be different things that make it difficult. I have full respect for the work done by the Veteran investigation, Mr President. At the same time, however, I think it is important to take in the views of a great many consultation bodies. In addition to the Swedish Armed Forces, FMV and MSB, which I mentioned earlier, it is among other things the Swedish Employers' Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency, the State Treasury, the Swedish Military Comrades' Association, the Swedish Police Authority, the Folke Bernadotte Academy and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare that are sceptical about the proposal. Regardless of what has happened in the investigation and I do not think it is important to also take this into account as we move forward with implementing practical decisions, which is what we are going to do. As I said, we all agree that we want this to be as good as possible for all the parties involved. But then it is also important to listen, and that is why I find it unfortunate that instead of taking a concerted approach and just trying to do this as well as possible and being as responsive as possible, one chooses to run over and go on with exercise therapy.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-603	Mr President, I would like to I can say that the government for its part, without any dialogue with the Riksdag, made decisions in the regulation letter saying to the Swedish Armed Forces that you should have this centre of expertise and thus exclude all the civilian veterans because that is in practice what they have done. I think that we in the committee have been very open to discussing these issues with the Minister for Defence, but I can only say that Alexandra Völker is very much concerned with the negative consultation bodies. But the proposal for a national centre of competence, Mr President, was mostly a proposal for the smaller authorities who send staff. That the Swedish Armed Forces, MSB and Folke Bernadotte Academy with their large volumes of veterans can handle this is obvious. But the Swedish Tax Agency, which annually sends four five people or Lantmäteriet who send two people – what are the prerequisites for such authorities to build their own within-authority competence in the veteran field? I believe that these conditions are very small, and that is precisely why they wanted to have a centre of excellence available and open to both civilian and military veterans. Then, Mr President, I cannot help but note that Alexandra Völker does not answer my question about the government without preparation, but investigation and without communication with the Parliament can activate certain parts of the legislation on duty. Why can't the government now in a situation where the Swedish defence is decreasing in scope – we're not getting more and more, we're getting fewer and fewer despite the big investments that are now being made financially – make the same simple decision to resume basic education with duty?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-608	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start with the fact that the organisations and authorities that Allan Widman raised are also authorities that themselves are sceptical about the proposal in the consultation round. You are sceptical because you think it becomes unclear who is responsible, something that was an issue you wanted to solve. One thinks that there is an even more unclear governance with a veteran authority, and I think that criticism should be taken seriously. As far as the question of conscription is concerned, it is a little funny, because it was the government in which Allan Widman's party was involved that abolished conscription. This has had major consequences. I would not say that it is a simple decision to reintroduce military service. The decision itself may be simple, but it is not easy for the Swedish Armed Forces to actually implement it. It is still in the process of implementing the personnel supply system introduced by the previous government, and now the consequences of the decision taken by the previous alliance government must be taken. We were sceptical about how to deal with the issue at the time. Now we handle it based on the conditions we have today, based on what is the best conditions for the Swedish Armed Forces based on Sweden's defence. The staff supply investigation today is part of trying to see what is the best way forward for Sweden's defence, without backing the band and having to do the process from the beginning. We can see that the Swedish Armed Forces have had to undergo an incredibly large process because of the decisions made by the previous alliance government.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-612	Mr President, I would like to It is a serious situation around the world that we can see on several different fronts. Of course, this means major changes for the Swedish Armed Forces. We may not have made the biggest change, but we have still made a change that means that the Swedish Armed Forces will become bigger and sharper. However, there is a basic question that needs to be answered, and that is how the Swedish Armed Forces will manage to support their organisation. We from the Alliance and we from the Moderates have put forward a lot of proposals that we believe and believe could be implemented quite quickly. The debate on the Swedish Armed Forces' staffing really has two main lines. One is talking about coercion and the other is about volunteering, and perhaps there is a discussion there in the middle. Our starting point is that it is basically the healthiest when it comes to being able to man professional organizations is that carrot is better than the whip. Forced action does not give the best soldiers, but voluntary action is in fact the best way to man a defence organization. The debate has sprung a bit lately. There are Social Democrats who have pointed out that we could have a military obligation to find displaced persons, help in environmental accidents or that it might even be a reason to reintroduce general military service in order to solve our integration problems. I want to be very clear from the Moderates' side and say that when we talk about the Swedish Armed Forces' staffing, it is the Swedish Armed Forces' needs that are at the centre, not the contribution that the rest of society can make in that sense. Nor must we turn a blind eye to the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces' staffing is a challenge. Some new tools have been added. Among other things, the new training, in which basic military training together with professional training has been combined, can now be used to place soldiers in units with duty. I think this is a good thing, but I think we need more solutions. Although the ÖB has said that we will solve the targets by 2020, that is, within the period of this defence decision, I believe that more measures are needed. Sometimes such a measure is discussed in terms of wages. Let me say that salaries are mostly very important, but when talking to the HR department of the defence and when talking to others who have experience in this area, pay may not always be the most important thing. A comparison can also be made with other countries such as Denmark, Norway, the United Kingdom and Holland, and then we see that our soldier's wages are not higher or lower, but in principle in parity with other comparable countries. However, there are other parts where Sweden lags behind, and it is about what benefits you have as a soldier. There is Sweden far behind. In Norway, for example, extra entry points for universities and colleges are only offered after military service, and there are other benefits that are significantly better in many comparable countries. We have been saying for some time that people should have different types of training premiums and incentive schemes within the Swedish Armed Forces for those who perform their contracts. We believe that this is an important signal for those who have chosen soldier life. But that, as has been done now, those who are trained as basics and positions do not receive wages during this time, but instead receive a premium in the form of deferred wages, we may not think that is what attracts soldiers per se. Instead, we believe that new forms need to be found to make things better. Today, in principle, a salary was paid and paid at the end of the education. Of course it will be a carrot, but that carrot was taken from the soldiers before. There are many incentives that we want to look further at, and now there is an investigation that looks at volunteering as a basis but with the possibility of partial duty. When it comes to higher education, we could look at how we can better link a position in the Swedish Armed Forces with higher education. We have seen that many people leave the defense because they have entered higher education. As I said, it was also about premiums during the contract period and further training in the service. Anyone who has gone as a soldier and kicked gravel in the barracks for a year will of course want to continue. There we think that the Swedish Armed Forces also need to look at how to get further education within their position. Housing is an issue that is difficult in many places, and there are other components or competences that can contribute to civil merit that we think should be looked at further. We look forward to the investigation that will come in September this year, and we hope that additional tools for the Armed Forces' personnel supply will come in there. If you are today a young man or woman and want to go to the Swedish Armed Forces, you might think that if you live in Boden or Karlskrona, for example, which are two large garrison cities, it would be very simple. That's not really the case. For example, if you live in Boden and want to sign up or do the tests required to take a position in the Swedish Armed Forces, you need to spend two days travelling to Stockholm and do these tests. It is not reasonable, and it does not, of course, make it easier for the units in Norrbotten that have great recruitment needs. Nor, of course, is it reasonable that there should be equipment to do these tests of soldiers who are not in use today. That is why we believe, and we have also reserved for this, that mobile recruitment and testing offices should be set up. You have to be able to become a soldier in more places in the country than you can today. Mr President, I would like to The former defense minister Sten Tolgfors used to describe that the hardest thing about being a defense minister was getting text messages or phone calls in the middle of the night, because then he knew that someone in our foreign missions had been injured or killed. I think we are all aware of Tolgfor's deep commitment to veteran issues, and I think we should also note that a great deal happened during his time. At the same time, much remains to be done. Let's say that while we in Parliament continue to send our soldiers, most recently to Mali as probably the most dangerous UN mission ever, very little happens in the Ministry of Defence. There are many issues that are investigated and ready, ready for decision, but the Ministry of Defence has not delivered. I can only read in the latest issue of the Officers magazine, where a former foreign soldier, Peter, 22 years old and 49 operations later describe how bad the veterans are. He also says that the only thing that really worked after his service after his combat vehicle had hit a mine and he was seriously injured was that his foreign allowance was immediately withdrawn. Otherwise, he describes it as a struggle. The organisation where he was still working and which was supposed to make sure that his rights and his needs for care would be filled instead became a counterpart. Of course, we can't have that. The people who represent Sweden and go out on many times incredibly dangerous jobs and sometimes pay the ultimate price, we must respond with the greatest respect and dignity when they come home. We simply expect more, and that is why the Committee on Defence has also called for the government to come back with proposals to strengthen support for veterans in an announcement. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have also highlighted the issue of housing, which for the Swedish Armed Forces in many places is a limiting factor in recruitment. We can all say that Swedish housing policy is one of the most regulated in the world, and this also creates problems for the Swedish Armed Forces. There are special solutions in some places. In Stockholm, for example, there are MHS housings that support soldiers and officers as well as our defence minister with housing. But we can well say that what is in Stockholm should be in more places. There should be more opportunities for soldiers and officers to find accommodation at the unit to which they are assigned. It is not only Stockholm that has a difficult housing situation. Currently, the whole country has a very difficult housing market. Therefore, we have said that there is a need for more solutions and simpler rules for housing construction in general and that the municipalities that have defence activities should also pay particular attention to the needs of the Swedish Armed Forces within the framework of their housing responsibility. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the NGOs. It could well be said that defence NGOs are our main defence sector. With its 400 000 members and thousands of local organisations, there is enormous competence and commitment. We believe, and experience has also shown, that both for the peoples of the defence and for the actual exploitation of the existing skills, the NGOs of the defence are an important part. Today, however, they are too little used. We believe that many municipalities overlook the fact that these organisations could often help in times of crisis and disruption if they could be better exploited. In conclusion, we believe that increased use of voluntary organisations would give more bang for money, and that is important at a time when both the Ministry of Defence and the government are working hard to avoid red figures. In conclusion, we support all reservations, but for time winning, I am in favour of reservation 4.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-640	Madam President, I would like I think it is positive that we have such a consensus on the importance of veteran issues. But I react when Jan R Andersson says that there are detailed and clear proposals that are in the department and that you just don't want to do anything with them. I wonder how the Moderates view the fact that the majority of the authorities whose staff are affected by veteran policy are opposed to the proposal for a veteran authority. I'd love to hear how the Moderates view it.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-642	Madam President, I would like I recall an expression which was repeated many times in this House by many Socialist Members during the last parliamentary term: it is too little, and it is too late. It's a bit the same feeling you get here. We have stood here several times and decided to send soldiers to war cores around the world. Most recently, we have on a few occasions sent people to Mali, which is so far the deadliest UN mission ever. Despite this, even though we have done this repeatedly, very little has happened at the Ministry of Defence when it comes to veteran issues. For me it is distressing that we send away people who often come home with visible or invisible injuries and at the same time have so little preparedness at home to take care of the people we expose to this. It is clear that we in the majority of the committee share the view that there are many proposals that should be taken forward. That is why we have made this announcement. I understand, of course, that questions need to be prepared, but the way in which the government has dealt with this issue seems to me to have been slow. That is why we have tabled this proposal. I fundamentally do not share Alexandra Völker's view that the majority of referrals are against this. In my opinion, President Widman described in an initial way how the process has been carried out and how the proposals have been worked out. This has been done according to good administrative policy tradition. So I think it has taken too long. That's why we've made this announcement.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-649	Madam President, I would like As I said, I too think that there are major problems in terms of veteran politics, the reception of our veterans and how we take care of them. It is obvious that you as a veteran should feel that you get the support that you and your relatives need, both before the trip and while you are away as well as when you come home. It's extremely important. That it has taken too long, I can certainly agree, but then I must remind the Moderates that until about a year and a half ago we had an alliance government. When the Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, took office as a government last autumn, we sent out this inquiry for consultation, because we think it is important to hear what the relevant authorities think of the proposal. It's a reasonable course of action. I have every respect for the work that has been done in this investigation. It's a solid investigation. But the fact remains that during the consultation round several authorities – the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, MSB and so on – have expressed a negative opinion on the proposal for a veteran authority. I still wonder how the Moderates view the fact that they are trying to push on a proposal that the Armed Forces themselves oppose in the consultation round.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-654	Madam President, I would like I've spoken to several veterans and several veteran organizations. I have experienced that what they have to some extent opposed is that you should build up an authority when you do not really know where the decision-making power is. Firstly, it is important that this activity is legally separated from the Swedish Armed Forces, that it is an independent authority that can help the veterans who have received but of their foreign service. Then it is important, I believe, that the operation is not as connected with the Swedish Armed Forces as it is today. Secondly, I do not think that the important thing is the form of such an activity. If it were not to be an authority, the question is what would it be? After all, the state organises its activities in government agencies, so what other form would it take? The question of whether it should be an authority or not, I think, is discussed too much. The question of what to fill your business with, whether it becomes an authority or not, is more important. We can discuss that. What should this authority – or if it becomes a different form of organisation – have for its content? That's where we're gonna put the power. If it becomes an authority or something else, for me it is not the most important thing. The content and the fact that they actually take advantage of the interests of veterans and put them first – that's what many veterans I've talked to about have not been done before.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-658	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only ask for reservation 18. After the 2013 veteran investigation, some have been done. A law for veterans has been passed, and a veteran's day has been arranged. But that's not enough. The scientific investigation should be further addressed and lead to further changes. A veteran authority should be established and benefits for veterans should be developed. However, there is no need to investigate the subject matter further. The Swedish soldiers who serve and have served in international efforts for peace make a great, important and honorable effort. For a long time, the soldiers were given virtually no support on their return. In an international comparison, we see that other countries honor and support their veterans. It is high time that Sweden started doing the same. If a veteran authority is established, it is important that there is an open veteran center for veterans to be able to visit. Veteran soldier's day, which already has state ceremonial status, should be set for a weekend as the last Sunday of May. The festival day programme should be planned to attract the live broadcasts of national television and radio. The efforts of the Veterans concern everyone. The Swedish Democrats believe that civilians who have made major contributions internationally should be supported and honored by other authorities than the intended veteran authority. Sweden is a well-organised country, rich in innovation and successful industry. We therefore have a high standard of living. Of course, Sweden will help the world with military aid. Military aid, by the way, we can't call it that. Yes, we will. It is our money, so we can call it what we want and why not exactly what it is, military and aid? Swedish soldiers have helped the world in a variety of conflicts and crisis spots. We shall remember and honour all those who, at the risk of their own lives, have made efforts to support peace and the survival of other people in other countries. Those who have been killed and injured, we remember in particular. Historically, there are many operations in which we have participated. During the 19th century later, Swedish volunteers participated in both the first and the second Slesvig-Holsteinian wars, although Sweden as a nation did not participate. When our Nordic neighbours bleed, we become one in the Nordic countries and assist each other. In the Winter War of 1939, 450 000 Soviet soldiers with 1,500 tanks and 1,000 aircraft crossed the border to Finland. By the end of the winter war, as many as 1 million Soviet soldiers had become acquainted with the war. A number of Swedes did not disagree with this, but joined the heroic defenses of the Finns through the Swedish free-will corps. We helped Finland in many ways during the war years, but we should have helped tenfold more. As in the case of the previous aid to Denmark, Sweden was not a nation in the war. Our neutrality from NATO was a later way of helping Finland. Let's back off a little bit. In 1911 38 Swedish officers were sent to Persia to help build a gendarmerie. You have to say that times change. Now we should help ourselves urgently to set up a gendarmerie, which the SD has been exercising about. Sweden's first contribution to the UN peacekeeping mission was to Suez, Gaza and Sinai, beginning in 1956. From 1960 to 1964, Swedish infantry and air force contributed to peace in Congo. Since then, the foreign force has worked for peace, including in Cyprus, Lebanon, Somalia, Bosnia, India, Pakistan, Korea, Georgia, Kosovo, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Afghanistan, Liberia, Nepal, Sudan, Chad and the Gulf of Aden. When the alliance government under Reinfeldt discontinued military training, the system of a special foreign force was no longer relevant. Foreign service was made compulsory for all members of the armed forces. The characteristics of the major international peace operations in recent times are that they have been poorly planned. At least the objectives have not been achieved. When international forces leave, as in the case of Afghanistan or Iraq, peace has not been secure, and the local populations have not been satisfied with the situation. We'd rather see UN committees as planners for international peace operations than the United States alone. On the other hand, NATO has been superior to leading war compared to the UN. In fact, the UN can only lead operations in a maximum of 20 000 soldiers. The NATO countries are reluctant to build up the UN's ability to lead war, for there will be a doubling of NATO and a double cost. Despite the UN's monumental shortcomings, the SD believes that the UN is the only track we can and should focus on for international peace operations. The UN military capability to coordinate and manage international operations should be strengthened.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-676	Madam President, I would like At a time when the security policy situation is changing, neighbouring countries are renovating their defences and wars and conflicts are going on in E Ulopa and its immediate vicinity are being called for a change in our overall defence, both military and civilian. The starting point must be that we can ensure an open and democratic society with freedom of opinion and free media. It is about increasing the population's risk and crisis awareness, the spirit of resistance and the willingness to defend and to gradually strengthen the peoples of defence in our country. The defence decision, which we took in June 2015, describes that the ability of the voluntary defence organisations to contribute to total defence and society's crisis preparedness will be developed and financially ensured in the long term. For the Center Party, this is an important starting point, where support for voluntary defence organisations must be increased in the event of increased preparedness. With over 400 000 members, the voluntary defence organisations have a great deal of support, breadth and distribution in our country. This is important to resume planning for the civilian part of the defence. The Armed Forces' personnel and all employees are the defence's most basic and important resource. Our common focus must be to make it as simple and accessible as possible to recruit staff and at the same time to develop the activities. A practical question I often encounter in the country concerns the importance of youth activities for the Swedish Armed Forces and for society's emergency preparedness. It is important that as many as possible get the chance to learn the basics of survival, be challenged in physical activities, orientate in forest and land, learn first aid and gain more knowledge about the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. Active youth activities also broaden the basis for future recruitments to the Swedish Armed Forces. The conditions therefore need to be as optimal as possible. One practical example is the availability of shooting ranges for young people to train shooting around the country. When the distances become too long, the interest and opportunities for many to participate in the exercises decrease. This affects recruitment and the conditions for youth activities. Here I hope that we can be involved and make it easier for there to be activities in all municipalities. There are many challenges in the field of human resources. This week, the Swedish Armed Forces presented their Annual Report for 2015. In the report you can read that the Swedish Armed Forces opened 3,000 basic training places during the year and that the number of applications shows that there is a strong interest in the Swedish Armed Forces. The concept of GMU is a brand, and recruitment campaigns have been developed. At the same time, departures from GMU increase from 16 percent in 2014 to 18 percent in 2015. The proportion of women who took up employment after completing education has decreased from 16% to 14%. The trend is that a reduced number of women apply to the GMU. Generally speaking, the longer-term courses have reached the goals, with the exception of the officers' programme, where the number of students who passed the degree was below the target. Not all training places could be used due to too few suitable applicants, both on the specialist officer training and on the officer programme. There are currently 112 students on the officer program as reported. The target was 150 students. At present, 13% are women. In the case of professional officers, the Swedish Armed Forces considers that the long-term goals will be undermined as a result of large-scale retirements, which is a huge challenge. In order to meet those retirements, recruitment needs to be increased. In addition, there is a relatively great need for the recruitment of temporary officers to meet the organization's great needs. Among other things, the Officers' Association highlights this and the importance of how important it is for the education and education system to be connected and how the Swedish Armed Forces choose to organise themselves. The supply of competence at the Swedish Defence University, with good teachers with the right skills, needs to be ensured in the long term. None of the specialist officers' training courses that have been completed since the start have been completed, either in terms of numbers or with the desired orientations. Today, more than half of the posts where there are supposed to be at times officers are vacant. Madam President, I would like The annual report also describes the staff turnover where the largest departures are among employees of group officers, soldiers and seamen, and how problematic it is with the recruitment of temporary staff. Many continuously employed soldiers therefore stop too early for the reform of the defence to have the intended effect. Stronger efforts are needed to increase recruitment and a comprehensive package of incentives for the Swedish Armed Forces to retain their personnel. These can be financial premiums, training cheques, opportunities for further training, access to housing and civil education. Financial incentives are important, and it is important for the Swedish Armed Forces to continue working to sharpen the whole of the employment in order to attract the right skills in a competitive market. An investigation is now under way with a special investigator working to propose long-term sustainable personnel supply. The starting point is that it should continue to be based on volunteering, but increased use of total defence obligations complements volunteering when the needs of the war organisation cannot be secured by voluntary recruitment alone. The investigation must be completed by 30 September. It shall propose an appropriate balance between duty and voluntaryity and suggest how an increased volume of personnel in the war organisation can be achieved in the event of higher defence preparedness. Today's report also contains a very important announcement on veteran policy. In several posts this has been touched on in a very good way. It is important that we do everything we can to get the proposed measures going in practice. Staff serving in international operations must be supported with their relatives in proportion to the risks and pressures they face. This requires a coherent veteran policy and continuous work to improve the situation for both veterans and their relatives. Work on setting up a veteran centre is also important. In this context, the geographical location can be highlighted in order to give the business the best possible conditions. One idea is to place this centre in the vicinity of Norway and its veteran centre in Hedmark in order to develop our Swedish and Norwegian cooperation in the best way in the long term. It is also about taking advantage in our Swedish work of the experience and expertise that exists in the Norwegian business. I think it could be a successful platform for a good start and continued operations, but also that it could strengthen our future cooperation in the field of defence.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-695	Madam President, I would like We debate the report Some questions about the Armed Forces' staff. It's a headline that sounds a little obscure, but I'll try to do my bit to clarify our view of certain issues. I would particularly like to highlight here the Left Party's view of military service, which we think is perhaps the biggest human resources issue. But I'll start with a question that may be among the smallest. We also have in this point the question of the system of adjutants at court. I'll say something about it first. We believe that the government should review the system of adjutants at court. It is not reasonable that we have it today. One should look at the funding but perhaps also at the function. Adjutants serve one month a year at the court – it is of course twelve months a year in total. The remaining time they serve in the fields of defence. Strangely enough today, the Swedish Armed Forces are responsible for salaries and compensation for the Adjutants. The total cost of the Adjutants at the king's staff is SEK 1,382,975 per year, at least according to the latest report. It is salary and additional compensation of 6,000 SEK per individual per month. It is not reasonable for this to burden the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces should never be dimensioned to help civil society, it is said. Perhaps here there is a reason to press that decision. I am, of course, behind this exercise, but for time to come, I shall be content to demand approval here only for our reservation on military service, reservation no. 1. In view of Allan Widman's fine plea for military service at Question Time before this debate and also in his speech, I can say in some kind of military terms that we thank you very much for the support of fire. We must not call it a professional army, but we must say that it is a defence force based on volunteering, which is a very strange language for something that is a profession. Moreover, I believe that this creates some confusion for the laity, because we have 18 NGOs. Those are the ones who are built on volunteerism, as I see it. I call it a professional army, because that's what it is. It was a failure. I think you should say that. In practice, today, only half of the positions that it was intended to be are manned according to the plan that existed. It is a little fascinating, but it is also an honour, I think, that we should reconsider our positions, as the Alliance has to do on a point-by-point basis, not least with regard to this. However, sometimes it feels a little strange to hear the strong criticism that things are going so slowly now. In some matters, however, things are moving in the right direction, unlike in the past. I know I went past the county council office at some point. There had a caretaker, somewhat tired, put up a sign on his copy machine. It said: If there was such a rush, why didn't you come yesterday? It may be something to take on board in politics as well. I'm going to dwell on military service. It is a little interesting that, when the defence-oriented decision was taken, the public debate raised its voice in favour of a more general civic service that could include basic training in civil defence, crisis and disaster response. This is something that I am not at all as negative to as Jan R Andersson. I think it is very similar to the ideas put forward by the Left Party in its military movements. For example, nine politicians, union representatives and researchers at DN Debate proposed a universal mandatory civic service for everyone in their 20s. A general survey and a compulsory service would then be built on with voluntary parts, covering all between 18 and 24 years of age – of course it would be gender neutral. The speakers also spoke of the need to consider whether a new type of military service should be introduced. I think that's an exciting thought. The big fire in Västmanland in the summer of 2014 showed the need for civic joint efforts. Sweden was not prepared for a disaster of that dimension. It gets worse because the Swedish Armed Forces must not dimension their resources to help civil society. It may be down to the level that has been lifted in this House in other contexts: even in helicopter pilots' holiday planning, civil society needs are not taken into account. The experience of storms and floods that have hit Sweden are further examples. In a broader sense, it is about possible climate pressures and other environmental threats that may affect us in the future. These are disturbances in the supply of electricity, energy and water. IT and communication systems are extremely vulnerable. While we do very little to protect ourselves, our dependence on this increases almost exponentially. There's a lot to say about that. Our basic position, which we have promoted the exercise route, concerns the introduction of gender-neutral, universal and equal military service. We want all men and women over the age of 18 to sign and for all fit to undergo a shorter military basic education. A future duty law will provide the opportunity for both military and civilian service. Therefore, we believe that the investigation into the Armed Forces' future personnel supply should be given an additional directive to investigate the introduction in the direction we point at. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be accepted.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-708	Madam President, I would like Stig Henriksson does not think that I have requested the floor to speak about the adjutants at the court, and he is quite right to do so. What I wanted to discuss a little bit was what you mentioned about volunteering, why they call it that. In the past, it was actually a coercion. It is a compulsion that has been expressed in the form of exercise that it wants to reintroduce. Forcedness ultimately means that if you don't follow it, it will lead to prison. There have been discussions, and we had the Minister for Labour in this House before. For example, she rejected looking at reduced entry wages. For many, a military duty would be the first job a person goes into, and then it will be difficult for me. I assume that you share the view of the Minister for Labour that reduced entry wages are not good. But why, then, does the Left of a chosen group of people with duty want to force them to lower entry wages? This is the result of compulsory military service that must also be general and cover all men and women of adult age in Sweden. One might also ask: Will the soldiers who are called into military service receive overtime or holiday benefits? Will they have the opportunity to leave? What will it look like? That's one thing. Then there is another question. A soldier today costs $250,000 to equip. How much money do you intend to spend on this new military army, which will cover a maximum of 120 000 per year? There are many questions to answer.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-712	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to develop some of the answers, although Jan R Andersson knows, of course, that much of this will be highlighted in the ongoing investigation for which we want additional directives. To ask for concrete answers to all these questions is to go a little ahead, to put it mildly. To take this with the nomenclature, it is certainly euphemism, i.e. an euphemism, to say that we should have a defence based on voluntaryity when it is a profession. In all other contexts, we would not call it that. It's not some social secretary who says, "I'm building my job on volunteering," but it's a profession that you have. Then you should call it a professional army, even if it has a slightly negative ring, as it may have for some good reasons, historically. I think it's important. You can't compare reduced entry wages to military service. We have different classes. I thought the Moderates were the first to agree with that. It is quite reasonable that the citizens of society have some duties. There was a fine old slogan in the labour movement: Require your right, do your duty! I perceive that the Moderates have possibly rewritten it to: Serve everyone and dessert for some!
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-715	Madam President, I would like There is somehow a semantic discussion here. It is not really the important thing, if you call it voluntary or duty. After all, one is done on a voluntary basis, and the other is done by coercion and summoning. For most people, I think it's clear what this is all about. Although Stig Henriksson has a different opinion, I do not think it is the public. But I have to ask you one more question. Neither Henriksson nor I believe that the soldiers will receive overtime compensation or other types of benefits that the Left traditionally works for. I guess I'll think that's supposed to be the nicest conditions in the labour market. Then I also think that anyone who works in the defence should have the right conditions and should have the opportunity to control their life to the extent that the work allows it. But you don't really do that if you have a duty army. There is another issue that I think is important. It is about the rather flowery discussion about what military service could mean. There was talk of helping with refugee reception, environmental accidents and other social functions. The question I ask myself is whether these are functions that the new military service should have, in whole or in part. Is the Swedish Armed Forces the best to train in these functions? Nevertheless, we are discussing what concerns our committee. My impression is that, if you are to broaden these tasks, you will find yourself in a situation where the whole of society should be transparent about how the questions are formulated. I don't know if the Left Party has a model for that. Does the Swedish Armed Forces consider it appropriate to train people who, for example, should be involved in accident protection or help in environmental accidents and so on, as has been expressed in the debate?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-719	Madam President, I would like Public support, you think we're missing. But I don't think there's a single poll that doesn't suggest the opposite. The public is very much in favour of the reintroduction of military service, be it that they may have a picture of it being the way it used to be. When you get the detailed questions about what the new military service should look like, my answer is usually: the only thing you can surely say is that it will not look like it was before, neither numerically nor otherwise. It's a little fascinating. I understand that the Alliance is very divided, because the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Center I understand have changed and believe that the decision made was not very successful but wants to reintroduce some form of military service, while Jan R Andersson most sees problems. It goes without saying that you should have decent conditions in the labour market. We will still reasonably have employees within the Armed Forces, as we have always had. Of course, the social partners will agree on the right conditions. But it is a completely different matter and should not be confused with this. There will always be some kind of mixed model. Then it is the proportions that determine. Some things the Swedish Armed Forces are certainly excellent at training about, perhaps above all to collaborate in larger groups. But you don't have to be a specialist. The idea is not that we should train new firefighters or something like that – there is special training for them. But it can be situations where many hands and feet are necessary. The forest fire in Västmanland was an excellent example of how much good can be done then, in voluntary resource groups with the Home Guard and others. In fact, military service has three major advantages. It is much better, it is much cheaper, and it creates a popular anchor for the Swedish Armed Forces, which we currently largely lack.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-726	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. There are indeed many dark clouds in the security-political sky that also affects our country. A few weeks ago we had a statement from army chief Anders Brännström. He said we could be at war in a few years. That it hastens to put order to the shortcomings of the Swedish Armed Forces is something he emphasised in this way. A few weeks ago, NATO's annual report revealed that what happened and was known as the Russian Easter, 2013 was a bogus nuclear attack on Sweden. We also see that Russian security controls are becoming increasingly common, with movements of men around Russia in a way that we have not seen before, and the way in which they are engaged in Syria shows that they have the potential and the opportunity to make operations that are far greater than we have seen before. We also see how it affects our neighbourhood. The Finnish Supreme Court decided on his own initiative a few weeks ago that he would be able to call in 25 000 reserveists without prior warning. When you talk about how we can strengthen the Armed Forces, it is important to see what shapes a Armed Forces. If you simplify, it's men, materiel and exercises. Here we have great challenges. The reform that we ordered has not fallen out at all as it was intended. It was called an intervention organization in 2014. But things haven't worked out the way they were prescribed. In fact, if the map and the reality differ, the reality must prevail, and then we must change. Today we see that, if we look at the total, we have only come half way when it comes to the ability of the Armed Forces to recruit full-time and part-time soldiers on a voluntary basis. There is an investigation going on here, and it is very important to work on. We need to take on board the experience of Norway and Denmark as quickly as possible, where voluntary activity is at its core, but when it is not enough, the duty is used. It is really as obvious as that we in a municipality would never accept that a large part of the fire department is not there. The fire department has to work. In the same way, we must ensure that we have filled the bandages. After we have completed the dressings, we can practice for real. Therefore, it is now so important to focus on making staff supply work. We see that the system we have today will never work. That must change, and then we need to look at the Norwegian and Danish systems. That is something that we Christian Democrats have been pointing out for a long time, and we are pushing for this to be brought in so that we can have the bandages as quickly as possible. I think it's an important part of going to Anders Brännström's statement. He said we could actually be at war in a few years. Then we must have filled the dressings that have been practicing. There are also other things that we need to deal with. This concerns financial compensation and incentives. A few years ago, I had the parliamentary investigation service compare Sweden with other countries that have a system of full-time and part-time soldiers. It turned out that Sweden was the only country that did not have bonuses or other incentives to keep the staff. There are different ways to do this. You can write off student debt, and you can give a sum of money that might be used to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment. Today, the system is based on the soldiers staying six to eight years. That's something we can look in the stars for. It will never happen unless we introduce substantial incentives. Today, we are happy if the soldiers stay three to four years, far from what was stipulated. Then we will have to start all over again much too soon and do not use the employees in the way that was intended. That is why it is so important that we learn from the outside world and ensure that we have enough incentives, encouragement and carrots to keep the soldiers out of time. There is also a need to remove obstacles. The Christian Democrats propose that the obligatory for periodically serving soldiers and reserve officers to participate in foreign missions be removed and that the employment include only the obligation to participate in refresher exercises. Thus, a factor that is likely to be highly restrictive of recruitment would fall away. Madam President, I would like It is also important to develop the reserve officer resource. The potential of the reserve officer system is currently being used too badly. The reserve officer's main merit, except that he or she is trained to perform an important role in the Armed Forces, is the civilian competence. A targeted effort should therefore be made to recruit reserve officers to positions in the Defence Organisation where their civil competence can be better exploited. It is also important to highlight the importance of NGOs. There are 400 000 people involved in various civil defence organisations. We could make much better use of former defence staff than we do today and channel them to NGOs. Now that we are looking more seriously at civil defence as well – that is something that has unfortunately been down for many years – and efforts are being made to use the NGOs. There is a reservation in which we in the opposition particularly press for this. In conclusion, I will tie in with the army commander's statement that within a few years we can be at war, which had a pretty big impact. We hope that this will not happen, but we must strengthen the Armed Forces and raise the threshold. That is why it is now so important that we ensure that we can fill the units as soon as possible, and this report deals with staff issues. Then we can practice, and then we'll have an effect. It's of the utmost importance.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-744	Madam President, I would like We are discussing certain staff issues in the Swedish defence. Mikael Oscarsson begins and ends his speech with the army commander's statement that we can be at war in a few years' time. It is in itself impossible to argue with. Of course we can be. I asked earlier, in another debate: what scenario is this about? Is anyone seriously looking at an isolated power attack on Sweden? So far, no one has raised his hand in this regard. There are those who say that we can get involved in a larger scenario without any choice. Then one might wonder whether host country agreements and NATO membership increase or reduce the risk of us becoming involuntarily involved in various war scenarios. In the end, it is a good thing that this is because we can be at war in a few years' time, according to Mikael Oscarsson, means that, for the first time since the Great Power, we would be crossing the Baltic Sea to help the Baltic countries in this case. It is possible, however, that we would end up in that discussion if there was an emergency. But there is a big difference between the almost apocalyptic vision that we can be at war in a few years' time and that, if we decide for ourselves, we can be at war in a few years' time in the Baltics. I think you should be honest about that. I could say a lot about Russia. There's a colossus on clay feet. It has a bad economy and a corrupt, undemocratic and despotic regime which has many major problems, it has lost the entire Warsaw Pact, it is encircled by NATO. It is true that the military armaments of the 21st century have quadrupled, and this is worthy of criticism. But why are we never talking about Sipri's figures, that is to say, expenditure during the recession period, from the fall of the Soviet Union to the year 2000, fell by 93%? If you quadruple from that level, it won't be as terribly aggressive as you might think otherwise. Russia's military expenditure is 10 percent of US military expenditure – to get some balance in this.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-749	Madam President, I would like I thank Stig Henriksson for the opportunity to discuss these important issues further. First of all, I would like to remind you of the visit you unfortunately missed yesterday. The committee was then at FOI. They were very clear that what Russia is doing is in fact nothing less than preparing for war. That's it. It's terrible to be a war-damaged country. But you can also be harmed by peace when you think that this will never happen to us and that you think that we would somehow be vaccinated against something as terrible as war. The country's Supreme Commander, Supreme Commander, has been very clear that if the Baltics are drawn into a conflict, it is a wishful thinking that Sweden could stay out of it. We have agreed on a declaration of solidarity in this House, which means that we should not look away. We have a story that is not very encouraging and positive when it comes to looking away when the Baltics need our help. But now we have said that we should not do so in the future. In the name of the declaration of solidarity, it is intended that we should be helped and that we should also help. My specific question to Stig Henriksson is: Is the Left Party behind the declaration of solidarity about standing up, or do you reject it? Are you going to look away in a conflict? Will you not support us in helping if the Baltics are occupied and attacked by Russia, for example?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-755	Madam President, I would like No, Mikael Oscarsson, I did not have the opportunity to participate in last night's exercise; I was in Västerås at a folk-forming meeting about NATO and the host country agreement. I was invited a long time ago. I absolutely believe that Parliament is preparing for war, just as we are. That's the point of the army commander's statement, isn't it? This applies to all other countries that have a defence force, that is, all except Costa Rica. As far as the Baltic states are concerned, the declaration of solidarity applies to Sweden, so you do not need to discuss what different parties think about it. However, it is not clear that this means that we should send troops there in different scenarios. It is, in fact, a completely different issue, just as with the EU's solidarity clause or even with NATO's Article 5. It could also be military means. I do not wish to rule it out, but I would say that there is a huge difference between saying that we can be war in a few years' time, that is, painting some apocalypse in the form of an isolated great power attack without fault, and saying that we ourselves take the decision to go to war. I suppose you have to admit that. As for what the ÖB says, I know he doesn't see a war threat for the day. He doesn't have the way to describe reality at all as the army commander has. There's a rather interesting discrepancy there. Once again, security policy must be so much more. Unfortunately, we are equipping large parts of the security policy that is about using diplomacy and working for disarmament, relaxation, inter-people contacts, government contacts, coastguards and other things. We are freezing it down, which increases the tension in the immediate region – just as a host country agreement and a possible NATO membership would do. It would not increase our security but help to reduce it. The scenario you're talking about is something you choose, and it's something completely different from the moods you try to paint.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-761	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I do not know how to interpret this or what Stig Henriksson and the Left Party mean. To say that it is not at all certain that we should send troops, is it not just some kind of lip service? Is it not the very idea that if a neighbouring country suffers a crisis, conflict or war, we should stand up with all the means at our disposal? Shouldn't the neighbouring countries know that it goes without saying that we are doing what we have? It creates enormous uncertainty, and I think it is dangerous. That is precisely what would be so important about NATO membership. This would strengthen security both for Sweden and for our neighbouring countries. We could join forces in a completely different way than we can do today, and that would reduce Russia's desire for adventure and will to act. It would thus strengthen security. None of us want war, and that's exactly why we have a defense. There is so much goodness in the world, but there is also evil. It is recalled that it has only been 70 years since we had World War II. What would have happened if the United States had not engaged, Stig Henriksson? What would have happened if the Communists could have taken over a large part of Europe? War is a terrible thing, but we will be eternally grateful for what they did. We need a strong defence, and we need to ensure that our defence works and can deliver security. It will be a threshold that hopefully means that we never have to use the defense.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-765	Madam President, I would like My focus in this debate is on the voluntary defence organisations, as Alexandra Völker has focused on the other issues. Mrs. Alman! I have had the privilege of meeting representatives of the voluntary defence organisations on several occasions. What fascinates me is their commitment and motivations and their contribution to total defence and society's crisis preparedness. It is therefore a good thing that we in the committee, in connection with the consideration of the defence policy direction 2016 – 2020, share the government's view of the voluntary defence organisations and the view that their access should be ensured in the long term. In addition, the committee stressed that the central authorities, municipalities and county councils concerned should seek greater cooperation with the relevant NGOs in order to take advantage of the commitment of volunteers both during peacetime crises and in the event of increased preparedness. Voluntary organisations, including voluntary defence organisations, have a broad knowledge, commitment and ability to contribute to the strengthening of broad security efforts. Voluntary defence organisations also have an important role to play in creating peoples' roots. They help to increase the ability of individuals to deal with serious events, accidents and crises. By increasing the peace-time capacity to face and manage accidents and crises, other NGOs will also contribute to the ability to withstand pressures under increased preparedness. Ideal engagement has a positive impact on people's trust in society and each other, which is an important value for crisis preparedness. The youth activities of voluntary organisations are also a strength for future recruitments and an important role in society. Madam President, I would like Such important peoples are based, among other things, on knowledge and understanding of the needs of society and total defence in times of crisis and war. Dissemination of information on total defence is an important part of the functioning of voluntary defence organisations. People's attachment also requires that people, in addition to their regular occupation, take an interest in and directly engage in defence activities. The voluntary defence organisations, as well as the other staff in office at times, are of great importance in this regard. Voluntary defence organisations have several important tasks. They make a valuable contribution to the Home Guard with the national protection forces. It is important that there are structures in place that enable the actors in question to reach the voluntary resources quickly when an event occurs and that there are arrangements and procedures in advance for the involvement of volunteers in the management of the event. Human resources are also an important function in terms of staff. Last night I had the privilege of meeting the Defence Field Artists, who told me about their activities. It is mainly about staff care both nationally and internationally, when taking action abroad. They see man as the most important asset of the Armed Forces, and I suppose that's just to agree. People at all levels within the Swedish Armed Forces play an important role in the whole. Culture enriches, creates community and strengthens people. Madam President, I would like Linked to what I mentioned, the government made a very important decision on 10 December 2015 that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency should report by 10 June 2017 on the overall assessment of the Swedish Armed Forces' need for support from the responsible authorities prior to and in the event of increased preparedness, as well as the ability of the monitoring authorities to provide such support within the framework of civil defence. A work situation report shall be made by 15 September 2016. The government decided on the same day on instructions for defence planning and on instructions for civil defence planning. The Government also commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to analyse and report on the future need for financial resources for voluntary defence activities, broken down by organisational support and mission compensation. The Swedish Armed Forces' presentation of the needs of NGOs for financial resources shall be included in the 2017 budget base and will therefore be presented by 1 March 2016. Madam President, I would like I look forward to hearing the assessments and analyses that will be presented to us in committee. Finally, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 11.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-773	Madam President, I would like As we all know, the human resources system is facing major problems. It's hard to get the units filled with soldiers. We all agree on that. We also agree that we should urgently introduce a system of conscripts. There is a majority in favour of this. Even if it were to be introduced, the dressing log is not enough to reach what previous Member Oscarsson was talking about. That ambition must be increased, but it is another discussion. In order to succeed in this, duty legislation must be put in place. We believe that everyone should sign and of them you should take out perhaps 8 000 men. Of course, we have no objection in principle that we will have young people who do not want to do military service. We used to. They went to the Rescue Department. They were trained in different parts of municipalities to be part of civil protection, fire brigades, medical care and so on. That's what they used to do. It worked perfectly well, and so we can do again today. We can review such a system. Giving this opportunity to serve without weapons is far better than putting the young people in prison. This must also be borne in mind when introducing the new system, and I am convinced that you are looking at it. We have tabled a number of proposals in this direction which unfortunately have not been approved by the committee. Another concrete thing is that we want to introduce a system for the payment of premiums to the new soldiers. The premiums shall be paid in stages as they fulfil their contracted time. Some variations of this system exist in other countries. That is what we want to do in concrete terms, and we are exercising about it. You say no. You can look at other premium models. We're not completely locked to the system I'm talking about, but we've been exercising about it. Then there are the details that we believe affect. For example, the food benefits and housing forms are problems that we had when I was an officer. A hundred miles [150 km] out in the woods, they were taxed in favor of sitting on a stump and eating with the soldiers. It was completely unreasonable. It was just an ups and downs, that's all. Get rid of all these things! Let the soldiers eat! Neither contracted group officers, soldiers nor seamen in the field shall be subject to preferential taxation. Let's get out of this! The government also needs to investigate the possibility for contracted group officers, soldiers and sailors to remain in their quarters and have access to the meals that are often prepared there. They should also have subsidised home trips, say every two weeks. We have also exercised that. You say no. Madam President, I would like We believe that the obligation to serve abroad for the categories of group officers, soldiers, sailors and reserve officers should be abolished. Let's turn this around. The defence of Sweden begins in Sweden. That's the most important thing. We went back to an invas ion defense in some form. For so many years now, we've been fighting to bet on the defense. You all know that, so I'm not gonna tell that story. But it feels great that you have joined the view that Sweden should continuously have a strong defence. We believe, as someone said here before, that the obligation to serve abroad is an obstacle to recruitment when the defence is now being reversed. We believe that the Armed Forces should be given the opportunity to provide housing. That possibility used to exist when I stepped in and became a commander. Of course, the rent was paid, but housing was provided. It made it very easy to get people to stay. If you became a permanent employee, you'd get a place to live. This has been tried at higher education institutions. I believe that it was in 2009 that an opportunity was given to provide housing for students and guest researchers during a trial period. So it is tested and evaluated, and there is experience. We believe that the Swedish Armed Forces should be given this opportunity to provide housing for their temporary staff. We have given an announcement to the government on this. When we were in committee at F 21 we were all in agreement, but I asked the question: what is the most important thing – now we are talking about staffing – if you could decide? The manager of F 21: To open a recruitment office in Luleå. That was the most important thing. And now you say no. Or don't you? We'll see how you vote next week. I say to everyone who listens to this debate – and we will spread this – that they will closely monitor how the other political parties vote next week when it comes to the motion on what was the most important thing for F 21, to open a recruitment office in Luleå. It will be very interesting to follow it. It's a negligible cost. After all, we have received presentations and heard that it would be quite quick to open such an office. Location and staff are available. It is a rather negligible cost in this context. The vote will take place next week. Since I have some time left to speak, I will comment a little on Mr Oscarsson's speech. He disappeared from the chamber. Well, maybe he's sitting in his room listening. He's talking about support for the Baltics. What he says then, in my opinion, is that if the Baltics should conflict with Russia, we will go to war with Russia, because on the day we send a single soldier to the Baltic States to resist Russia – that is his own example – we will of course be attacked by Russia. That is what he says, and that is the consequence. Support for the Baltic States can be provided in many different forms. But with a single soldier there, we declare war. Is that what Oscarsson wants? I'm not so sure about that. The question of NATO membership has slipped in here, and I shall take the right to comment on it. The view of the Swedish democrats is that NATO membership increases tensions. Our line is clear in this. A strong Swedish defence, for which we have been fighting for so long, and preferably in alliance or alliance with Finland, would lay us on a fairly high threshold level. And when you read the Russian newspapers you notice that they have nothing against a strong Swedish defence. Nor does NATO have anything against a strong defence or the fact that we are outside, even if they want us to be there. In the event of a conflict, including NATO membership, you must invest considerably more in the defence of your budgets. NATO will not pay if we try to escape the bill, as I have said a few times. That is my firm opinion.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-785	Madam President, I would like It may be that, in the run-up to this debate, Roger Richtoff has not really read the documents as well as he should have. We'll see what happens when we vote on this issue. I've, like Richtoff, been talking to some unit heads. There are units not only in Luleå, but there are units in Skövde, Eksjö, Karlskrona. There are bandages in a lot of places. But the problem that we have identified, and perhaps partly you too, is that many soldiers have to go very far to get to the recruitment offices. To say that you need one more and that it should be in Luleå is perhaps a little tight. We say in our reservation that we think that the mobile recruitment office that currently exists in Luleå could be used all over the country, because it is of course reasonable that anyone who will start working or applying for a position in Karlskrona, for example, should be able to do the trial in Karlskrona. Madam President, I would like My question to Roger Richtoff is: Does Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats not share the view that not only Luleå should have the opportunity to recruit soldiers?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-788	Madam President, I would like Jan R Andersson wants to go around with an ambulatory recruitment office while we want a permanent office for 3 – 5 months in Luleå. We also want one in the south. But our exercise applies to Luleå, and so I concentrate on it.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-789	Madam President, I would like It turns out that, after all, our opinions differ. It is perhaps grateful, for we see that this need exists in Skövde as well as in Norrbotten. If there is a device that can be used in a more mobile way, why not use it? One of the Swedish Armed Forces' biggest problems is to get close to the citizens they want as future employees in the Swedish Armed Forces. I believe that an ambulatory office could be used both to recruit soldiers to the Armed Forces and to enlighten and in other ways approach the population you want closer cooperation with. That is why I think our solution is better than that proposed by the Swedish Democrats. The recruitment office in Luleå may not have to be used all 52 weeks of the year. Why not use those resources in other parts of Sweden to facilitate the recruitment of Swedish soldiers and sailors? That is in all cases our starting point, but I understand that the Swedish Democrats have another one.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-792	Madam President, I would like In principle, I don't mind being in several places. I think you heard when I said it should not be stationed in Luleå, but there are premises and staff to be used for a certain time. In the future, perhaps 40,000 in a year's litter will be patterned. Then it is not enough to go around with an ambulatory office. We have to have fixed places. Jan R Andersson may be thinking about the current situation with a couple of thousand to sign, but I am talking about one year old. That's where we're gonna take out the best soldiers and fill our war units with women and men. When the war units will then grow even more, we will increase the number. From a longer-term perspective, therefore, temporary solutions such as walking around with a vehicle are not enough. We must have recruitment offices in more places in the country. That's how we used to have it, and it worked just fine. As a matter of principle, we have nothing against the start-up that Jan R Andersson is on for it to go quickly, but we are thinking a little more long-term.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-796	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have a number of reservations, but for some time we are in favour of reservation 3, paragraph 5, on the rights of the environmental organisations. The implications of environmental organisations' rights of appeal should be investigated. The fact that those concerned by decisions are to be regarded as having the right of appeal is very reasonable, but that organisations can appeal a decision even though they have no place of residence and no place of business in the area is all the more peculiar. In February 2012, the Swedish Court of Appeal in Stockholm granted the Swedish Nature Protection Association a right of speech on hunting issues based on Sweden's commitments under the Århus Convention. The Århus Convention uses, inter alia, the terms The Swedish Hunter's Association is very much concerned with decisions in hunting matters, and it is an interest that is also protected in Section 4 of the Hunting Act. But judgments have been delivered where the Hunters' Association has not been considered to have the right to appeal decisions of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding hunting. This applies, for example, to the appeal of a decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency concerning hunting for seals. The Administrative Court rejected the appeal because the Hunters' Association was not considered concerned by the decision, which may seem very strange. The Hunters' Union has been recognised by the Administrative Court of Appeal since before, but this was an example of the fact that it was not always self-evident. It is also remarkable, to say the least, that small environmental organisations that have reached 100 members, calculated throughout Sweden, should have a right of appeal and be able to stop decisions. This may have dire consequences for the local population in the forest areas whose industries and activities are affected. The right to speak should probably give more influence to local public opinion, the rural population concerned, hunting teams, local associations with more than just environmental organisations that do not have the slightest support in areas where they are still allowed to appeal against hunting decisions. In many respects, therefore, the current regulatory framework is strange to say the least. Environmental organisations without roots in the countryside, which are usually ideologically carried, can also have a very clear agenda in a certain ideological direction. The possibility of healthy game management is also hampered by the fact that the law is problematic in its design. In this respect, the government really should examine the consequences of the legislation and come back with proposals on how best to design and apply the legislation from a management point of view. I also want to find out that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency did not want to extend the hunting time in Värmland – Örebro in anticipation of court rulings from the Administrative Court in Karlstad. They wanted to extend the hunting period that expired on 15 February to 21 February, but it was not liked by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. There were not enough reasons to deviate from the regulations even if the country's half wolf tribe is in Värmland and 23 wolves would be shot plus 6 together with Örebro County according to hunting decision. This was despite a decision on a sustainable predator policy in 2013 and one of the most important approaches in the new policy was to reduce the concentration of the wolf tribe where it is at its most frequent. There is indeed a great deal of reason here to revise the regulations in order to ensure an extended hunting period, because the environmental organisations' right of appeal year after year stops any possibility of implementing government decisions. Madam President, I would like In order for Sweden to maintain a high international competitiveness and standard of living, the Swedish Democrats want an energy policy that ensures an affordable and reliable energy supply for both households and industry while meeting high environmental standards. The development of renewable power sources such as wind, solar, wave and hydro power must take great account of cultural and landscape values, animal life and biodiversity. Great consideration must also be given to local public opinion and to environmental and natural interests. Wind power plants should preferably be located in sparsely populated parts of the country. If property owners suffer a reduced market value as a result of a wind farm establishment, they shall be financially compensated by the owner of the wind farm. The expansion of wind power in environments with high natural and cultural value should be reviewed with regard to our nature and environment. It cannot be considered justifiable to look up wind farms in magnificent and vast landscapes. These power plants are also a threat to birds of prey, bats and other species. Therefore, inventory and mapping should also be carried out before applying for the construction of new wind turbines. It's very important.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-810	Madam President, I would like Both large and small environmental crimes affect us in our everyday lives. They can harm the environment and the ecosystem services on which humans depend. They can also be harmful to human health. A common environmental crime is that someone releases dangerous substances into nature through negligence or to avoid paying what it costs to handle the waste, avoid the charges it costs to get rid of the waste in a legal way or simply earn a penny in the black market that has arisen around the management of waste. It is therefore very welcome that the government is now closing the holes and tightening up the requirements for waste management through the bill that is now on Parliament's table. But environmental crime must not end there. Environmental crimes often affect several countries and a number of different authorities both within and outside Sweden. Did the President, for example, know that environmental crime in the form of illegal trade in, among other things, hazardous waste is the largest illegal activity in the world after drugs and weapons? Cooperation between different authorities, both in Sweden and internationally, is of crucial importance in order to be able to deal with environmental crimes and so that they do not end up between the chairs. It is therefore important that the police and other relevant authorities are given an obligation to cooperate in the field of environmental crime. It is also important that environmental crime is given equal priority throughout the country. Much of the work on environmental crime needs to be done locally, but a specialist unit would be needed to provide skills and help the local police, to work proactively and identify future environmental crime threats. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are many uncertain factors when it comes to knowledge of the extent of environmental crime in Sweden. The statistics often leave a few other things to be desired, mainly because environmental crimes often do not affect an individual and therefore do not report to the same extent. Moreover, they may not be detected until tens of years after the crimes have been committed. It is also likely that many people have violated different types of environmental rules without knowing it and without actual intent. It is therefore important to work towards more information to the public about environmental crimes and the consequences of, for example, dumping things in forests and soils or throwing hazardous waste into the garbage can, so that the public can both act environmentally soundly and be able to identify and report environmental crimes. Last but not least with regard to environmental crime, we see that, unfortunately, there are companies today that are putting in a system to break the rules and also companies that put the corporate fine in the budget for the polluting project. As there is currently no registration system for corporate fines, the same company can commit environmental crime on numerous occasions without being punished more severely next time or getting any kind of dot or similar. With a register of corporate fines, it could be possible to impose a significantly higher remedy in the event of repeated crimes. But, Madam President, the companies that deliberately destroy our environment are fortunately in a minority in Sweden. Significantly more are those companies that want to develop their environmental work. Swedish industry is currently a leader in environmental and climate technology. Through research, development and investment, companies have reduced their own environmental impact and created export opportunities for green technology. Activities that have a negative impact on the environment must be carefully tested and strict requirements made to protect the environment. At the same time, licensing processes must be designed so that they do not unnecessarily hinder or delay investments that modernise activities, create jobs and growth and, in the end, often reduce the overall environmental impact. The Center Party and the Alliance began work on government reform to improve the rules for the testing of environmentally hazardous activities. This work must continue. The focus must be on the fact that the extensive process of environmental impact assessment should primarily apply where these requirements can really make a difference in order to ensure the interest in environmental protection. The evidence and assessment requirements shall only do so to the extent that they are justified for environmental reasons. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has made suggestions on how, while maintaining environmental protection, changes in the classification of different types of activities can simplify for both authorities and activities. It is a first step, but more needs to be done. The public authorities' trials and data requirements shall be simple, predictable and effective. We must ensure that authorities are involved early in consultation processes. Objectives for the duration of the proceedings and the different types of proceedings must be set. In the context of a legally secure process in which all concerned can be heard, the possibilities for periodic appeals and late requests for additions should be reviewed. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 2. Continue to tighten up the environmental crime work for those companies that are doing wrong, but at the same time ensure that the absolute majority that is doing well is supported by a regulatory framework that leads to development rather than complexity!
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-830	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with the previous speaker that it is a good thing that this report strengthens the environmental code and, in general, strengthens the work against environmental crimes. Madam President, I would like It is not okay for motorways to be put on the surface with noise, exhaust emissions, particulates and destroyed local environment as a result in areas where people live on low incomes or who come from countries other than Sweden while the same roads are drawn in tunnels in areas where Swedish upper and middle class live. This is the case, for example, here in the Stockholm area with the motorway project Bypass Stockholm. The 21 km long motorway is drawn in tunnels under Drottningholm and the residential areas, while the inhabitants of million programme areas such as Sätra, Hjulsta and Akalla only have noise plank to protect themselves with. Tunnels for the rich – noise plank for the poor, is that how we should have it? No, I don't think so. Nor is it okay for people living in high-rise areas to have less access to green areas than those living in villas, that people living in million-programmed areas usually have years shorter lives to live than those living in the better-off residential areas, or that this is likely to have to do with people living in low-status areas, which are said to be poorer areas, having a worse environment. The fact that people are affected differently depending on income and ethnicity as a result of various environmentally harmful activities is sometimes referred to as environmental injustice. Trying to counteract this is what environmental justice is all about. For us Swedes, this is a rather unfamiliar concept, but in the Anglo-Saxon world, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, we have worked more actively on the issue, which there usually goes under the term environmental equity or environmental justice, i.e. environmental justice. It should be a matter of course in all policies, not least in social planning at large, that we strive to ensure that different social classes and groups in society have the same right to our nature and that no group should suffer disproportionately worse than anyone else. But that's not the case. In Sweden there is no active and systematic work on environmental justice. For example, according to Director General Björn Risinger when I was in contact with him last, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has no mission to work with socio-economic issues and analyses. Nor has there ever been, at least not what I know, any analysis or study from a socio-economic and ethnic perspective on how different groups in society are exposed to environmental and health risks. I would like to emphasise that it is not environmental policy as such that is wrong. On the contrary, good environmental policy is often levelling out between classes and groups in society. Good environmental policies often benefit the majority of people, for example, if we invest more in public transport, protect more nature, not least in urban areas, and reduce mass motorism and thus emissions, particles and noise. No, there are other policies that need to be more environmental justice: social planning, infrastructure policy, defence policy and the whole of economic policy. There's a lot to do here. Therefore, I think that motion 2183 in the report, on environmental justice, by environmental partners Annika Lillemet and Valter Mutt, is a good thing. It is about the need to identify how different groups in society are exposed to environmental and public health risks. The athletes suggest that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should have its own unit to work with environmental justice issues. However, the answer given to the motion in the report is below all the criticisms – yes, under all the criticisms. That the Moderates are satisfied with the answer may I understand, but not that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are. That you, dear Social Democrats and environmentalists, are voting against the motion and content yourself with leaving it, as it says on p. 17 of the report, without further action, is not impressive. I request the approval of Amendment No 1 on environmental justice. Linked to this, Madam President, is the issue of noise. Noise is a major problem for both the environment and public health. Over 100 000 Swedes are disturbed every year only by aircraft noise. In Upplands Väsby in the Stockholm area, almost every other citizen is affected by the arrivals and departures from Arlanda. In reservation 4 we suggest that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should be given a task to coordinate the work of the various authorities and systematically work to ensure that people are not exposed to noise. I request the approval of reservation 4. Finally, Madam President, we are dealing with the issue of snow-riding – snow-skiing in other words. Current cross-country driving is from 1975. In practice, there are no restrictions on cross-country skiing on snow-covered land. However, it is in principle prohibited to drive on land that is not covered by snow, unless you have special permits. This law is now more than 40 years old. Today we have ten times as many snowmobiles as there were at the time of the law. I think everyone here can testify to the fact that in some areas there are very big problems with snowmobile driving with not least emissions and noise as a result. It would certainly be appropriate to review this off-road driving team so that we can get better order out in our lands. The Environmental Protection Agency has just proposed a state inquiry into the revision of the Off-road Driving Act, and I see in this report that this is being opened up. I think that's good.
i-Yat2pr5sun9VnxTundzq1G	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report in addition to paragraph 6 on noise. Instead, we are calling for reservation 4. With regard to the amendments proposed in the Environmental Code based on the Government's proposal and clarifying the treatment of waste, there is not much more to say about it. It is good to make it clear that any handling that is incorrect and can pose risks to human health, animals and plants is punishable. Then Sweden also apparently meets the requirement of the Environmental Crimes Directive, and that is also a good thing. Madam President, I would like As far as the motions discussed in the report are concerned, they deal with a little different subjects. It's sprawling a lot. I will only refer to the debate on noise, for which the Liberals have a request for exercise for which we reserve our support. This particular motion should actually be put into a wider context, because it is part of a concerted motion by the Liberals on public health issues. In the same exercise there are claims relating to infectious diseases, language exchange systems, tobacco use, cannabis, gambling addiction and also the introduction of a twelfth public health target for the elderly. It is therefore in this context that this request has been made. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, it can be observed that noise is by definition negative from the point of view of health, otherwise it says something other than noise. The World Health Organisation has noted that noise is the most serious environmental problem next to air pollution. The health effects that people may experience are mainly cardiovascular diseases and strokes. It may be interesting in this context to look at some statistics linked to noise, if we now take road traffic as an example. You can read on Trafikverket's website that at least 300 premature deaths per year occur due to road traffic noise. It can be compared to those directly killed in traffic. There we have a zero vision and clear objectives. In 2015, there were 260 people, and there are, of course, 260 for many. But you can still put these figures in relation to each other. It can also be noted that for locally generated exhaust gases and studded tyre use, there are 1,300 and 200 for early deaths in Sweden, respectively. These are considerable figures. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has for a number of years had a special responsibility to coordinate the work of various authorities on environmental noise, and that responsibility is of course very important. There are very many authorities that have noise in their instructions. It is a list of, I believe, 13 government agencies and also SKL that is part of the coordination that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency works with. It is about getting more uniform application and guidance in order to increase understanding of each other's tasks and what each authority has to do in the field of noise. It has been a problem, especially in residential construction, that it has sprung a lot and that Boverket, Trafikverket and Naturvårdsverket have had different opinions about what noise is. In fact, this has begun to improve following the decisions taken during the time of the alliance government. When it comes to noise, there is also a great deal to do with the way in which social planning is designed. It is about plans, the location and design of buildings, traffic planning, road surfaces and so on, and you have to work with all these factors. Research also shows that it is not as simple as just talking about decibels. Very often when it comes to guidelines, recommendations and rules you talk about pure decibel numbers, but man perceives sound in very different ways. In some contexts, a very low decibel number from traffic noise, for example, can be very disturbing. Even if it is a moderate decibel level, sleep disorders, high blood pressure, cardiovascular diseases, and so forth may occur. The conclusion of what we Liberals highlight in our motion and for which we reserve our reservations is that, in this coordination responsibility of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, we believe that we must put pressure on us to really go out and inform about the knowledge that exists and also to develop the research that exists on the impact of noise on human health and that this, of course, affects how we plan and design our homes, premises and an infrastructure that limits exposure. Basically, therefore, one cannot argue that one must tolerate some noise, because that reasoning is not in line with research. As I said, noise is by definition a health risk, otherwise it is a sound in general and not noise. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-857	Madam President, I would like Wind power is a domestic, clean and renewable energy source. Christian Democrats have a long tradition of advocating wind power as one of the best renewables. Wind power is the most increasing renewable energy source in the world today. In Sweden, wind power spent 11 terawatt hours in 2014. That's about 8% of our energy consumption. At the beginning of 2015, there were a total of 3,048 wind turbines with an installed power of 5 425 megawatts. It is a problem that the decision-making process to build wind power takes so long. The licensing process for wind power companies needs to be shortened in order for the companies to have a chance of profitability. Today, the average duration of the permit examination is about five years, and in the event of an appeal it may take even longer. Delays often occur today when municipalities have to express their views on the permit, which is usually in the final phase of the trial process. If the municipalities had the opportunity to present their views earlier in the process, there would be more opportunities for wind power companies to meet the requests received, but also opportunities to save resources that could be spent on other projects. The majority of committees proposes that we wait for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Energy Agency to report a government commission in June 2017. This is an unreasonable delay. The problem is current today, and the Christian Democrats propose that the Riksdag announce to the government its view that municipalities need to get into the decision-making process earlier. I therefore support the Christian Democrats' reservation 6 on wind power. Madam President, I would like The proposal for an extended environmental crime provision proposes an amendment to the Environmental Code's penal provision on environmental crime. Of course, I welcome that proposal. It is important that we can close loopholes in environmental legislation. Environmental crime does not only mean that those responsible gain economic advantage in an improper way, but also that it is done at the expense of future generations. This makes environmental crimes particularly serious. It is important that the authorities are strongly equipped to face these crimes. When the BT Kemi scandal in Teckomatorp 1975 was revealed, 200 more or less rusted poison barrels with phenoxy acids were first found buried in the ground. A few years later another 160 barrels were found. In the legal process that followed, it was difficult to have those responsible convicted with the environmental legislation in force at the time. On the other hand, it was difficult to prove that the phenoxy acids in the adjacent river came from the buried poison tunnels, and also that the prosecutor could not show that what happened was a common dangerous crime, i.e. that the barrels caused some extensive discharges, that someone had directly injured or that – hear and be amazed – the management had purposed to harm. That was the discussion and the legal process then. It has now been 40 years since the BT Kemi scandal was revealed, and today in Sweden we have a completely different and much more stringent environmental legislation than we had at the time. Today it cannot be argued that the purpose of burying poison barrels would be to protect people from the contents of the barrels. That's impossible. It is now further clarified in the proposal for an extended environmental crime clause that the punishable area of environmental crime in the context of waste management is extended to all waste management operations which may cause a pollution harmful to human health, animals or plants to an extent that is not of minor importance or which may cause any other significant environmental inconvenience. This provision covers those who both intentionally or negligently store a substance or handle waste. Waste management covers collection, storage, disposal, etc., as well as waste brokers who handle waste without being in direct possession of the waste itself. It is excellent and necessary that this change be implemented. It is reasonable that anyone concerned with waste should take responsibility for any environmental impact. The proposal is based on the EU Environmental Crimes Directive. For me, it goes without saying that Sweden is complying with the EU directives relating not least to the environment. As we yes-owners once explained in the vote on Swedish membership of the EU, the EU's common environmental policy is a powerful instrument for strengthening environmental policy in the Member States. Without Europe, we would have run the risk of having a race to the bottom in terms of environmental ambitions. Mr. Old President! I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 6 and otherwise the proposal contained in the report.
i-ETApgNaC98qsxJrDoEjZC5	Mr. Old President! Sweden has a long tradition of sound environmental and climate policy. Thorsson Thorsson initiated the Stockholm Conference on the Environment in 1972, which was the start of the UN climate convention and the Convention on Biological Diversity. Kjell Larsson saved the Kyoto Protocol in 1997. Birgitta Dahl and Anna Lindh were behind the environmental objectives system. Margot Wallström developed the Water Directive and the Chemicals Framework REACH when she was Commissioner for the Environment. Anna Lindh and Göran Persson created the environmental code. We Social Democrats are proud of the environmental policy we have built up in Sweden. It is forward-looking and is based on an ideological will to create a sustainable society. An important part of this work is the development of an environmental code, i.e. a comprehensive legislation on environmental requirements. Swedish environmental legislation is internationally recognised and a forerunner for other countries. The Swedish idea is to build legislation that saves valuable nature, gives us a better environment, healthier people and at the same time creates a head start with new technology that lies in the future. The EU Industrial Emissions Directive has also been in place for some years. It is the same idea that we Social Democrats developed for Sweden at one time, namely that new permits for environmentally hazardous activities should require the best possible technology. Mr. Old President! Over the years, important revisions have been made to the Environmental Code aimed at simplifying and speeding up processes. This is important in order to maintain the credibility and robustness of environmental laws and to make it easier for companies to do the right thing. Legislation and the system must be constantly reviewed and simplified. It may also involve strengthening the industry knowledge of the review and consultation authorities, speeding up the processing and developing guidance for the performance of its activities. The Committee on Agriculture and the Environment's report No 8 deals with a legislative amendment to the environmental code. This is a change to the penal code on environmental crime. Briefly, it means that the law is extended to cover all waste management and not as it is today only for storage or disposal. The aim is, of course, that this will enable us to achieve more effective environmental protection. On this issue, we are a united committee, but the report also deals with a number of motions, including on wind power. Mr. Old President! Renewable energy has great potential to expand for a long time to come. Sweden has good and natural conditions for renewable energy with our good access to wind, water, sun and forest. Swedish wind power expansion has in some places been criticised in relation to local interests. Wind power plants require building permits, sometimes also detailed plans based on the Planning and Construction Act. Larger wind turbines are tested according to the environmental code. The issue of local influence in wind power creations is a difficult balance, but it is also important to accommodate local influence. The visual experience can be an important contributing factor to a negative attitude towards establishment in the immediate area. The Vindval report points out that individuals' ability to influence the wind power process also affects their attitude. In cases where the landowner and the companies have gone hand in hand, acceptance of the expansion is strong. According to the same report, the impact of wind power on property values has been analysed in several research projects. The researchers could not then see any significant differences in property prices between properties that were far from and near the wind farm. The decentralised structure of wind power has favoured widespread ownership in the form of shares in wind power cooperatives. This is very positive, not least as it can contribute to increased local anchoring of wind power. I shall conclude by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-879	Mr. Old President! We just sat there and said that we can now say it instead of Mr or Madam President, so we have said it as well. Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on the proposal for an extended environmental crime clause. The proposal is, as I said, a change to the environmental code's penal provision on environmental crime, which extends the criminal area to all waste management that can cause a pollution that is harmful to humans, animals and plants to an extent that is not of minor importance or that may cause other significant inconvenience. The proposal is due to the fact that the European Commission has pointed out the need for clarification in Swedish legislation that this applies precisely to all handling. Today, only waste disposal and disposal operations are covered. Mr. Old President! The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has a broad consensus on this issue and supports the proposal. At the same time, a number of motions are being discussed on various issues. The environmental code aims to promote sustainable development in order to ensure a healthy environment for us and our descendants. I think we all agree on this, so I am going to make a few other points that I think are important. The operator of activities which are not of negligible importance in accordance with the objectives of the Environmental Code shall take precautions and apply the best possible techniques. However, it is important that the objectives of the environmental code are applied in a balanced way. It is therefore important that, when applying the rules of account, a fair balance is made, taking into account the benefits of the precautionary measures and the costs of taking action. There are examples that this may not always be done sufficiently. A water association formed in collaboration with the municipality and landowners and with the help of, among other things, LOVA money a dam to reduce nitrogen emissions. The dam was constructed according to all the rules and instructions that existed at the time of construction. A few years later, the rules on pass-bys for fish were changed. The Water Association then offered to make some improvements and alterations, but the County Administrative Board felt that this was not enough and demanded at first instance that the dam be restored – i.e. that it be filled again. What would that mean for the environment? A return of lots of cubic metres of soil brings damage to nature and increased diesel emissions from trucks. The matter went right up to the highest level, where the Water Association was right. The dust didn't have to be laid back. The case took several years and cost water associations, municipalities and landowners high legal fees and other costs. Mr. Old President! What I want to say by this is that the application of the environmental code is important, and that also applies to the penal provisions of Chapter 29. It is important that there is a balanced application on reasonable terms for our environment, but also that there is a reasonable balance between cost and benefit. After all, there is an assessment of what is very small and what is very significant. In agriculture, some substances are used that require permission to spread in nature and in the fields. It is good that there is control of the spread. But there are also examples of a not always balanced assessment, and the farmer may be met with the argument that agriculture under the environmental code is an environmentally dangerous activity. Sure, some funds are distributed through agriculture, and the activities are to be carried out with control and testing. This is done through authorisation and notification under Chapter 9. The type of activity that can be authorised or notifiable is defined in the Environmental Assessment Regulation. It refers to environmentally hazardous activities and describes agricultural activities as environmentally hazardous activities. I would have liked to have seen a different wording on this, and I believe that many farmers agree with me on this – but also that they should have supervision. Mr. Old President! The Moderates have no reservations in the report. We support the amendment and extension of the environmental code proposed in the bill, but we believe that it is important that the law is applied in a balanced way.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-893	Mr. Old President! I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we have a united committee that supports the Government's proposal to tighten up the environmental code's penal provisions on environmental offences in relation to waste management. It is good that it is made clear that the penal provisions of the law apply to any handling of waste that can cause pollution that is harmful to humans, animals and plants. On this point, I would like to agree with what Maria Strömkvist said in her speech and then move on to talking about a form of pollution that is too rarely debated, although it has been debated in this debate, namely noise pollution. Mr. Old President! Silence has become a scarce commodity in today's society. The air is often filled with engine sounds from cars, trains, airplanes, scooters, lawn mowers, chainsaws and so on. When we experience listening only to the wind, the song of birds, the path of the ski to the snow or the rocks to the ice, we whisper to each other: Do you hear how quiet it is? As biological beings, we feel bad from a lot of noise in our environment, both when we are awake and when we are going to sleep. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency, noise can cause sleeping difficulties and hearing damage, impair learning and increase the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Mr. Old President! If you read this report, you might think that it is the sound of wind turbines that is the major source of noise in today's society. Of course, it is not, although the noise issue is obviously something that needs to be taken into account – and which is also weighed in – when new wind turbines are licensed. But it is not the wind turbines that are the major public health problem in Sweden today. It's the noise from traffic. Traffic noise in the world is an environmental problem with extensive health effects in the form of cardiovascular diseases and strokes. I would therefore particularly like to thank the Liberals, Mr Westerholm and others, for highlighting in their motion this very important issue and the fact that the World Health Organisation, the WHO, identifies environmental noise as the most serious environmental problem following air pollution. Mr. Old President! In today's Sweden there is all too often a vagueness about this. Construction companies and municipal politicians are fiercely protesting when they are not allowed to build homes on trafficked highways. It is complained of rigid regulations and is said that the problem is easily solved with soundproofed facades, triple glass windows and a noise board at the patio. Of course, we must work proactively instead. In a city where cycling, walking and public transport are a priority, it will be easier to build housing without noise pollution. With less traffic and quieter vehicles on our roads we reduce the noise mat in our landscapes. This is something that we in the Green Party have been running for a long time. It is important that we reduce all pollutants in our habitat, including those from engine noise. Mr. Old President! A growing sound problem is the increasing snowmobiling. Many people who want to be out in nature to enjoy the silence, breathe fresh air and charge for coming working days get their skiing and skating trips destroyed by noise and exhaust emissions from snowmobiles. In recent years, the number of scooters in Sweden has increased sharply. The scooters are also getting bigger and stronger, and areas that were previously not available to snowmobilers are now easily accessed. The accidents are also increasing – like the avalanche danger, as it has become a sport to drive as high as possible up high mountains. Today it is sold snowmobiles that cannot be driven on snowmobile trails but are built for fun skiing in lice snow. Snowmobiles are also causing more and more damage to sensitive nature as the higher and higher snowmobile cams drive down into the snow and tear up the sensitive vegetation under the snow that needs a long time to reproduce. Mr. Old President! Current off-road vehicle teams date from 1975. A lot has happened in 40 years. The law basically prohibits all off-road driving on bare land but is unclear when it comes to driving on snow-covered ground. The law was written at a time when off-road vehicles were OTMs. Today we have ten times as many snowmobiles, and many are only used for pleasure skiing. The Swedish rules on snowmobile driving are the most permissive in the world. If there is only enough snow cover and not a young forest, you can drive snowmobiles anywhere except where it is forbidden, i.e. on the roads and areas for which municipalities and county boards have banned. In our neighbouring country, Norway, there is reverse legislation. Entertainment skiing with snowmobiles is in principle prohibited except on designated trails and areas. To go skiing in the Norwegian mountains is therefore a completely different nature experience than in the Swedish, for the benefit of the Norwegian mountain tourism. Mr. Old President! Even in Sweden we must find a balance between those who think it is fun to drive snowmobiles and those who want to experience the silence in the ski tracks. This is also an important issue for landowners and for companies involved in nature tourism. The LRF and the Ecotourism Association agree on this issue that there must be better order for snowmobile skiing. In June 2014, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency presented a government commission to develop proposals for a strategy with milestones, instruments and measures that will contribute to achieving the environmental quality target Storslagen mountain environment. In this report, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposes, among other things, that the Government decide on a interim goal of sustainable off-road driving and that a government investigation be added to review the need for changes in off-road driving legislation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal is now being prepared at the Government Office. That is also the response that the committee has given to my motion for a resolution on greening snowmobile legislation. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to express my hope that the final result of the preparation will be that there will be better rules for snowmobile driving. I believe that we should follow Norway's example and only allow recreational skiing on snowmobile trails and in specially designated free-riding areas. That way someone will not have to draw the rivet one of the most wonderful days of winter.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-914	Mr. Old President! What is the environmental party's solution to the problem of the overconcentration of wolf that is real, including in Värmland, Stina Bergström? You love the rights of small environmental organizations. You support the legal order in which hunting decisions can be appealed to a court. You are in favour of the fact that wolf hunting decisions cannot be enforced because of overly lengthy court proceedings. You are in favour of the Environmental Protection Agency not granting extended hunting time, and you have systematically withdrawn from debates on this issue, so I and the whole of Rural Sweden are very curious about the answer. This applies not least to us in Värmland. How many wolves do you think we can house, and how will the administration of the wolf tribe work without the license hunt that you are fighting with beaks and claws? Small environmental organisations' rights are given to dubious organisations such as Nordulv and Wolf Association Sweden, which through the right of appeal are allowed to stop hunting decisions. And if it doesn't go their way, they use other methods to disrupt the search on the ground through sabotage and threats. How does the Green Party view similar civil disobedience through organisations granted rights of speech – are you in favour of that too?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-917	Mr. Old President! As Runar Filer probably knows, I'm from Värmland. I have been an active politician for many years, and I do not really recognize myself in the picture that I should have ducked for wolf debates. I've been in numerous wolf debates. When wolf is to be debated in the media in Värmland, I am the one to call. Yes, we have many wolves in Värmland. For some domestic owners, it's a problem with wolves. Then I and the Green Party think it is very important that we have a functioning protection hunt. Runar Filer asks if we think it is right that you can appeal decisions that you are or feel concerned about. The answer is yes. It is obvious to the Green Party that we should have a working legal order. We are going to comply with Swedish law, and we are also going to comply with the agreements we have made in Europe on these things. This is precisely what it is about when environmental organisations have the right to appeal against hunting decisions. Then I think it is important that we have a system in place so that the hunting decisions are appealed in good time and that we have a legal process that will be completed before the hunting time has expired if there is a negative decision for those who have appealed.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-921	Mr. Old President! Sure, Stina Bergström, you have participated in the debate in Värmland, but here in Parliament it has been very quiet in interpellation debates and such. The Chairman of Nordulv, Sanna Cronhielm, claimed in 2013 that she would attempt to sabotage wolf hunting by acting as a living shield between hunter and wolf. She is an environmentalist politician and also a judge on behalf of the Environmental Party in the District Court. So managing the wolf tribe through protection hunting is the environmental party's melody. Then every protection hunting decision may be appealed by the said small organisations, the Rovjursföreningen and Naturskyddsföreningen. American research describes what non-hunting can have for society as a whole and for the wolf tribe. The interpretation of an EU directive in a changing environment in societies that are not allowed to implement democratically adopted decisions will most likely lead to an extensive illegal hunt, poaching. That's what the scientists are warning us about. Höljes, Värnäs and Trång are three vargrevir in Torsby municipality. Musån and Acksjön are located in Hagfors municipality. There were six wolf pairs until last autumn. Wolves from these five territories-- it could be 20 to 30 wolves-- are lost without a trace. That is the result of the tough legal process: illegal hunting. There you take the law into your own hands.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-926	Mr. Old President! I didn't hear any more question from Runar Filer. I can only say that poaching in territory is frightening and boring. It does not facilitate wolf management when emptying territory. In this case of the territory up in northern Värmland, there may not be any problems with domestication either. It is better that we shoot wolves that are close to the tambo scene and cause problems than that we shoot wolves that do not cause problems. That is my view and that of the Green Party.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-928	Mr. Old President! I would actually continue to discuss noise. We even got some praise, and I guess I'll have to thank you for that. As a Green Liberal, I can also say that this issue of the expansion of renewable energy is very important. However, I believe that Stina Bergström and the Green Party are on a rather dangerous road when discussing wind power and ignoring the noise and interference that exists. Wind power is by definition something so good that you do not want to admit that it can be disturbing. It is linked to what I discussed about decibels: What is disturbing and not disturbing? I think it even says in this report that it has to do with the experience. The person who owns a wind turbine and earns money from it is disturbed considerably less than the one who only suffers from the sound. I think that there must be a balance even when we are discussing wind power, because basically we have to say that it is industrial activity. It must be placed right, and it is very careful how to plan and take into account noise in that context. I wanted to go up and say this, because it felt like Stina Bergström somehow healthy wind power. Then you can definitely find other things that overall give greater health problems. But this is a fairly new phenomenon in society, even though it has been going on for a number of decades. When it comes to housing construction, there must be some kind of balance, so that the technical knowledge that still exists is exploited. Otherwise, we would find it very difficult to condensate our cities, which have other benefits in terms of the environment, climate and so on. It's a balancing act all the time. Of course, it is important to include noise.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-933	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much, Lars Tysklind, for giving me the opportunity to clarify whether I was unclear in my speech! Of course, I and the Green Party do not think that the noise from the wind turbines would be less of a problem than other noise. I also said in my speech that I think it is important to strike such a balance when authorising wind turbines. There's a 40-decibel boundary at the house when it comes to wind turbines. It is also the case that a lower decibel level is allowed for wind power, because it is not just about strengths but also about frequencies. Of course I think this. I think that every possible consideration must be given to the establishment of wind turbines. It's about landscapes and things like that too. However, I said this because I thought that the report contained a great deal of wording on noise from wind turbines and a little less wording on what is the major problem: traffic noise. Of course, we must use solutions such as triple glazing and soundproofed facades. Then I think that it is perhaps primarily for the houses that are built today, because it is some places that should not be built on according to the rules in force. That's what I was after. Sometimes the debate on noise becomes like this: It's not a problem as long as you get it reasonably quiet indoors. But we also need to be out. Our children need to be out on the farms and play. We need to sit on our balconies and patios without being disturbed too much by noise. That is why I talked about it in the speech. I still think it's better that we work with the source, the cause, the noise and create cities without so much noise pollution.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-938	Mr. Old President! We may not have to prolong the debate, but it is important that we have been told this. When it comes to building houses, there is much research on how houses can be designed. You can angle house facades and such precisely to prevent noise. There's a lot to take advantage of. In our exercise and reservation, that is really what we are highlighting. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should have as an important task to highlight the knowledge and research available, so that it uses it to protect people from exposure to unnecessary noise. With the new framework for housing, we have achieved a much better predictability. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency coordinates, and there is a new noise regulation that makes you know what applies. When it comes to detailed planning, the problem of noise should be addressed. Once the detailed plan is adopted, it is the norm that applies. Otherwise, it has been a problem with housing construction that it has been appealed afterwards. Then, like, everything has fallen. Much clearer rules have emerged about this during the time of the alliance government. I think that's good.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-941	Mr. Old President! Isn't that right? Why don't I fill up a little more? I also see that as we work with more car-free inner cities it becomes easier to densify the cities. We're freeing up more space. We can use large areas that have previously just parked cars on to build houses. But it is also a question of getting quieter vehicles. The development of electric cars is very exciting. There I see with little concern the work that is going on in the European Union that we should have provisions that electric cars must sound because they are dangerous to traffic when they become so quiet. I've been looking forward to cities with quiet electric vehicles, where there's no noise. I think we need to act from different sides to put an end to stupid regulations on it.
i-SdWaE6uZP7c7P7gJ3Gi3ok	§ 12 Riksrevisionens report Arctic Council – what Sweden can do to meet the Council's challenges
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-944	Mr. Old President! This is a report that may seem rather small. However, it is one of our major areas, the Arctic, north of the 60th parallel. This is the second debate we have about the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Arctic Council and Sweden's activities in the Arctic Council. We received the report to the Riksdag in April 2015. It has soon been a year since it was handed over to the government. And we have received a government view of the Swedish National Audit Office's review. We are dealing with this together with a number of motions in this report. It is in itself a unique revision, Mr President-in-Office, because it is the first time that an audit of the work of the Arctic Council has been carried out. It is done jointly by several Member States, except Sweden by Norway, Russia, Denmark and the United States. That is of course very interesting. As I said, it is a follow-up to a work that has been going on for 20 years this year. It was in 1996 that the Arctic Council was created by eight nations. The Arctic is a sensitive area. A lot of people think of ice. But, as I said, it is about the area north of the 60th parallel. Of course, we have a very special situation as a result of climate change when the ice-covered part of the Arctic opens up. I am thinking of the changes that result from this. It's marine very sensitive. These are areas that are unexploited that suddenly become possible to exploit. It requires special care and care. That is why we in the Center Party were proud of the strategy that Sweden developed during its Presidency and the results that we achieved that are about reforming the work of the Arctic Council and making it more effective. We had a permanent secretariat in Tromsö, which is important for the structure of the work, two new agreements on sea and air rescue and cooperation agreements on oil spills. But they are not binding. That's one of the problems. Other problems concern the recommendations made in the Arctic Council regarding implementation and how to report on results. There are some improvements on the way, but a lot remains to be done. It is important that priority be given to the work. There are 80 different project groups working, and it is clear that it is necessary to try to get a good structure in order to also achieve results. There are therefore many challenges to be faced. We are pleased with the Swedish strategy that was developed. It was the first time in all these years that Sweden developed a strategy for our work in the Arctic Council. The government did so in 2011. It was a priority then of climate and environment, economic development and the human dimension. My thought was of course: What does the new government do? Is the old strategy still in place? Judging by the letter from the government, this is the case, although we have seen a memo from 25 January referred to in the report. But that memo is pretty limited, Mr. Old President. It's a memo from the Department of the Environment that doesn't lift anything new. That is why we will continue to insist on what is being said in our motions and also in the reservation on the report. We want to see a binding agreement for safe shipping routes, and we also want a strategy for the marine environment. We believe that Parliament should make the government aware of this. Of course, we also want to improve monitoring and implementation, and we would like the government to develop an action plan for the Arctic region, because much is happening, even if the fully exploited part of oil and gas extraction is currently down as a result of oil prices. I would ask for time-winning approval only for the reservation in paragraph 1 of the report. I had hoped, Mr President-in-Office, that we would have a discussion with several participants on the new direction of the government's environmental policy mentioned in the report. The five sides are not a new direction. There are three points that are empty and empty. It would have been exciting, Mr. Age President, if Valter Mutt of the Green Party had taken part in today's debate, but now he does not. Nevertheless, I cannot help but amuse myself with reading from the debate we had a year ago, when Valter Mutt talked about the strategy at the time as something that lacked importance, lacked content, was a voodoon. There were 58 pages, and now reference is made to the new direction, and there are five pages that do not contain anything new, Mr President-in-Office. I had received with curiosity an exposé of the Green Party's government work to renew the strategy and to bring out what we would both like to see, namely a moratorium. I have not spoken of a ten-year moratorium, but when we discussed it a year ago, some argued it. But I see that the Green Party – perhaps for natural reasons – has chosen not to participate in the debate today on the second part of the Arctic audit. If they had, it would have been exciting to read some quotes. Perhaps, Mr. Old President, they have read them themselves and realized that it is best for them to stay home.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-958	Mr. Old President! The Left Party considers it important and welcome that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed Sweden's work in the Arctic Council. When it comes to the review by the Swedish National Audit Office, their recommendations and how the government has chosen to react to them, we support the committee's report. However, today's report also deals with more horizontal issues concerning Sweden's Arctic policy. The Left Party has chosen to write a motivational reservation because we see great need for a more active Swedish Arctic policy, not least after a few years with a bourgeois government with a very cautious and passive policy regarding the major challenges in terms of both climate and security policy facing the Arctic. The Arctic is a unique part of our planet. For 800 000 years, parts of the Arctic Sea have been covered in ice. In the Arctic Sea and in the surrounding land areas, a unique, but also very sensitive, natural and animal life has developed. Today, the Arctic is home to more than 4 million people. Many of them belong to various indigenous peoples, such as the Sami, who have lived in the Arctic for millennia and have developed their culture in harmony with the unique natural conditions. Today, the threats to the Arctic are more serious than ever before. In few other parts of the world, climate change has been so extensive and has had such dramatic consequences for plant life, animals and humans. In the wake of climate change, new challenges arise. When the ice melts, the extraction of natural resources in the Arctic is made possible, and new transport routes are opened up through the northeast and northwest passages. This poses new threats to the environment and increases the risk of security policy tensions in the region. Parts of Sweden are located in the Arctic, and the Arctic is to be regarded as our country's absolute neighbourhood. Climate change, environmental threats and security policy conflicts in the Arctic will therefore have a direct impact on our country as well. Mr. Old President! On 25 January, the Government presented a new Swedish environmental policy for the Arctic. From this document it can be seen that the government wants to raise its ambition for its work and chooses to go further than previous governments. But we must also be honest: the threats to the Arctic are such that drastic action is needed. I have very little opinion on the proposals put forward by the Government in its new Swedish environmental policy for the Arctic in terms of communicating the effects of climate change in the Arctic, making recommendations in the Arctic Council on resilience and demanding full financial coverage of oil and gas companies for the costs that could arise in the event of accidents in the Arctic. But let us also be honest: these efforts are in no way sufficient with the enormous threats facing the Arctic. It is estimated that one third of the world's undetected natural gas reserves and just over 10 percent of the world's oil reserves are in the Arctic. The United States has already allowed oil companies to drill in Alaska, eastern Greenland will open up for oil drilling, and in northern Russia active preparations are under way for large-scale oil extraction. The Left Party believes that Sweden must act to prevent exploitation of the Arctic's oil and gas deposits. We would therefore like Sweden to work for an Arctic Convention that bans the exploitation of the region's oil and gas resources over the next 100 years. A similar convention already exists for Antarctica. Pending the entry into force of a convention, Sweden should act in favour of a moratorium on oil and gas extraction in the Arctic. Today, the responsibility of states for the oceans is governed by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (Unclo). The Convention regulates, inter alia, economic activities, environmental issues and the extraction of natural resources in the oceans. Sweden and over 160 countries have ratified the Convention. All countries bordering the Arctic have ratified and signed the Convention – with one exception: the United States. It is therefore important that Sweden works to persuade the United States to both sign and ratify the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. We must also see that the Arctic's natural resources and opportunities for new transport routes, which can be opened up in the wake of climate change, mean that more and more countries are now looking north and starting to look after their interests, including by military means. This is demonstrated, among other things, by an increased military presence in the Arctic and an increasing number of people increasing their claims in this area. The Left Party wants Sweden to initiate a convention for the Arctic, which would mean a demilitarisation of the region. Such a convention already exists for Svalbard and Björnön. Let us work to extend this convention to the entire Arctic. We must also realise that many of the states that are now showing an increasing interest in the Arctic have nuclear weapons. We know that nuclear weapons have already been in the Arctic through nuclear submarines, which several of the states along the Arctic edges have. Today, large parts of the world are covered by nuclear-free zones, or zones free of weapons of mass destruction. They are found in Latin America, Africa and the South Pole, in Antarctica. We want Sweden to now work to establish a zone free of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction in the Arctic as well. That is why I support the Left Party's reservation 3.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-971	Mr. Old President! After all, I'm curious. Since the Left Party and the Green Party had joint reservations a year ago – there is no representative from the Green Party here – I was going to ask you a question. Hans Linde usually reads well; we know that. What is the new feature of the memorandum that has been developed? It talks about strengthening climate action, better protection of biodiversity and ecosystems and sustainable use of resources. What is the new in relation to the strategy that is still in force? And what is the attitude of the government's strategy to the memorandum drawn up by the Government Office? I am a little curious to hear whether the Left Party and the Green Party have possibly consulted on these issues.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-972	Mr. Old President! I can say no. We have had no consultation with the Green Party or with the Social Democrats. The document prepared and presented on 25 January is a document prepared by the Government in its own process. In that process I have not been more involved than Kerstin Lundgren. My party has been no more involved than the Center Party. I shall not act as a stand-in for the Green Party in this debate. They may take responsibility for their own documents and actions. I am happy to talk about the policy of the Left Party and about the motion that we presented last parliamentary term with our proposals and thoughts on how Swedish Arctic policy should be developed. I'll be honest with you. I have read both the strategy of the previous government and what has now been presented in a memo from the new government. I think that the necessary new proposals that I would have liked to see and which I have also called for in my speech are missing. I would have liked the new government to have had the courage to go further in its Arctic policy. If I am to try to see any difference in the statements made by the new government compared to the previous government's statements, I still think I see a desire for a higher ambition and a greater understanding of the enormous climate challenges facing the Arctic. But, Kerstin Lundgren, I do not see any significant differences in the document presented by the new government compared to what the previous government presented. I regret that, because neither this document nor the strategy presented by the government of Kerstin Lundgren is in any way sufficient in terms of the enormous challenges facing the Arctic.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-975	Mr. Old President! As I said, it was a first strategy developed by our government. I assume that it still applies. As I now read the new little memo from the government, I note that, for example, with regard to new regional instruments for the Arctic seas, which is an important issue, we are talking about the US initiative for a feasibility study and that Sweden will be actively involved. It is the kind of markers that I understand that Hans Linde sees as some kind of volition to do more than the previous government did. Mr. Old President! The committee refers to the new memo as a new environmental policy for the Arctic. To be honest, I think it is a non-existent environmental policy that can be read about in this memo, and strategy is completely lacking. Welcome to call for approval of our proposals and announce to the government some good ideas for a strengthened environmental policy and a strengthened effort on, for example, marine issues in the Arctic.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-977	Mr. Old President! I hear what Kerstin Lundgren says. But I do not really know what relevance it has for the Left Party and for my speech here in this debate. This is a memorandum for which the government has produced and for which we are not responsible. These questions may be asked by Kerstin Lundgren to later speakers from the government parties. I have to say, however, that on some points the government chooses not to highlight things which the previous government highlighted and which I thought were problematic in the previous strategy. I shall take a very concrete example. When it comes to oil extraction and gas extraction in the Arctic, I remember how the previous government's strategy also highlighted this as an opportunity for Swedish business. It was seen that there were opportunities for jobs, for new profits and for the export success of Swedish companies in extracting natural resources in this very sensitive area. I thought it was problematic that this was not seen as such a great threat and that we should rather work towards a moratorium and a halt to the extraction of natural resources in the Arctic. I do not see this type of wording and hope for future Swedish extractions of oil and gas resources in the Arctic in the new government memo on a new Swedish environmental policy for the Arctic. If these perspectives are toned down by the new government, I am the first to welcome it. After all, however, both the Government memo and the previous Government's strategy unfortunately lack the necessary efforts to save the Arctic from climate change, from environmental threats and from growing security policy tensions in the region.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-982	Mr. Old President! I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected. The Arctic is as big as Africa. One of the differences, apart from the climate, is that there are about 900 million people living in Africa and that there are about 4 million people living in the Arctic. One of the reasons, of course, is that it is simply not possible to settle in the Arctic in the same way as in Africa. It therefore makes decision-making and coordination all the more important when fewer people are geographically able to update and inform decision-makers about climate change, variations in the unique nature, marine environment and species richness. The Arctic Council therefore has an extremely important role to play. The threats to the uniqueness of the Arctic are increasing. Climate change leads to ice melting, leading to significant challenges and, of course, changes in the current ecological balance. Some animal species are decreasing in the population, and possibly others are added. The demands for the exploitation of natural resources are increasing exponentially, and the desire for new shipping routes as a result of ice melting creates additional challenges but also some opportunities. Mr. Old President! The countries of the Arctic Council are called upon to reach consensus decisions. It is, of course, a strength but also an absolute challenge. The countries themselves fund various projects to protect and evaluate the Arctic. At the same time, however, the agendas of the countries are very different in many respects in terms of the future of the Arctic. The coordination of projects is therefore particularly important, and it is the government's view both that the coordination of projects must be made more efficient and that the financing of the projects should be more transparent and long-term so that projects are not interrupted prematurely because there is no funding. Project Support Instrument, PSI, is an instrument for allocating financial support to priority projects within the Arctic Council. Members voluntarily contribute to the instrument, as the Russian Federation, Norway, Finland, Iceland, the United States, Sweden and the Council of Sami States have chosen to do. The Government notes that the prerequisites for carrying out scientific projects within the Arctic Council are largely dependent on national funding but that the instrument PSI is a welcome contribution to improving funding opportunities. Mr. Old President! The Canadian Presidency developed a database as an instrument for inventorying and monitoring the various projects. The database contains all ongoing projects within the Arctic Council, and the Secretariat updates it twice a year ahead of the Committee of Officials meetings. It provides a good overview of the status, objectives and timeframes of the projects. The government believes that the database is a good start to provide a better overview of the large number of projects under way within the Arctic Council and that it can thus, in the long term, contribute to a better allocation of resources. Mr. Old President! It is also important that the recommendations adopted in the Arctic Council are followed up by the relevant authorities and ministries. Here the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has a special responsibility, and a united committee attaches particular importance to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs having a customary close follow-up to the recommendations, especially at these times when the work of the Arctic Council has extra opportunities and challenges. In the recently debated PM, the Government considers that enhanced resources and efforts are needed in the Arctic Council on Climate and Renewable Energy, increased demands to ensure the highest level of protection in oil drilling and exploration, increased legal protection for sensitive nature and the creation of institutions that guarantee and ensure sustainable fisheries in the Arctic. Arctic coastal states exercise sovereign rights in the extraction and exploration of natural resources in the Arctic. As I mentioned earlier, therefore, there will be an extra challenge to the objectives of protecting the Arctic and its unique nature and species richness. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, there is a particular need for enhanced protection of sea areas outside national jurisdiction also in the Arctic. The Government wants to see an implementation agreement for the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea with the overall objective of protecting and preserving marine biodiversity in these areas and creating the best conditions for protecting the entire Arctic.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-992	Mr. Old President! I am once again curious about how to relate to the memo. Does this replace the 58-page strategy developed by Sweden in 2011 on five pages? Is that how you're supposed to see it? Is the PM the government's Arctic policy while the strategy is to be thrown into the trash basket, or what is its status? It would be interesting to know in order to be able to value this, also for the Riksdag when we are now going to work on monitoring the government's work.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-993	Mr. Old President! Take ack for the question, Kerstin Lundgren! I see it more as a further reinforcement and also as a statement from the government that one looks a little more closely at certain issues. However, the strategy that has been developed has, of course, a good foundation in what the previous Parliament, and also the government, had a – I would argue – relatively good consensus on. Some issues have been reinforced in the perception. It's not a totally revolutionary new environmental policy, as I think Kerstin Lundgren also realises, but it's probably just a new focus on certain issues – or perhaps reinforces certain words and opinions to make it even clearer and to mark. I think that perhaps a new strategy paper will gradually emerge later, which is equally extensive, 58 pages, but I cannot comment on this because it is the government that will submit it to Parliament.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-995	Mr. Old President! If I interpret the government's representatives in this House correctly, then the section on economic development in the Arctic, for example, which I discussed in a previous shift in line with Mr Linde, remains. I note that in the small memo it was not revolutionary news, but I am still curious. What's the real news in the memo?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-996	Mr. Old President! I want to take note of the following, and I think that Mr Linde said it quite well. In particular, the government has clearly highlighted the safety value of oil exploration. I understand Kerstin Lundgren's idea of economic development. As this has not been clearly commented on in the memo, I will allow the government to come back with that comment. What is said in the memo is what has emerged as a further complement to the previous strategy that was put forward, and I assume that there will be even clearer recommendations for the other chapters that have not been commented on. Otherwise, the strategy remains in place until something further emerges. However, I am quite sure of the following, Mr President-in-Office: in terms of oil exploration and this type of extra-strong protection, as stated in the memo – and I know that this is also reflected in the strategy, Kerstin Lundgren – it is a very important extra mark from the current government, and to some extent from the previous government. I thank the previous government for that.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-999	Mr. Old President! This is not only a chance for the Foreign Affairs Committee to discuss the review of the Swedish National Audit Office; after all, it is also the only chance we in the committee have, as we know, to discuss that government launched on 25 January as a new Swedish environmental policy for the Arctic. Therefore, despite the fact that the clock is getting heavy, I would like to take the opportunity to ask Mr Niemi a few questions from the Social Democrats. In the document presented by the government, we are talking about demanding full financial coverage of oil and gas companies for possible future costs in the event of an accident in the Arctic, and that is a good thing. But there are no sharp proposals in the government memo on how to work to actually stop oil and gas extraction. If we are to meet the environmental and climate challenge and the 1.5°C target, we must ensure that we prevent oil and gas extraction, not least in the Arctic, where we know that extraction would risk such unique values. We know that oil drilling has started in Alaska, that we are looking at East Greenland and that there is a lot of activity in northernmost Russia. Gazprom, Statoil and Shell are extremely active in the region. We can see now that the oil price is low that many of the companies have chosen to put their work on ice – I heard someone appreciated the word – but everyone realises that the activities will start again on the day the oil price starts to rise. I would therefore like to ask Mr Niemi: how is it that the government does not want to work towards a stop to oil and gas extraction? For example, it could be a convention, which already exists for Antarctica, or a moratorium on oil and gas extraction in the coming years.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1003	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Mr Linde for his support, as I see it. It is also the case, I think, that in a situation where the Arctic Council is to reach a kind of consensus decision in many opinions, there is obviously an entrance from the government to meet up with as constructively as possible. But I take note of what Mr Linde says, namely that we must be extremely observant of not going over the natural resources and natural resources that are there. If we do not go in and mark in a good and sensible way, many other prospectors will also take advantage of those opportunities. I fully share that view. I do not want to take the view of the government on this issue, but I can still imagine that there is certainly an ambition to be as restrictive as possible in order to accommodate entirely other sources of energy that we can use and that are renewable. Like Hans Linde, I am extremely concerned about the developments that have taken place and the signals that have been given in relation to the entire Arctic, that many prospectors think this may be the world's chance to do something else and find new sources to work with. I do not think we have a different view from what the Left Party has on the issue of protecting, nurturing and protecting as far as possible. But I do not want to happen what has been written, but I take with me the message of the Left Party. Somewhere we may meet in a continued good and constructive discussion on this matter.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1009	Mr. Old President! I thank Mr Niemi for his reply. I'm not naive. I realise that it will be very difficult to get some kind of convention or moratorium through the Arctic Council, given how the Arctic Council is constructed. At the same time, I feel that if you're going to get there, you have to start raising the demands. After all, we can see that the success of this kind of convention is being achieved in the case of Antarctica. I would also like to raise another issue with regard to the government document A new Swedish environmental policy for the Arctic. Although there is a strong focus on environmental and climate issues, I completely miss an analysis of the security policy implications for the Arctic and the region of the melting of the ice, the opening up of new transport routes and the increasing number of countries looking north, including military, to safeguard their interests. We have already seen examples of how several countries have chosen to ship nuclear submarines to the Arctic. Here there is an interest for Sweden to preserve the Arctic as a peaceful region that we can cooperate on, which can connect us. I have noted how the new government has chosen to work for, for example, a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East. And we also see nuclear-free zones in Latin America, Africa and Antarctica. I am a little bit concerned that the new government does not choose to raise a demand for a nuclear-free zone or a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the Arctic. It would be interesting to hear from Pyry Niemi why the government chooses not to highlight such an important demand.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1014	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your comments. I share the concerns expressed by Mr Linde. It is clear that we are very interested in seeing that the Arctic is preserved as far as possible in its present form. There's so much wealth there. And it would be most unfortunate if it were to become a platform for further military rearmament of the major countries around the world. I share that view too. However, as the government has not at present expressed any opinion per se on the question raised by Mr Linde, I do not want to include it in this discussion or debate. However, I share the concern with Mr Linde that we are coming to a situation where, for example, there are ice-free shipping routes that allow for transport other than ordinary container transports, which can necessarily find new roads that may also be useful to some extent. Then there must not be another place to rearrange. I hope that the major powers recognise this fact that the Arctic has such high levels of protection and will be preserved in its present form and function and not become another Arctic that none of us really want to take part in.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1017	Mr. Old President! Today we are discussing the Government's letter following a report from the Arctic Council. The committee has a great deal of agreement on this matter. It is good that the Swedish National Audit Office also thinks that the Arctic Council is a valuable forum. In conclusion, it is said that it is good but can get better. Much of the organizational improvements were made when Sweden was chairman. Of course, there is more to be done, especially when the activity grows. The importance of the Arctic's security policy is increasing, because climate change can, whether we like it or not, change trade routes, for example, and cooperation is needed to prevent conflicts and deal with environmental risks. In principle, there are three things that we in the Moderates and the Alliance think are important. The Arctic Council is a good example of regionalisation. It's a movement that we see around the world. It's a geographical commitment. Often it is based on proximity but also on values. Nordic cooperation is a well-known example, but here too it is good that the countries affected take responsibility. At the same time, it is important for the observer states, because they also strengthen the Arctic Council as an organisation. It's about diplomacy in advance. The Arctic Council contributes to increased professionalisation in international contacts. There's a deal. And we will continue to work for the Arctic to become a low-voltage area of security policy. Here, too, order is needed. Despite the challenges and the fact that there may be better follow-up to the Council's recommendations, this is an area with great potential. The formality is reasonably in place, much thanks to the Swedish Presidency. It is a major challenge if countries join forces and just want to pursue their own issues. Mr. Old President! The cooperation in the Arctic has large upsides. It is important to find sustainable development of the region and to see the Arctic as the asset for the region as it is. It creates jobs and growth. It saves the environment. It increases security in our part of the world.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1029	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the introduction of a new quality assurance system. The last time it happened was barely six years ago. At that time the proposal was severely criticised by a unanimous opposition who thought that the proposal should be thrown into the trash. So much better then that the Riksdag did not listen to that ear but instead decided in accordance with the Alliance's proposal. Evaluations have shown that this system has been a strong driver of quality and has thus improved the quality of both students and working life and of academia's internal work. This shows not least the large evaluation project that we in Parliament's Education Committee have initiated. At the same time, I must admit that I was both disappointed and upset by some of the results of the project. I was disappointed because the project shows that the quality work at several higher education institutions was not as structured as I thought. I was upset because this has affected students who have invested both time and money in succeeding in their studies and who have not received the high-quality education they are entitled to expect. Of course, it is not justifiable that many higher education institutions previously did not engage in systematic quality work. This is what both principals and study managers testify to in the evaluation. There were even those responsible for training who for a long time knew that they were offering substandard courses but had not taken any action. It is nothing but unacceptable, and it is our responsibility to ensure that this does not happen again. At least we have some responsibility. Of course, it is primarily the responsibility of higher education institutions, but we also have a part in it. Fortunately, as I said, there are positive results in the evaluation of the Education Committee. This is also confirmed in the evaluation that the University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, has done. UKÄ believes that the evaluation system has had quality-driven effects at different levels and exemplifies everything from the structure and content of the programmes to increased collaboration between different programmes within one and the same HEI. Why are we Moderates then prepared to move away from a system that we know has contributed positively to the quality and educational outcomes and instead vote for a quality assurance system that focuses more on the internal work of higher education institutions? Well, a major aber with the previous system was that it was not accepted by the international evaluation institute ENQA, an institute linked to the Bologna system. This put Swedish students and alumni at risk, which of course could not be accepted. Therefore, the Alliance government set up an investigation to work out a new system. It was presented at the end of 2014, but only now are we ready to decide on the framework for the same. However, the system is not ready. When the Riksdag has decided on the framework, further development work will be carried out, and the Government considers that the system can only enter into force next six months. It is much too late because the last national evaluation took place a year and a half ago. Let us therefore sincerely hope that the good improvement work that has been launched at many universities has also continued. At least the University of Borås seems to be at. When UKÄ evaluated what the quality enhancement funds to the humsam area had meant for the educations – remember that this is about the 60% increase that the Alliance government made of the grants per full year student – a representative from Borås commented on it like this:. UKÄ's quality evaluation system and its focus on the degree projects has affected our quality work more than money. ..................................................... It is precisely this that must be the aim: to bring about a real change in the system in the institutions, a shift in quality. With regard to the new framework for the quality assurance system, as set out in today's UbU9 report, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 3, even though we Moderates naturally support our other reservations as well. Mr. Old President! I have devoted a great deal of my speech to talking about the effects of the previous system. It is conscious because I find that we politicians are often bad at actually following up and learning from past experiences. After all, theory and practice are not always the same and what we decide in Parliament in all our wisdom does not in fact always have the desired effect. That is also why I am particularly pleased that, thanks to the Alliance initiative, we have got the entire Education Committee to give three important messages to the government: two that require monitoring and evaluation of the new system and one that concerns how the quality of education can be compared between different universities. A serious flaw that we Moderates see when we compare the old and the new system is precisely that the students' ability to make well-informed choices is reduced. In addition to the fact that it is to the detriment of the students, we believe that it can also have negative consequences for the motivation of higher education institutions to improve and develop their programmes. We Moderates and the Alliance find it incomprehensible that the government itself has not lifted and spoken out on this issue. The importance of monitoring and evaluation has already been mentioned, but I would like to add that in future follow-ups it is important to highlight how students' and working life's experiences are taken into account in the assessment work. It is of course important that the new system is not only for academia but also to measure the impact and results for students and working life. I hope and assume that the government will take this on board, because it is remarkable how casual the government otherwise views the important issue of student employability. How the framework has been able to omit the possibility of taking part in alumni' views on their education is strange. We in the Alliance are well aware of the methodological problems that arose in the previous system. But internationally, alumni' views are judged to have a very high relevance, and they are considered a key tool for quality monitoring and quality assurance. That is why the government should have raised this very issue. Mr. Old President! There is another issue concerning the new quality assurance system. It's about the 300 million that disappeared. It was money that the Alliance government set aside to reward the training that was found to be of the highest quality in UKÄ's evaluations. This money was decided by the government to take away already in the budget work. We Moderates questioned it because the new quality assurance system was not, and in fact is still not, decided. But that we, and above all the universities, would see these quality millions disappear completely despite the government's promises, probably no one believed. It is, to say the least, deplorable and a great betrayal of the entire university system. It is also the case that today's resource allocation system, which was introduced in the 1990s in recent times, has been questioned because it can contribute to higher education institutions letting students through a little too easily. The quality-based allocation of resources was a complement which could partially curb this. That is why the government's action on this issue is truly remarkable and worrying.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1050	Mr. Old President! The higher education sector is the largest government sector in Sweden, and every year the state spends many billions on higher education. Not only does the state invest in higher education, but so do many students with both their time and resources. In order to ensure that the great resources spent on this every year are not in vain, a good quality assurance system for higher education is important, and we are discussing this today. It is important that such a system strengthens quality, drives development forward and increases competition. For the Center Party, it is particularly important that higher education leads to jobs, that it is available throughout the country and that it is of high quality. It is crucial to cope with international competition and the supply of local skills. The latest quality assurance system introduced by the Alliance proved to be both quality-driven and successful in many respects. Unfortunately, the current government has not chosen to refine, improve and develop this system, but instead to change systems altogether. In addition, in the autumn's budget, it was chosen to remove the money intended to reward the quality of the system, which the Center Party considers to be unfortunate. For us, it is also important that systems are comparable so that students can make balanced decisions as to which education to attend. They're making a big investment in their education. The new system that the government has presented and which we are discussing is based on the institutions evaluating and reviewing themselves. That is something we must accept because it is required by the international evaluation body ENQA. Nevertheless, we can work to increase comparability in other ways, and we are critical of the government's unwillingness to do so in the basic proposal that has been presented. It becomes more difficult for students to make informed choices about their biggest investment in life if it is difficult to compare the courses. Mr. Old President! For the Center Party, it is important that education leads to jobs. Most people who choose to pursue higher education do so because they want a job, because education may be required for the job they want to train to or to strengthen their chances in the labour market. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to ignore and not include the perspectives of the former students, the so-called alumni. We think that is the wrong way to go. The alumni have a good knowledge of how education has functioned and how it has improved their chances in the labour market. Of course, these points need to be highlighted. Most graduates actually move on to the labour market, and the link between them is therefore crucial. Just a few weeks or a few months ago, Saco's Student Council together with Teknikföretagen presented a report showing that every other student is dissatisfied with the link between education and working life. It is of course important that we ensure that we have a quality assurance system that rewards and strengthens these elements for future students, so that they can make informed choices. Madam President, I would like Finally, although we are critical of parts of the system that has been presented, I would like to point out that it is gratifying that the representatives of the government and the whole committee have agreed and are united in three of the motions put forward by the Alliance in successive motions. It is linked to the evaluation of the quality assurance system – both in the short term through the annual report and after three years through a major study of whether the system has been a quality driver, because we know that the previous system introduced by the Alliance was. It is also important to link with comparability. I am excited to follow what the government is presenting to increase comparability. It is incredibly important for students and higher education institutions that there is good competition and that you can choose the courses that have the highest quality. This is precisely what we are going to do with a quality assurance system. When we, both the state and individual students, spend so much time and resources on education, we need to know that quality is the measure. It is therefore extremely important that a quality assurance system supports this. I would like to conclude with the fact that the Center Party supports all our positions, but for time-winning I only ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1066	Madam President, I would like I have the impression that the Government Office has been considering in recent weeks whether to withdraw the letter that the Parliament is now debating. The attention of the last few weeks around Karolinska Institutet suggests that one should perhaps not reduce the external review but rather supplement it with other things. This applies to both higher education and research – it is needed both. Therefore, it would perhaps be reasonable for the government to consider whether to withdraw it and try to meet the Riksdag in a broad agreement. In this particular area, it would have been crucial to have a broad agreement on a sustainable evaluation system that both the alliance parties and the red-green government can support. It would have provided a welcome clarity and structure for this sector. In order for Sweden to be a high-level knowledge nation, higher education institutions and universities must have very high quality. They must be in an internationally high class. I think this is one of the most important factors for Sweden to cope with the tough global competition that we face in the long term. In order to strengthen the quality of higher education, the Alliance government introduced a national quality assurance system a few years ago, which meant that the review should be impartial and external, that all education leading to first and second-cycle degrees should be evaluated, that all courses should be rated in three steps, and that courses receiving the lowest grades should either be discontinued or restructured in order to achieve higher quality. There were shortcomings in the system which, of course, need to be addressed. It must be supplemented in order not least to meet the requirements set by ENQA, but not to be abolished. UKÄ's evaluation, which has previously described the system, shows that it was clearly the driving force of quality. The teaching institutions took a wide range of measures to improve quality and made strategic consideration of the range they would have in training, thanks to the external review carried out. The system meant that similar programmes from different universities could be compared. It was important, both for the universities themselves to match each other and for the students, as mentioned earlier, to be able to compare their programmes and choose the very best, because it is a great investment that the students make. The evaluations carried out by Parliament's Education Committee also show that there was a clear quality drive in the evaluation system introduced by the Alliance Government in 2011. Madam President, I would like The government is now proposing that the system of quality assurance be changed in higher education. The current system is being set aside. Universities and higher education institutions need to evaluate themselves and their own quality more than they do now. The University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, will focus on controlling the quality systems of higher education institutions rather than reviewing the outcome. You put more focus on process and less on results, but I think that both are needed. Instead of evaluating all educations at basic, advanced, research and so on, the government now wants only a small number of educations to be reviewed and evaluated externally. I think it's unfortunate. Madam President, I would like This should be put into the context that Betty Malmberg, among others, raised. Not only do they downgrade and dismantle external quality evaluations, but they also remove the extra specific quality funds introduced by the Alliance Government, which would be a premium for those with the highest quality. They would drive and improve the quality of education in Swedish higher education institutions and universities in general. Not only does the government change the evaluation system and remove the extra premium money for the highest quality, but it also continues to increase the quantity of higher education institutions without matching it with quality investments in general. Overall, this means a policy that I believe risks significantly impairing the quality of Swedish higher education in the long term, perhaps already in the short term. This is very worrying for those students who spend a lot of their time and resources on higher education – it is one of the biggest investments they make. It is also worrying for Sweden in general. Again: If we are to manage to cope with the tough competition that Sweden is facing, we must have very high quality in Swedish higher education. Liberals say the government is moving in the wrong direction quite quickly. I believe that in the long term it may prove a major mistake to do the three things that the government has done in the short year it has been in power. Some improvements have been made, Madam President, during the committee's discussion. I welcome that. I welcome the fact that the majority met the demands of the alliance parties in three cases, but it could have been even better. I would have liked to have seen a withdrawal and a retake made so that we could have a broad agreement on a robust evaluation system that both controls the higher education institutions' own quality assurance systems and has a clear external review. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 3.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1084	Madam President, I would like How is the quality of the Swedish university? It is an issue that has been heated in the media in recent times. Several different views have been expressed in the debate. At the end of the day, some have been more or less implying that Swedish higher education is in free fall, but is that true? The University Chancellor's Office's evaluation process between 2011 and 2014 shows that the majority of the programmes examined are of high or very high quality. Unfortunately, however, just over 25 per cent of the training courses lacked quality. From this, however, we can conclude that we generally have a high-quality higher education but that at the same time we still need to push further forward the issue of ensuring that all higher education is of high quality. Of course, all Swedish higher education should be of high quality. That is not something we can shake on, and that is what today's debate is all about. How can we make sure that Swedish higher education is of the highest quality? The quest for excellence in higher education includes several perspectives. I cannot, for reasons of time, highlight everyone, but overall I would like to mention two such important basic principles. Firstly, quality development is an approach. It must be in the spinal cord to constantly push questions about quality development. It is a principle that applies to all activities at all levels, whether it is about companies, organisations or Swedish universities. Secondly, a structured system of quality management is needed. Quality development cannot be handled on loose boliners. This means that we need to develop a quality evaluation system that is systematic. This will ensure that the quality is high in all training courses and that the system is a quality driver. Then it should also be said that it is important to have financial resources that make it possible for higher education to improve quality, even if more money is not the whole solution. Therefore, it is good that the government now allocates SEK 875 million during the current term of office for increased quality in humanities and social sciences, as well as teacher and teacher education. These efforts do not solve everything, but they are an important step towards improving the conditions for improving quality. The fact that we needed to develop a new quality evaluation system was also clear to the previous government, as we have heard from previous speakers. In April 2014, an investigator was appointed to propose the design of a new system. It is the proposal that is now on the table that is the result of that investigation and the referrals submitted by the referral bodies. An important reason was to design a new quality evaluation system that met the criticism that came when Sweden lost its membership of the European organisation ENQA that works to promote cooperation and exchange of experience on quality assurance of higher education between the countries of Bologna. ENQA's criticism included that our national quality assurance system did not take into account the internal quality work of higher education institutions and did not sufficiently contribute to the quality development of higher education institutions. In the Swedish debate, the criticism also came to be that not all education was subject to evaluation and that the system received too much emphasis on control. Another criticism was that the system too unilaterally focused on independent works. A further discussion focused on what was actually evaluated. Was it the quality of education that was evaluated or was it the quality of the students? All in all, it was clear to everyone that a new quality evaluation system was needed, and therefore the bourgeois government set up an investigation to review and design a new system. I believe that the proposal that is now on the table is well developing the previous system and introducing new elements that will make the quality evaluation more comprehensive. It is also a strength that such a large majority of the consultation bodies are behind the new proposal. In the previous quality evaluation system, there were two components – examination certificates and training evaluations. These elements remain in the new proposal. To these components are now added two new – reviews of higher education institutions' quality assurance work and thematic evaluations. It should be noted that the new proposal is a framework and that the Office of the University Chancellor is to be responsible for further developing and implementing the system based on the government's assessments, applicable laws and regulations and the principles of quality assurance developed within the framework of Bologna cooperation. This work will also be carried out in close consultation with the universities and with representatives of students and working life. This is important, because it has been pointed out in the debate that the government would take the students' views lightly. I mean that is not the case, and you can see that when you read the letter from the government. It is very important to bring in the students' perspectives. It is very important to include representatives from working life, and it was the case that there were major methodological problems in the previous system when it comes to alumni. You had to finish it after a while, because it didn't work out to get comments. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that this is an important issue. I would particularly like to comment on the reviews of the universities' own quality assurance work. It is a new and important component that is in line with ENQA's guidelines. I know that higher education institutions are already developing their quality assurance work. Not long ago, I met a representative of a major university who spoke about how their work on quality assurance has been revitalized by the new proposal that has been known for a while. For them, this means that they are now ensuring that all training courses will be evaluated, not just some. It is worth mentioning in view of the fact that the debate has brought to light that the proposal we are now discussing would be inadequate and inadequate. Now we have a system that evaluates all education and not only half of all education. We did not have that before, and I believe that we are now getting a more comprehensive system. Madam President, I would like The committee proposes three announcements to the Government in response to the motion requests: that the Government should commission the Office of the University Chancellor to report annually on the new quality assurance system; that the Government should evaluate and follow up the new quality assurance system three years after the introduction; and that the Government should review how the quality of education can be compared between different universities. It is good that the committee has had a constructive preparation of the government's proposal and that we agree to make these announcements which further improve the proposal for a new quality evaluation system. Finally, I would like to quote literally a sentence from reservation 3 submitted by the four bourgeois parties, in view of certain breast tones that have been made here from the speaker's chair: ..................................................... I take it you're actually on the boat but need to mark a little extra. We have listened to these things, that you should evaluate and follow closely that it works, and I am convinced that this will work pretty well. I take it that you still think that this proposal is a further development of the system we have had in the past. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1109	Madam President, I would like The Alliance's proposal, which has become the committee's proposal, sends three messages to the government. Thomas Strand read them out at the end of his speech, which is why I do not need to repeat them. There is something here that is important and essential. Thomas Strand says that you are prepared to support the proposal for the time being. That is the case. We feel responsible for these important issues. We feel a responsibility towards the sector, towards the higher education institutions, that they have long-term conditions to work on. What we are subject to is that there are follow-ups, that the government listens to what the committee says. We all know that an announcement is a message to the government, but the government is free to comply with the announcement. There are no guarantees. I have a question for Thomas Strand. To what extent will Thomas Strand work for and ensure that the government will add this proposal as a condition and ensure that the evaluations will take place? I have one more comment to make. Thomas Strand mentions the issue of good quality in education. 14% of education is of very high quality. But just as Thomas Strand said, a quarter of the educations are not of high quality. It is remarkable that Thomas Strand can then say that this is the same as that the courses are of good quality. 25% of education is not up to date.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1114	Madam President, I would like It is worrying that more than 25 per cent of the programmes examined were of poor quality. We cannot be satisfied with that. Nevertheless, I believe that, on the whole, a large majority of the training courses were considered to be of high quality or very high quality. I do not, therefore, want to condemn Swedish higher education. On a general level, there is a qualitatively good university education in Sweden. But it is clear that it is worrying when more than 25 percent of the training is of poor quality. It is an important issue for all parties in committee to follow and pursue the issue. Quality development is an approach. Every morning when you wake up you should repeat a mantra about how to work with the constant quality improvement. It is good and constructive that Betty Malmberg emphasises the responsibility that the Moderates want to take. I hope that the Centre Party and the Liberals will also say the same thing. I think you do. We need to help each other to raise the quality of higher education. It is important for students, for the sector, for business, for the public sector and for the general public that higher education is of high quality. It's a good thing we're running that tone together. I can assure you I'll be watching that the government is listening to our announcements. Parliament is the one who sets the foot and decides in this case and has set the tone to the government.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1118	Madam President, I would like Thank you for those words, Thomas Strand! I sincerely wish this to become a reality for all of us. It would be so essential and important for the future. Now that we are debating these important things, I would like to ask Thomas Strand a question concerning the SEK 300 million that have been removed from the quality funds. Thomas Strand mentions how important it is that everything is not money. I very much agree with that. The example I gave from the University of Borås makes it clear that this is actually about systematic work, perhaps not even the 60 percent increase that the alliance government made on the funds. But there will be a strange mishap when the government removes 300 million from quality-based resource allocation systems. I would like to have Thomas Strand's view that the government has done this – we do not need to go into the way it happened – and what effects it could have on the sector. The Government's letter states that the goal is for all students, women and men, to know that they are attending a high-quality education. This also means that we have the opportunity to compare training programmes. Does Thomas Strand disagree?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1123	Madam President, I would like The investigation set up by the bourgeois government is working on the issue of the 300 million for quality-based resources. It turned out that there was criticism of that very way of distributing money. It was a limited part that was examined, barely half of the training courses, and not all components of quality development. There were criticisms of the distribution. It is nevertheless a good thing that during our term of office we will contribute SEK 875 million to the humsam area and teacher and pre-school teacher training. It's important. Money is not everything, but this is an important signal to really work on quality issues. We know that these trainings need to be raised in particular in terms of quality in terms of teacher-led time and so on. The SEK 303 million are not used to work with quality development, and they have been withdrawn. That's right. Overall, there are 20 billion for the higher education sector. For you and me, it's a lot of money, but compared to 20 billion, it's not that much. I think you can handle that. Given what happened last autumn with the large influx of refugees to Sweden and how many people fled for their lives from the war in Syria, everyone had to help each other to find resources to meet these people on the run. That's why all the department had to help, including the Department of Education. That's an explanation. Then I don't have time to answer the second question.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1129	Madam President, I would like I want to start by thanking Thomas Strand. I think we can hook arms in terms of being on the government to implement our announcements to the government. I was going to ask you a question about what Thomas Strand said in his speech linked to the alumni. We receive a number of reports from various organisations, trade unions and work representatives about too little teacher-led time in education and poor working conditions. I mentioned in my speech Teknikföretagen and Saco Studentråd. Half of them are dissatisfied with the relationship to working life and the link between education and employment. Let me ask Thomas Strand a question linked to what he said about the alumni being important. What trade-offs did the Social Democrats make in order not to support the announcement that alumni should be included in the quality evaluation and to point out the importance of taking advantage of their knowledge and competences in education and training in order to strengthen quality so that the next generation of students can benefit from even better education?
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1132	Madam President, I would like I thank Fredrik Christensson for the questions. They're important. I can also give an answer to Betty Malmberg when it comes to comparing educations. I think it is extremely important for us to strengthen the working relationship in higher education. It is quite right that you say, Fredrik Christensson, that there has been criticism of this – that it should be better. I am the first to emphasise that this is a very important issue. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the government says in its letter that when it comes to continuing to develop the system from this framework, it is extremely important that we have students but also representatives from working life at work. I can't stress enough that it's really important. This alumni thing was a problem for the investigation. It was difficult to get answers from alumni in that system, so they had to let go of that part. I think that's a bit of a pity. We really need to think about how we can get the alumni' views. I would like to say to the Minister that there is something we need to think about how to solve. In particular, UKÄ will have the task of considering how to capture the views of students and representatives from working life so that this will be good for both comparing educations and getting a better connection to working life, to both the business community and the public sector. So this is an extremely important issue which I would like to endorse and hope that we can move forward together, because it must work better.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1137	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Strand, for your answer! I am glad that we share the view on the problem. The difference is that on Wednesday, when we vote on this report, we will vote in favour of an announcement linked to highlighting the importance of alumni. The Social Democrats will not do that. My question is once again what made you choose it, what the reason was. I am fully aware of the problems that have existed with the methodological problems, but also of the need that exists. There are many bodies that highlight the connection of students, student organisations and former students. At the turn of the line, Thomas Strand highlighted the students and working life but not the former students, who are at least as important in terms of ensuring that the education is of high quality in the longer term. Again, linked to this issue and knowing the uncertainty, we will nevertheless support the reservation in the vote on Wednesday and vote on it. The question is why the Social Democrats will not do that.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1140	Madam President, I would like I do not think I need to vote for the reservation referred to by Fredrik Christensson. I believe that those wordings are included in the government letter and also in the investigation. It is very clear from the point of view of the link with working life that it is important to have representatives of the working life and that it is also important to have representatives from the students with them. I am sure that the issue of alumni is also an important issue. There has been a discussion about how to get the alumni and get their answers because it has been difficult before. You have an idea in your reservation, which is included in the file. I think you should try all the ideas to get the alumni' views as well. When I talk to representatives of higher education institutions and you get into these questions, no one denies that it is important to capture the alumni. Sometimes it can be difficult to know how to do it, but it is an important question. I do not see any contradiction between us on this issue, no matter how we vote and what buttons we press. It's an important issue, and I want to keep working on it. We will be in contact with both the working world and the students, but we will also capture the alumni' views.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1144	Madam President, I would like We have tabled a specific opinion which we support and we support paragraphs 1, 3 and 6 of the Alliance's motion in motion 3310. Evaluation of our higher education programmes is, of course, vital in order to maintain and preferably increase the quality of these programmes. We think it is positive that a new proposal will provide UKÄ with a framework for developing a proposal for quality assurance and that this new proposal includes a process in which UKÄ examines the higher education institutions' own evaluations in accordance with ENQA's guidelines. Our view is that the new system should comply with these guidelines. It says in the report, Madam President, that the UKA will also review the possibilities of further increasing the range of sanctions against those education and training that do not meet the requirements. We think that is very good. We hope that the UKÄ will come up with some of these new proposals, because we think that is necessary. However, we must point out the strangeness of the fact that the old system of quality assurance has only been operational for four years and, moreover, has not been evaluated before a new system is launched. We've been into it before today. Madam President, I would like I have heard information that it was already known that the system introduced in 2010 did not meet the criteria for ENQA. Yet it was implemented, which seems strange if you now want to be part of that organisation and meet the requirements. Sweden is apparently one of the few Western EU countries that has not been accepted by ENQA. That, of course, is a disgrace in itself. Madam President, I would like ENQA requires that you essentially meet a number of criteria. I would say that at present there are two criteria we do not meet. The first is paragraph 1, external periodic evaluation of the programmes, which looks at the quality and effectiveness evaluation of higher education institutions themselves according to European guidelines. We have not fulfilled that. The second is paragraph 3, sufficient financial and human resources to carry out external controls. We do not believe that this has been fulfilled either. This should, of course, be addressed. So it is not only on paragraph 1 that we miss the case, but also on paragraph 3, well to note, as there is nothing in the letter from the government. Hence our particular opinion. It is clear from the government's letter, Madam President, that research training has not been evaluated because of a lack of resources. It is equally clear in ENQA's list of requirements that sufficient resources must be allocated for the evaluation to be carried out in a systematic and efficient manner. We believe that the government should have paid more attention to this, and we hope that it will be dealt with in future. The Government's ambition is that all state-funded educations, not just those leading up to a degree, should be evaluated. We think it goes without saying that this should be the case. We hope that this will also be the case in practice, not just in theory. The Government proposes in its mission to UKÄ that we move to a two-point scale instead of the current three-point scale. It's causing us a bit of a headache. It's hard for us here and now to decide what's best. We note that the consultation bodies have not, in any case, reached the ceiling for the proposal. In this way, we will allow the UKÄ to investigate this further. At present, we are not opposed to it, as the consultation bodies have not opposed it. Madam President, I would like We do not think that the conditions for comparing different educations are adequately met in the Government's proposal. Such comparisons not only serve as consumer guidance but also create healthy competition between different higher education institutions, something we think is only of benefit. We do not think that the possible comparison that will be made through the so-called thematic evaluations is sufficient. But it is of course very difficult to know in theory. Madam President, I would like In conclusion and for the future, I will say a few final words. Lying proposals contain good things that we support. On the other hand, the current proposal is very unclear as regards sufficient resource allocation for evaluation. This is one of the points where we currently do not meet ENQA's requirements. We agree with the Alliance that the system should be evaluated, something that apparently did not happen to the old system once. This is complicated matter, and it is impossible to predict how a system works in all parts when theory meets reality. There is nothing strange or abnormal about having to adjust a system to sharp tests. We also think that annual reports on the functioning of the new system are reasonable. However, we must be careful not only to introduce waste of resources into the system. Here we can reach the limit of this. We can, of course, come to a point where the evaluation system itself consumes unreasonably much of the resources to go to the training itself. We also want to raise a warning flag for that. Finally, Madam President, as far as the quality of our higher education is concerned in general, we believe that too much focus has been on quantity thinking rather than quality thinking. The current system of financing rewards quantity rather than quality far too much, which this quality assurance system will not be able to address. It's perfectly clear. We will come back with proposals on this issue, but it goes a little beyond the scope of this letter.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1163	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal. We are going to debate in this House tonight a new quality evaluation system for higher education. If higher education in Sweden is to measure up and be able to compete with the outside world, it must be of high quality. In order to ensure quality, it is important to have a robust quality assurance system that is effective. In recent years, we have worked for higher education on the basis of a so-called quality assurance system that has been assembled at the Ministry of Education, against the will of expertise. The system has been flawed and has therefore been subject to much and severe criticism. Among other things, the system led the European cooperation organisation ENQA a few years ago to expel Sweden from the organisation. According to ENQA, the quality assurance system did not take into account the internal quality work of higher education institutions, and it did not contribute sufficiently to the quality development of higher education institutions. With this in mind, I am pleased to note that we will soon have a new and effective quality assurance system for higher education. I also note that the alliance parties are broadly satisfied with the system in the report, although there are some views on timing, the scope of evaluations, and more. Madam President, I would like The new quality assurance system should focus on both increasing quality and controlling the results, and it consists of four parts. Two are the same as before: examination certificates and educational evaluations. We are also expanding with review of higher education institutions' quality work and with another variable thematic evaluation. It is important to do this. While the old system had a one-sided focus on control, the new system emphasises both quality work and monitoring of study results. With this system, we can increase the quality of education at Swedish higher education institutions, so that these contribute even more to increasing knowledge and innovation. The system can also contribute to better guidance for the management and management of the higher education sector in terms of where strengths and shortcomings exist so that Sweden could stand stronger as a knowledge nation in the future. Finally, I will read from an email I received today from a student representative: The new proposal for quality assurance systems has the support of the Swedish student movement. It's very nice to hear this. I continue to read from the email: To assess quality with the previous system is about as impossible as to drive a car with only the rear-view mirror. This means that the system had many shortcomings. The rear-view mirror is important, but you cannot drive with just the rear-view mirror, but you have to look forward too. That will be the closing words of my speech.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1171	Madam President, I would like I requested a reply because I'm a little upset by Jabar Amin's description of the previous evaluation system. We are now talking about universities and colleges and the importance of evaluations, evidence and research. Jabar Amin is well aware and well acquainted with this. At the same time, we in the Education Committee themselves have been responsible for a major evaluation in which researchers from Denmark have been there to see how this system, which was introduced in 2011, has worked. The conclusions that come from it are not at all consistent with the picture that Jabar Amin gives. I mentioned this in my speech. Similarly, the University Chancellor's Office has evaluated the system and found that it was actually a quality driver. Jabar Amin liter now. I don't know what he's thinking. However, I think it is important that we in this House can stick to the reality as it actually looks. Of course, there have been comments on the system, but Jabar Amin is ralliing when he says it was nicked up at the Ministry of Education, against the will of the expertise. He actually gets to stand up because there was substance in the system and that it has led to increased quality. This has also meant that a quarter of the programmes evaluated have actually failed to measure up. Thankfully, the students who are now going to study on those lines, because all of a sudden they are now getting a chance at a relevant education.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1175	Madam President, I would like A system that leads to Sweden being thrown out of the European quality assurance organisation for the first time is not only bad. The right word is fadäs! Such a thing has never happened before. It was so bad that we did not sit among the other nations. And here are the Moderates saying that you can have some views on the system. What kind of comments? It was so bad that Europe said that Sweden should not be there. The expert criticized the government loudly. There was an investigation that formed the basis of the system, but the entire investigation was put aside, and then politicians at the Ministry of Education were carveing together a system that you yourselves soon realized was not up to the mark. That is why new directives were introduced, which led to this. It is this letter, which deals with a new quality assurance system. The fact that we should only have views on a system that causes the country to be thrown out of the European Community because we are not up to the mark is very surprising. I was hoping you had more insight into the major flaws of the old system. That is certainly why you agree to the new system. You don't want to go back to the old. You know what it led to. This is a system that is enriching.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1180	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to take part of Jabar Amin's line. It is true that ENQA excluded Sweden as a member. We're in observation, but we're not members. But it was actually that we didn't know this. There were two reasons why this was happening. The former Swedish National Agency for Higher Education was too close to the government – that was a reason. Another reason was that they did not think that the system that we had built up to look more at the focus on results was consistent with their principles. That is exactly what I have also explained in my speech – Mr Amin knows if he was listening. We saw that for the students' sake and for alumni' sake, it was important that they receive recognition for the education they have attended. It was therefore important to review the system and the evaluation. But it is also important that we learn from it now. The opposition rejected the previous system. However, when evaluations from the University Chancellor's Office and from the Parliament's Education Committee show that that system actually worked, it is important that we also make such evaluations in the next system, which we will decide on. When it comes to doing so, the government was not on board, but it is thanks to the Alliance that it is now going to happen. I still sincerely hope that this will happen. I will also say something short about control and independent work. Read the letter from the government! Actually, it's a pretty big focus on it. The government says that independent works will play a major role. As far as that criticism is concerned, rice has been tied to its own back.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1185	Madam President, I would like It is nice to hear Betty Malmberg admit that we were excluded from the European Community for quality assurance. You don't exclude someone because they're small flaws, but it's exactly what I said. It was home-made at the department. It was part of ENQA's criticism. We've had that criticism for a long time. It didn't hold the quality. That's what we said before ENQA did. ENQA stated the same thing. It did not contribute to the development of other higher education institutions – it is exactly the same. Criticism of the system has been widespread. The independent works are important. But you must not have a one-sided focus, as you had before. One can have it as an important aspect, and that is what we have in this work. But we shouldn't have a one-sided focus. The previous government did not listen, but turned a deaf ear. It did not listen to criticism and not when others had good suggestions. Unlike the previous government, we have actually done so in committee. We now agree in committee on many pieces. It has helped to develop this system. I am proud that we are not making the same mistakes as the previous government. As soon as the opponent came up with suggestions, they said: no, no, no. We are open to good and constructive proposals. I hope that this system will now become a system that can develop the quality of higher education.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1189	Madam President, I would like I had some thoughts when I listened to Jabar Amin. Jabar Amin said that it is the first time in world history that Sweden is being thrown out of ENQA. It almost sounded like a system that has existed since Machiavelli walked the earth. But the truth is that it was introduced in the mid-2000s. Sweden became a member in 2006 and was a member for four five years, I think, before it was noticed that our system was not fully compatible with what was required. Jabar Amin made a parable of driving a car and looking in the rearview mirror. But the more relevant illustration is: Should you have a car inspection, or should you be satisfied that the driver himself reviews his car? Are we to be satisfied that the car inspection is reviewing my ability to examine my own car? Or should we have an external audit, as we actually have in the form of a car inspection? I have a question for Jabar Amin. It's really quite simple. Does Jabar Amin consider that the new system put forward by the government will mean that those who in the future are interested in attending a Master's degree in Business Administration or a Master's degree in Swedish higher education will be able to compare the quality of various higher education institutions' programmes? There are quite large courses in Swedish college.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1193	Madam President, I would like It's amazing to hear you want to ignore this. As far as I know, this is the first time that Sweden has been excluded from a European organisation at all. It is not something to ignore, even if it was 2006. We warned the government already in 2009 and 2010 when this was debated in the Riksdag. It was done from several parties. This system wasn't up to speed. Now we want to ignore this and say: Yes, it was 2006. We weren't there for many years. The problem isn't that. The problem is that we launched a system that was incomplete and did not measure up. It was done against better judgment. Politicians at the department thought they knew better than the expertise. Now I'm going to move on to what this system will lead to. I am convinced– it is certainly also you, because the Alliance agrees that it is a new system and it wants to improve here and there – that the quality of higher education will be much better with a better system, a new system, such as what we are now presenting. What this can lead to training for education will be seen in the forthcoming evaluations. But in general it will develop the quality work of higher education institutions. It's important.
i-d1ba7e0ba121a65c-1197	Madam President, I would like I won't ignore it. I only note that Sweden joined in 2006. In 2011, ENQA discovered shortcomings. Then the then government set up an investigation to deal with those shortcomings. That's what we're dealing with now. But I had a question that Jabar Amin didn't answer. It's pretty simple. Will those who in the future are interested in starting an economics education, engineering education and many other degree programmes be able to compare the quality of education in various Swedish higher education institutions? Will the new system be able to provide this information to future students? Can one say that an education at one university is such and so compared to the same education at another university? Can Jabar Amin answer that question?
i-NZRrZnEvMwN7ZKD7dbWsjA	Madam President, I would like Regarding the quality of higher education: we shall not have A, B, C, and D, teams. Quality should be good. We will guarantee our future and current students that higher education in Sweden is up to date. We do so with this new system. We shouldn't be different for different groups. All universities and all higher education institutions must have a single system and quality work as the appropriate measure. It's important. I can see you're still fighting. Despite warnings, you launched a system that led to our exclusion from a European association. I think you should admit the errors and say: We were wrong, our mistakes led to this, and now we should take a new hold. To say all the time Yes, there were small flaws, and you could have viewpoints are not sustainable. I am pleased now that in this report we broadly agree that this system is better. That is why we shall vote in favour of this system. It will guarantee the quality of higher education in Sweden, and I am pleased about that.
