i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-2	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether the government will put forward proposals for a commission ban on the brokering of funds and how the consequences of similar proposals will affect competition in the Swedish fund market. Questions about commissions and other third party compensations are included in the legislative project under way to implement the MiFID II Directive in Swedish law. The aim of the rules is to strengthen consumer protection and remove conflicts of interest that risk leading to securities institutions providing advice that is not in the customer's interest. It is also important to safeguard competition on the Swedish financial market, so that consumers and other investors can choose from a wide range of financial products and suppliers. In response to the first two questions, I can say that I have recently announced that the Government does not intend, in connection with the implementation in Swedish law of MiFID II, to make proposals for such a far-reaching commission ban as the 2013 securities market investigation has proposed. With regard to the last two issues, it can be said that savings banks are an important part of a geographically distributed distribution network and that it is therefore important to have a balanced starting point in the regulatory framework we are now developing. As Fredrik Schulte and the Swedish Competition Authority point out, reduced competition in the fund market is a possible effect of a far-reaching prohibition on commissions. That is one of the reasons why we do not intend to impose such a ban on commissions. The implementation of MiFID II is part of the efforts to strengthen consumer protection. The results of the new rules and the continued self-regulation of the industry will need to be evaluated in order to determine whether the problems of conflicts of interest persist even after the Directive has been implemented and the new rules have begun to apply. If, despite the new regulatory framework, problems persist in the market for advice on financial instruments in Sweden, further legislative measures should be considered. The issues are currently being addressed within the Government Office. The intention is for the Government to be able to make a decision on a legislative referral in late autumn 2016. It is still too early to be able to say something more about the drafting of future legislative proposals, and I am therefore referring to future legislative referrals and proposals.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-7	Mr President, I would like to When I wrote interpellation, the government had not given more concrete information about how to land on these issues. Now they've done it. I think the input values presented by Per Bolund are good. I am pleased with the answers and do not think there is a reason for further debate, but I must thank you very much for your answer and hope that the government will continue to make such good proposals.
i-3xYhNR9dpp8y6jSLjmodCV	Mr President, I would like to Penilla Gunther has asked me if I can explain what is meant by the wording Furthermore, Penilla Gunther has asked whether these funds are available to be used and, if so, to what or to whom. The statement that SEK 48 million of allocated funds are paid out only after a decision by the Government means that this share of the funds on the current grant until further notice is not made available to Kammarkollegiet for payments to Almi Företagspartner AB. The reason for the government's position not to make available the allocated funds until further notice was that Sweden's reception of refugees in autumn 2015 increased in a way that could not be foreseen in the preparation of the 2016 budget proposal. This risked exceeding the agreed level of expenditure ceiling. In the 2016 Spring Change Budget (prop. 2015/ 16:99), the government has proposed a reduction of a number of appropriations to contribute to the financing of appropriations that are proposed to increase in the same bill. The current appropriation is one of these. At the initiative of the Government, the Swedish Parliament has previously increased funding 1:22 Grants for business development and innovation, which finance Almi Företagspartner AB's operations. Although the appropriation in the spring amendment budget is proposed to decrease by SEK 48 million, the allocation for this year is higher than the 2015 allocation. At the same time, the government is implementing a number of measures to promote integration of new arrivals. For example, the government has proposed a fast track for entrepreneurs who aim to enable newcomers with experience of entrepreneurship to quickly start companies in Sweden, a growth-support for individual entrepreneurs who make their first employment and 10 billion extra annually to the municipal sector, with the aim of facilitating long-term planning and more employment in welfare. These are examples of efforts that shorten the path to work and employment and contribute to effective integration.
i-PGEgfVk5MNpxuiWtUk9RN5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As we know – and as the Government has been asked about before – many have experienced that the resources for several organisations that work with business advice in different ways have been reduced in a rather substandard way. They received late news, the week before Christmas and several weeks after Christmas, when the financial year 2016 had already begun. There is dissatisfaction in these ranks over how this has been handled. To see then that there are 48 million in any way reserved for only Almi does not make the discontent any less, but rather it becomes more incomprehensible. There is something quite difficult to explain. While they say that they want to invest resources to get more new arrivals into work and be able to start their own businesses – as I write in the interpellation, many have a background from other countries as self-employed – and in the face of a fast track, it actually only gives a few hundred thousand SEK to these organisations, which have lost millions. It will be a rather inexplicable soup of measures that I really think were meant to be good. I believe in the good intentions of the Minister. But it's gone wrong. Then the explanation in the interpellation response is not very well received, I would think. I myself feel that if there are 48 million in this reserved union in the budget to only one organisation, which is also the largest and also completely state-owned, then the injustice becomes even greater. Business advice has for many years been supported by the state and other public levels – municipalities, regions and county councils – especially to women, people with immigrant backgrounds or specific forms of enterprise, such as cooperative activities. If they get less resources, it is clear that it will continue to be felt if we talk about getting more people into work, including new arrivals. That is because we have different preferences. My own experience as a business advisor is that you meet people with many different backgrounds and that you can't fit everyone. The organisation that works across the country, the New Entrepreneur Centre or Svenska Jobs and S ociety, has operations in each municipality in Sweden. I think that they really have a particularly worthwhile structure for business advice along with the other organisations. You should know that they work together. Most have found each other at local and regional level over the past few years and want to work and work together to make the impact all the greater with more companies. The question then remains as to how you thought now when it comes to getting more people to work, whether you want to target new arrivals or already immigrant neo-Swedishs in particular.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-21	Mr President, I would like to I thank Penilla Gunther for giving me the opportunity to perhaps sort some things out. The reserved funds of SEK 48 million mean that the appropriations for A l mi will be reduced by SEK 48 million. As Almi does not finance the organisations that the interpeller asks about, there is no correlation between these issues. From the point of view of the interpellier, it must be better that we make this saving on Almi, who has more money this year than last year despite these withdrawals, precisely so that it does not hit other activities harder. That is why I think that this was a wise withdrawal to do in a situation where expenditure was pulling away in a way that I think neither Penilla Gunther nor my own party had foreseen in the budget work last time. That is how we deal with the budget when events happen that we have not anticipated. The government was forced to take quite strong measures to bring down the number of asylum seekers to Sweden and thus the cost explosion that would otherwise have occurred. Now we've done it. This means that a number of appropriations have been deducted and that the proposed investments could instead be made in the spring amending budget. Investing in a fast track for entrepreneurship for new arrivals is one of them, and SEK 18 million is reserved for it to expand that business. It goes through the Swedish Agency for Growth, and the Swedish Agency for Growth has not yet allocated this money. There are many of the organisations that are still up for discussion here that also have an interest in participating in this money to create this fast track for entrepreneurs who have come to Sweden. There is therefore no correlation between these two issues. We have made a reduction in the funds allocated to Almi. We thought that this was where we could make cuts without it having such a big impact otherwise, because Almi has still received increased funding. Why has the government nevertheless chosen to prioritise Almi over time and increased the funding for Almi? This is because we see that there is a great need not least for Almis's loan business, which has increased by approximately SEK 1 billion in 2015. It is a very important part of what I describe as a policy for companies not only to be created but also to be able to grow, invest and take out loans. We know that commercial banks have withdrawn some from small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why Almis lending activities and the lending activities of the Norrland Fund are particularly important. That is why, over time, we have also invested in Almi in order to expand that business. Almi uses a part for advisory activities. With these reductions, we have not reduced Almis's advisory activities in this situation, but rather actually strengthened it in a number of areas, not least in different languages and other areas of counselling in urban areas that were lagging behind. The fact that we have cut funding for Almi was the result of a unique situation that led to the costs being deducted. This prevented us from making cuts in other areas, such as further reductions at the Swedish Agency for Growth, which is also an organisation that received slightly reduced funding. But it is not possible to mix reductions at Almi with reductions at Tillväxtverket. I think that will be even more confusing in this discussion. I fully share Penilla Gunther's commitment to ensuring that the skills and entrepreneurship that have come to Sweden are used. This is why Sweden invests in the fast track, for example, but also expands its advisory activities in more languages.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-31	Mr President, I would like to Of course, Almi has received reduced funding. The question is that they have a small sidetrack that, if the government were to decide a, could still have increased resources – right? I still see it that way. The Government does not consider these issues to be related, as I do. These organisations work partly with Almi in the same market, if I may put it that way. Therefore, these issues become very topical for them at the level they work. Like I said, you meet each other. You interact as best you can and try to send customers, i.e. people you give advice, to each other. It may be discovered that an organization is better at economic associations or better at dealing with women, immigrants or other groups to whom it is addressed. That is why this is an important issue. It is about what image you want to give from both the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and how you look at these organisations. I would like to remind the Government that in 2013 there was already a review, a review, of all operating grants and grants to advisory organisations. At that time, this council of actors was created with these very organisations. The Swedish Inventors Association is a very good example of an association that has received reduced funding and can not afford to do anything other than just be present where you have projects and can get revenue. If we want to promote innovation in this country – this word is used in time and out of time, I would say – it is also about having inventors who from the beginning have an idea that can also be developed. This type of association and advisory organisations is therefore very important in order to bring these people forward. This is, overall, a very important issue for Sweden. During this spring I have run a series on the Swedish innovation system with four seminars. I have had an enormous commitment to these issues, from the first idea of an inventor and through the whole process of the innovation system. It is clear that both Almi and all the others play a very important role. This is not least about contacts. If we are talking about new arrivals, we know that many jobs and contacts are managed through these organisations, so that these people can get a job at all or be able to start a business. No matter how we turn and twist this, all of these together get much stronger. But then it is all the more incomprehensible that an organisation like the whole of Sweden should live gets almost unlimited funding – it was perhaps to take in, but they have received a very large grant – without having as a special mission to actually create or develop companies.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-40	Mr President, I would like to I thank the interpellant for a further important discussion. We agree that business advice is important, not least in the phases when companies themselves feel that they do not have competence. It is often in early phases. But it can also be when they are going to make investment decisions or go out to international markets and take a leap towards something that they have not previously worked with. Then these advisory activities can play a crucial role in enabling companies to make the right decisions and know what they are getting involved in. It's important business. What I have tried to sort out in this interpellation debate is that a saving of SEK 48 million on Almi can hardly be taken into account because these organisations have some problems. Had we not made this saving of SEK 48 million, there would have been a risk that this saving would have ended up somewhere else. In fact, we must respect the spending ceilings that exist for the state budget. I believe that both the Christian Democrats and the Government are firmly committed to complying with the budgetary rules that exist in Sweden. That is why we had to make a number of savings. But we thought it was smart to make the savings on Almi because Almi actually saw that they had a growing business and could refrain from this increase but still retain important business. In fact, we thought that this would mean a reduction in business advice. We saw a risk that this reduced funding for Almi would lead to that. We now see that, thanks to last year's results and some sensible efforts this year, it has managed to keep business advice within Almi at the same level. The advisory activities have also been strengthened with more business advisors and more languages. In addition, the Entrepreneurship School, a web-based education available, has been translated into English, Arabic and Persian to broaden the range of business advice. In addition, micro-loans have been launched during the spring, which is one of the efforts that many have asked for. For an entrepreneur who has come to Sweden and has not been here for so long, it may be a smaller loan that is required for the company and business development to get started, and then microloans have been one of those things that have been asked for. Almi managed to launch such a programme in the spring, and we hope that it will help to facilitate funding for people with foreign backgrounds. We also chose to launch the fast track for entrepreneurs to speed up. It is true that the decisions on which organisations will be considered are not taken. It is the Swedish Agency for Growth that manages it and will handle it. This applies to SEK 18 million, so it is quite a lot of money that will now be used to faster get people with entrepreneurial background to become entrepreneurs in Sweden. I am absolutely sure that several of the organisations mentioned will raise their hands and say that they want to participate in the operations of the Swedish Agency for Growth. If that is the case, I welcome it. For a number of years – since 2007, I believe – the government has left it to the Swedish Agency for Growth to make an assessment of the type of operating grant the various organisations will receive. So it is no longer a government decision. This was the case in the time of the bourgeois government, and this is still the case under this government.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-47	Mr President, I would like to I feel that the microloans Almi has had for a while have improved. I am one of those who have criticised this, because micro-loans are supposed to be micro-loans. Microloans do not mean, for me, a level of 150 000, but a much lower level. We should be aware – and the Government knows this – that there is also something called microphones in Sweden. There are credit guarantee associations which have also not been properly supported in the way they should. This really applies to activities that no one else wants to support, to be honest. The Bank does not consider that there is sufficient guarantee that the money will be returned. This is also in line with what both Minister Damberg and Ylva Johansson have invested in, namely work integration social enterprises. They are often in need of these very micro-loans, for they are people with such a background that they have no resources. Nor have they had a job for a long time, which means that they do not have a security in the bank. There must also be opportunities for them to procure a sensible cash register or something else. There are so many small things in activities for really small ASFs that would improve this. In my last speech, however, I would like to say to the Government that, as far as any company is concerned, I would appreciate it if, on the basis of the review carried out three years ago, one were to step up and review the activities of the advisory organisations that are to receive funding and how it is to be distributed. For today it is not fair.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-51	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Penilla Gunther for her commitment and knowledge of the issues. I think it is important to continue to push the questions how we get more and growing companies in Sweden and how we get different groups to actually be treated equally when they try and want to run companies in Sweden. We have had a development where, among other things, gender equality is an aspect and where groups that have come to Sweden have also had a little more difficulty getting into the Swedish systems. This is something we have been working on for a number of years, and not least the Swedish Agency for Growth has done an analysis of what this has really looked like over the years. How do we ensure that subsidies are given on equal terms for all and benefit everyone? On the other hand, I am probably not prepared in this interpellation debate to upset some of the principles that have been in force since 2007 that it is the Swedish Agency for Growth that is responsible for the operating grant between the various organisations. I think it is basically a good order that it is not only the government that makes political decisions on this, but that authorities that work on these issues also make an assessment of which organisations are most effective and how to support them in a long-term wise way.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-55	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me why the review of Arbetsförmedlingen is delayed despite announcements from the Riksdag and despite my statement that a review will take place. As I have replied before, the Government intends to set up a new investigation before the summer of 2016. The Government shares the view that the Public Employment Service needs to be developed in order to better contribute to a well-functioning labour market and has taken several measures. The Public Employment Service has also started a necessary renewal work. In March 2015, the Government decided to commission Statskontoret to analyse and submit proposals regarding the development of the internal management, governance and follow-up of Arbetsförmedlingen. Statskontoret's re-reporting confirms that many previous shortcomings within the Public Employment Service are about to be rectified, although Statskontoret, like the Public Employment Service, notes that much development work remains. Statskontoret also believes that the development work within Arbetsförmedlingen has a relevant focus, including in terms of reduced detail management and increased delegation of responsibility. The Government is continuously monitoring the development of the agency. At the same time, the Government considers that the government's commitment and the design of the Employment Service's mandate need to be further analysed in order to meet the challenges of the future labour market. Preparation of directives and the design of the commission of the investigation are ongoing within the Government Office.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-61	Mr President, I would like to It's time to deliver the investigation into the future employment agency. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson has promised that an investigation will be launched. Today we are debating this once again. It's simply because the investigation is not in place, and it's almost summer. One of the main challenges of labour market policy is to have a well-functioning employment service. Today it is lacking in efficiency, control and achievement of its objectives. There are still far too few jobs for all the money that we in the Alliance and Ylva Johansson, who are now responsible, have pushed into the agency. Survey after examination shows that many of those working at Arbetsförmedlingen feel that they do not have time for their work tasks. At the same time, other studies show that Arbetsförmedlingen ends up in jumbo place when it comes to the authority's trust. For those of you who have jumped in and started to follow this debate now, it may be appropriate to mention that the previous alliance government set up an inquiry into the Employment Service. It would make the largest review in 20 years. However, the investigation came to an abrupt end when the new government announced its completion. It was concluded without giving new guidelines or a plan for when a review would start again, which we agree on today, is needed. The Government Declaration also promised that the Employment Service would be fundamentally reformed, so it requires the investigation to be in place. Ylva Johansson! It sounds laudable, and has done so for years, that the investigation should be in place. As late as last year in Almedalen, you promised it would be in place. That was not the case. Now you have promised it will happen before the summer. Summer's here. Where's the investigation? What do the directives look like, and who will become an investigator?
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-66	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the Employment Service and the role of labour market policy as a whole need a broader review, and that is the focus of the directives that will soon be presented. Issues relating to the staff of Arbetsförmedlingen – their work environment, workload, internal efficiency and governance – are issues that cannot wait for an investigation, but these are things that we work with here and now. This work has been reviewed by Statskontoret, and the review shows that Arbetsförmedlingen is on the right track in that work. But there is a need for a broader review, and I think that Jenny Petersson and I agree that that is the intention. As Jenny Petersson says, summer is basically here. Before Jenny Petersson goes on vacation, I promise that I will deliver directives and investigators.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-69	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We agree that there is a need for a review, and we can see that in the rear-view mirror. The Arbetsförmedlingen has had a tough spring. The procurement of labour market training has not worked as we or, hopefully, the Minister wants. There have been reports of websites for several million SEK. Companies do not use Arbetsförmedlingen. We can see in measurements that companies use the Public Employment Service in recruitment less and less year by year. As I mentioned in my previous post, trust in Arbetsförmedlingen is at the bottom of the Swedish people. According to a recent study, only 13% have confidence in the Authority. We agree that this is not the way we can have it. On several occasions, both in writing and orally in this House, I have asked for a review of the Employment Service and its entire system. I now take Ylva Johansson at the word that the investigation will be set up before the summer. Otherwise, we will meet again in the Chamber or in other contexts.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-74	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that this is a low level of confidence in the Employment Service. Employers feel that it has a limited benefit, and many do not even turn to Arbetsförmedlingen. I consider it to be very serious. This is an important reason to review both the functioning of the Employment Service and labour market policy and its role in the Swedish labour market. Mr President, I would like to We are a long way from deciding on directives and investigators.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-76	Mr President, I would like to It sounds commendable that it will happen before the summer. I can only point out to all of you who are watching the debate that there have been two announcements calling on the Government to take up this review. The majority of Parliament expects this. Now we'll see if it happens before summer 2016. Then I would just like to add something that is positive, namely that Ylva Johansson has been in the UK and Australia, among others, who have made reforms in this area, and studied what it looks like there. I very much hope that this will be taken with us into work, so that we can have reform and an employment agency for the future in place.
i-ef6eb3a62bc97ab9-79	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that it is important that we learn from other countries. Although there are differences, there is almost always something important that we can learn from other countries that are sometimes ahead of us. Mr President, I would like to I wish Jenny Petersson a nice summer and that she will be able to go on summer holidays calm after I have delivered directives and investigators.
