i-b8fca2160165a859-5	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Sweden's membership of the EU and access to the European market is an important prerequisite for our companies, our Swedish jobs and our welfare. Membership, of course, also requires us to comply with the common rules of the game and implement the EU directives into our own legislation. That's where we're in complete agreement. The problem with today's government proposal for amendments aimed at aligning tax exemptions in the field of fuel taxation with EU state aid rules is that they have absolutely no impact assessments. The proposal may seem technical, but it may have far-reaching consequences for the companies concerned. The proposed amendments are rules on the collection of information from and publication of the companies receiving State aid and restrictions on aid to firms in difficulty or the recovery of unlawful State aid. What is behind this? Mr President, I would like to How will these proposals affect individual companies and their competitiveness? How will the enhanced information requirement affect the administrative burden on businesses? Nor is there any concern on the part of the government about the disclosure of information about the companies seeking state aid? The bulk of the proposal is about limiting access to State aid to firms in financial difficulty. Which companies fall within the definition and how it affects companies that are denied financial support on this basis is unclear. Clear and predictable rules are crucial for competitiveness. The bill and the government risk creating uncertainty regarding the start-up of operations and uncertainty over future investment decisions. Another concern about this case is that the government has chosen the strictest definition of firms in difficulty. What we are calling for here is a global analysis. The EU's internal market is intended to level out competition differences and offer a level playing field for all. This only works if the implementation of the various EU directives is carried out in a similar way. In today's bill, the government chooses to make a little extra effort to be sure that Swedish companies do not get a competitive advantage in any case. This is very unfortunate and risks distorting Swedish competitiveness to our disadvantage. Mr President, I would like to On the basis of this reasoning, we Moderates and the Alliance can only land in one position: The government must produce a thorough impact assessment from an entrepreneurial perspective. Sweden cannot afford to lose competitiveness. Here we have a proposal which risks leading to precisely that. The Red Green Government owes it to Swedish companies, jobs and ultimately our welfare to actually find out if and how competitiveness is affected before they change Swedish law.
i-b8fca2160165a859-15	Mr President, I would like to The issue of state aid in the field of fuel taxation is an issue that concerns, among other things, important conditions for Swedish agriculture. With a number of ill-considered and de facto legislative proposals for the implementation of certain parts of the EU directives regulating Member States' state aid in favour of certain fuels, the government creates more problems than it solves. The background to this is different views on biofuels in Sweden compared to the rest of the EU. I'll make a brief summary of the background. The government's short-term thinking and lack of understanding of the problems of enterprises, not least agricultural enterprises, are another part of the reason for this. In Sweden, the debate on biofuels has been relatively one-sided, and our powers act as if we should use as much biofuels as possible, regardless of the mode of production. Therefore, in Sweden we subsidise biofuels in the order of SEK 6– 8 billion per year. However, another debate is taking place in the rest of the EU. It calls into question biofuels from a sustainability perspective in many contexts, as some biofuels can lead to increased CO2 emissions. This has to do, for example, with so-called ILUC factors, indirect land use change, which in the short term increases CO2 emissions. This is the reason why the EU is now putting pressure on Swedish companies that are considered to receive state aid, such as agricultural companies, not to consume non-sustainable biofuels. There is a very strange situation here, where Sweden, as a state massively and without control, encourages the consumption of all kinds of biofuels, while the EU, through certification requirements, forces companies to choose the right type of biofuels. The expression one hand does not know what the other does fits very well in this context. So to move on to the bill itself, the proposals there risk hitting very unfortunately against the already hard-tested farms, which will suffer from more bureaucracy and the risk of unwarranted repayments of subsidies which are subsequently defined as illegal. The problems will also affect the companies supplying biofuels. It will be they who will decide whether their customers have the right to receive the state aid. These suppliers may be liable for large amounts if it is subsequently found that their assessment of customers was incorrect. This law will therefore create more bureaucracy and a legal uncertainty for all the companies affected by the errors that will result. According to the bill, it is the Swedish Tax Agency that will provide information about the financial position of final customers. However, Mr President, the Swedish Tax Agency believes that this is not within their area of competence and that there must therefore be substantial investment in new staff, but also in the development of methods and skills. Such investments take time and cost a great deal of resources, which do not exist today. The problem with bringing the law into force on 1 July 2016 is therefore that this necessary condition will not be in place when the law comes into force. Even in the fantasy world of the most dreamy Social-Democrat or environmental party, it will not be possible to do so. Another problem in this proposal is the risks associated with the reporting of sales information to be made available to suppliers and to be made public via the internet. There is also a lack of an assessment of the consequences of the proposals put forward. This may involve disclosure of trade secrets, with severe consequences. That the government doesn't understand the problem is obvious. It is therefore even more serious to refrain from the necessary impact assessment in this paragraph. Another problem complex in the bill is that it has not been possible to find clear definitions to determine whether a company is in financial difficulty or not. Not least the time aspect and the definition of difficulty are major issues. That is precisely the decision that is necessary in order to establish whether or not state aid is to be granted in the case of the purchase of biofuels. This problem is particularly interesting as it may result in individual companies, not infrequently farmers, being severely affected by late recovery claims for state aid received and received in good faith. One such the situation can force individual companies to go bankrupt, only because of careless and negligent legislation. That is not acceptable, Mr President. The government must do its homework and return to Parliament with a proposal that does not contain such sensationally ill-designed rules. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats point in our motion to these problems and to how we believe they should be resolved. As we have to comply with the EU directive, which forms the basis of the legislative proposal, there is a limited amount of solutions to the problems. In order to overcome the shortcomings of the bill, a number of measures must be taken. Firstly, we must create time to correct the serious shortcomings of the proposed proposal. We can do this by postponing the entry into force of the agreement for six months, until 1 January 2017. The Social Democrats have criticised this. They claim that this would have serious consequences for individual companies. That's not true. By presenting the extended implementation period together with the measures that need to be implemented in order to have legal certainty in Swedish law, there will be no problems for the Swedish community. It is not uncommon in the EU for such things to happen. Secondly, the shortcomings in the nomenclature and definitions of legislative proposals must be resolved. We cannot have laws where the text of the law does not tell us what situations are meant and where the responsibility for interpreting is placed with individual companies rather than with public authorities. Thirdly, the Swedish Tax Agency must have time to build up the human and functional resources needed to provide the necessary support to the companies in question so that the management can be properly and legally secure. Fourthly, the law must provide for a regime whereby a separate company cannot be subjected entirely unscrupulously to recovery claims arising out of a situation for which the State is responsible. Such effects are directly indecent and may arise as a result of this proposal. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I note that the government continues to be careless with its legislation, by presenting legislative proposals without regard to the consequences they will have for individuals and companies in Sweden. It is a frighteningly arrogant attitude from our government. Unfortunately, the Alliance continues to abstain instead of helping to create solutions that benefit Sweden and Swedish companies. They choose to wait only passively for a predictable investigation instead of acting to develop concrete measures to resolve obvious errors. The Swedish Democrats, on the other hand, stand up for legal certainty and fair legislation in Sweden.
i-5UCASBWTuq2Bjvsbkozzq8	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the Sku26 report. With its membership of the EU, Sweden has transferred some of its decision-making rights to the EU institutions. This has been done to varying degrees. In some areas, the EU alone has the power to decide on the basis of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shortening the TFEU. This applies, for example, to: Competition policy, of which state aid rules are part. The main rule under Union law is that State aid is not allowed, as there is a risk that increasing competition in the internal market. However, State aid may be exempted: In some cases be allowed. Union law sets different requirements for authorising State aid. ..................................................... Thankfully, in recent years, the Commission has tried to simplify the State aid control procedure and has therefore adopted regulations in various areas. Certain categories of aid have been considered compatible with the TFEU, provided that certain conditions are met. 中 Member States have undertaken to adapt existing aid schemes to the new Guidelines within a certain period, but by 1 July 2016 at the latest. It is a date that we can play with as we please, but it is set in the proposal. The bill proposes amendments to the Energy Tax Act. Tax rules are aligned with the EU Energy Taxation Directive. 中 Reduction or exemption from these taxes may constitute State aid within the meaning of the rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, abbreviated by the TFEU. The proposal introduces, for tax exemptions in the field of fuel taxation which constitute State aid, rules to comply with the provisions of EU law on publication and information on a website and restrictions on the granting of State aid to firms in difficulty or subject to recovery. ..................................................... Very simplified means changes in the Act on Tax on Energy, LSE. Our tax rules are aligned with the EU Energy Taxation Directive. Reductions or exemptions from these taxes may constitute State aid, in accordance with the rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The proposal introduces rules to comply with the provisions of EU law on disclosure of tax exemptions in the field of fuel taxation that constitute State aid. As I see it, the proposal is therefore about legislative adjustments that are necessary for continued Swedish state aid in the field of fuel taxation. We have more climate-friendly policies than many other EU states in this area. We may think that the whole energy tax directive should be rewritten on the basis of Swedish starting points, based on a carbon tax. But that is not the reality. With those words, I would like to reiterate my support for the proposal contained in the report.
i-b8fca2160165a859-42	Mr President, I would like to I forgot to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1. I do. That's why I pushed for line. I have no question to the Social Democrats.
i-b8fca2160165a859-44	Mr President, I would like to I have nothing to add.
i-b8fca2160165a859-45	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to debate the report 'Supplementary amount for special support for children and pupils'. There are no reservations on the matter. So we all agree. I think that is very good, not least for the children's sake. We will have to go back to 1 July 2009 to find the background to today's case. At that time, new rules for calculating the contribution of municipalities to individual heads of preschools and schools came into force. The rules are based on a principle of equal treatment. Individual principals shall receive grants under the same conditions as municipal activities. The grant consists of a basic amount and an additional amount. The additional amount shall be provided for children and pupils in need of comprehensive special support. In order for the supplement to be paid, it should be an extraordinary measure which is not linked to the usual teaching. The aid should deviate significantly from the resources normally allocated to the general support provided by the school in normal education. Additional amounts may be paid, for example, for technical aids, specific teaching materials and support measures for pupils with major learning difficulties due to linguistic or social factors. It may also be a matter of assistance or adaptation of premises. However, the municipality of residence is not obliged to pay additional payments if this entails significant organisational or financial difficulties for the municipality. Since the rules entered into force in 2009, there has been disagreement between municipalities and principals in the interpretation of what is to be included in the additional amount and in what situations it is to be paid. There is no guidance on how to interpret the provisions. It has been understood in the application that the aid must not be linked to the teaching situation itself. A very large number of cases have had to be tried in court due to this disagreement in the interpretation. The question went all the way up to the Supreme Administrative Court, where there was a ruling in 2012. The grounds for the judgment were, inter alia, that the provisions on additional payments require an individual examination of each student's unique situation and needs. Thus, for each individual child and each individual student in need of special support, an individual examination of the measures needed for that particular child or pupil must be carried out. As a result, we need to make a minor amendment to the Education Act in order to clarify the meaning of the right to additional payments. The Government considers that additional funding must also be eligible for exceptional support measures to meet the child's or pupil's needs in the teaching situation. In the School Act, it must be written in that the additional amount must be individually determined according to the child's or pupil's needs. The provisions of the Regulation should be amended in order to clarify that additional payments can also be made for exceptional support measures which, for example, a child or a student with major learning difficulties needs to be provided in education. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2016. In this way, the law can be applied already at the autumn semester this year, which is very good for the children. s No changes are proposed as regards the other conditions for the submission of an additional amount, but the amendment of the law is merely a clarification. The basic requirement remains, i.e. that a student's need for special support must be substantial in order for an additional amount to be provided. The needs of other pupils for special support are included in normal education and are included in the basic amount. Clarification is very welcome in municipalities, among school leaders and not least among courts. It is very unfortunate that matters must go all the way up to the Supreme Administrative Court. In the case of upper secondary school, changes were made for pupils who started their education after 30 June 2013, when the specially designed programme was removed. There is still one provision in the Education Act which refers to the programmes which do not currently exist.
i-55CC5q17tDWhQMPWQrtxcK	I therefore support the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Education and Training.
i-b8fca2160165a859-59	Mr President, I would like to Passing school is the basis for being able to follow your dreams and have a good life. Getting through school is the basis for making class trips, getting a job and being able to make a living. All students have the right to receive the support they need to complete school. Some need more, others less. But the right to receive the support you need should apply to everyone. There is nothing in the school law that pupils who need extra support should not be able to get it if they choose an independent school. If the student's right to support were self-evident for all municipalities and of course regardless of which school the student chooses to attend, today's change in the school law would not have been necessary. Of course, it is possible to be hindsighted and say that the law would have been written more clearly. But basically it's about municipalities choosing to let economics and ideology go ahead with students' right to support. It is quite remarkable that the drive to undermine the opportunities for free schools to operate in a municipality can overshadow the right of each student to receive the support he or she needs for his or her development. In connection with several court cases and an indicative ruling by the Supreme Administrative Court, it is clear that clarification is needed. Without the clarification that we are going to decide on today, there is a risk that individual children and pupils will not receive the support for their development to which they are entitled. This applies to pupils who need a great deal of effort in teaching. With this change in the school law, I hope that all students and parents will be able to feel more confident that no matter which school they choose, they should be able to be sure that students have the same resources and support regardless of who runs the school. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-b8fca2160165a859-66	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. All children and pupils should be given the stimulus, support and direction they need in their learning and personal development. It is a fundamental starting point, and it is laid down in the School Act. At the same time, we know that many children and students have disabilities and may need extra support to be able to learn, develop and achieve the goals of education. Unfortunately, however, the current regulatory framework is not clear in terms of additional support for these particular children and students. That is why we have these problems that have led many schools to appeal how the municipalities have dealt with this. It is therefore extremely important that we amend the law now, that we agree that the law should be clarified, that there should be individual trials for these children and that it should be written into the school law. I think it is important for us in the School Act to clarify that the additional amount is linked to the needs of the individual child and the individual student and that the additional amount is determined individually. This is clear from the draft legislation. It is our conviction that this clarification will make it easier for students with major learning difficulties to receive the support they need and are entitled to. Please note that it is about children and students who are in extra need of this support. This change can also be seen as an important part of a series of changes and investments made by the government to help increase knowledge outcomes and increase equality in the Swedish school. It is about providing all children and students with the support they need at an early stage. It's about giving students support at different levels. It is about giving teachers the time they need for their educational mission. It is about increasing access to specialist educators and teachers. This is about extra investments in student health. And it is about a number of other important measures that the government is taking to increase the conditions for all children to reach the goals of education.
i-b8fca2160165a859-72	Mr President, I would like to As has been emphasised earlier in the debate, this is a dossier and a report in which there is a great deal of agreement. One can consider why we should then have a debate on such a matter, but it will be an opportunity for us to both explain and justify why the situation has arisen, what has been behind it and how we see the future. The report says about the third chapter of the Education Act, and I intend to read it in order for it to be absolutely right. The third chapter of the Education Act on the development of children and pupils towards the goals states that all children and pupils should be given the guidance and encouragement they need in their learning and personal development in order to be able to develop as far as possible according to the goals of the education. It is so incredibly important that all children have the same conditions. When the Alliance Government took office, it put forward a proposal on a level playing field, and in 2009, a number of rules were introduced in order to enable children, regardless of school head, to receive the support they are entitled to. In the preparatory work it seems very clear what this would mean, but just as Maria Stockhaus mentioned earlier, a number of court cases have made it difficult for students to get the support they need. It is clear that it is important that this is corrected, and it is now being done with the clarification contained in the proposal we are debating today. It is good that this is clarified, but at the same time one can think a little about why it should take so long to make such changes in this regulatory framework. We know that every day children need the support they need to get as far as possible. The enumeration Jabar Amin earlier made was quite interesting. The efforts he mentioned that the government was highlighting were also those made by the alliance government, and I think it is positive that we can show that there is largely a consensus in education policy. This concerns investments in specialist teachers, school health care and so on, and it is these efforts that the alliance government also carried out during its years. With that, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-b8fca2160165a859-78	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to remind you of a story about a donkey standing between two haysticks. I'm not the one who's meant to be. Jean Buridan, an old philosopher who was born many years ago, wrote a story. It was about dogs, but for posterity it has come to be about donkeys. It is an ass standing between two haysticks that look identical, so the donkey cannot choose, but finally starves to death. This became an ideological basis for saying that someone else should decide for people. Someone else should decide what's important and which hayfly the donkey should choose. It's an ideology that for a long time said that the state or someone else should be in charge of man, because man can't cope with it-- when faced with two identical choices, he finally becomes so confused that he starves to death, just like Jean Buridan's donkey. Freedom of choice is largely about shaping one's own life. Not only is it important to make the choice in itself – for example, choosing school, health care, doctors or elderly care – but it is also an important part of a person's story about his or her own life. It is about man's formatting and shaping of his own life. It is by making your own decisions that man grows. It is another ideology one can imagine, namely the liberal. These two views of man have often resisted each other. One says that man is not able to choose and that someone else is therefore going to do so, and the more liberal – or bourgeois – says that man can grow and make decisions and therefore should be allowed to do so. Sometimes choices are difficult to make, but it is still important that people have the right to do them. The solution to difficult choices is not for someone else to make them, but the solution is to get people themselves to grow into the role required to make difficult choices. Sometimes it is necessary to have better information or better conditions for making those elections, and I am pleased that the committee today agrees that the line we want to take on this particular issue is to improve the possibility of making informed choices. Then someone can say: But it would be better if all schools were good schools, so that you don't have to choose and know that everyone is just as good – then the choice doesn't matter so much? My point is that it is rather the opposite, that is, that all schools should be equally good but that some schools are good for some students while other schools are better for other students. It is therefore important that the student is given the chance to choose the school that she enjoys best or that she or her parents think she has the best chance to grow and learn the most. Different schools suit different people differently well. That is why, as Ulrika Carlsson and Maria Stockhaus have said earlier, it is so important that there is a level playing field between independent schools and municipal schools. Regardless of what conditions you have in social, functional or other ways, you get the chance to make good choices – whether it is municipal or independent schools. What the committee is doing today, Mr President, has many technicalities in itself and is in many ways an answer to judgments that have come before. But basically it is about facilitating freedom of choice, ensuring that freedom of choice applies to everyone and ensuring that independent schools and municipal schools have equal conditions to meet the conditions of different pupils. That is why this is important, Mr President, and that is why the Liberals will also vote in favour of the proposal in the report.
i-b8fca2160165a859-85	Mr President, I would like to We in the Christian Democrats believe that it is important that all students should be offered as equal terms as possible. This also applies to pupils who have chosen a school that has a different principal from the municipalities. The fact that an independent school should be able to carry out its activities on the same terms as a municipal school is fundamental. It is the pupils and parents who make the choice of school, and they should not be punished if they make a choice that the municipality does not consider right. It seems that for our own convenience we often lump together the students and try to create rules and ways to distribute funds based on the assumption that each student is the same as the bench mate. It may come as a surprise to many, but I can assure you that the benchmate is not the same. Each person is unique, and with it comes a responsibility for all of us to meet each individual according to their circumstances. We must realise that every human being is unique and cannot be presumed to function exactly the same as the others. To see each individual and create conditions for each student places high demands on our teachers. Then it is also reasonable for municipalities to provide schools with the necessary resources to carry out this task. We Christian Democrats are in favour of independent schools being available as alternatives. Sometimes they are like a torch on municipal activities and an opportunity for citizens to measure results, resources, satisfaction and more. In short, competition is also good in the field of education. It is my firm conviction that every student begins his schooling with a bright picture and dreams of what he wants to become. Then the school's task will be to support, help and fill the student with knowledge that meets the demands of society – while the flame of wanting to learn should remain. For the flame to remain, each student must meet individually, at his or her level, at each individual occasion. This approach should not be stopped because we want to allocate funds according to a template that no one fits into or makes it as difficult as possible for those in need of extra support to actually benefit from that support, regardless of their principal. We should see the individual as a resource for the future. The more we invest in the student and make sure that he ends up right, the more we get back for a long time to come. In the case of additional payments, it is good to make it clearer that free schools can also expect additional funds when additional adjustments are needed. It is good for the student who needs extra support, whose parent then does not have to go through a legal process. With regard to the distinction between special support and additional adjustment, the preparatory work on the provision on the additional adaptation of teaching in the framework of regular teaching indicates that specific support relates to actions of a more interventional nature. These are actions that are not normally feasible for teachers in the context of regular teaching, although the scope and duration of the actions must be taken into account. I believe that there is a small topic of discussion for the municipalities to deal with in order to get this right, but sometimes it is good to propose instead of convicting. It is the student who is affected if he does not get the extra resources needed – not the school, but the student. We believe that the bill is good and that it helps the individual student towards his or her goal. Let's get behind it.
i-b8fca2160165a859-93	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. I also wanted to start my speech by revealing something about myself, and that is that I am bad at mathematics. I believe and have a feeling that there may be many who have the negative feeling before mathematics and have had it as a child. Actually, I think it's about that in my youth I obviously didn't manage to crack the code and didn't feel that mathematics was funny. I guess I, like many other children, needed some extra support. Today I have gone from hating mathematics to saying that it is not my strongest side. I have always dreamed of being able, and I have learned the hard way that it pays to break the code at an early age. But no one should have the feeling of not being able, of being too stupid for something. With the right support and effort, I think you can make anyone flower. Mr President, I would like to This report is about increasing teaching time in mathematics. The proposal proposes that the minimum total teaching time be increased by 105 hours in comprehensive school, special school and Sami school, as well as in primary school, except in the specialization training school. A few years ago, a similar report was debated. This resulted in an increase of 120 hours in mathematics to 1,020 hours in comprehensive school and corresponding school forms in the autumn semester 2013. Despite this change and seen in an international perspective, it was estimated that Sweden is low and noted that the number of hours must be increased to now proposed 1,225 hours. Raising mathematics is therefore one of the three subjects required for eligibility for all national programmes in upper secondary school. And mathematics has a significant role in Swedish schooling and should not be underestimated. It has bearing on a variety of subjects such as physics, chemistry, social science, music and also crafts, to name a few subjects. Unfortunately, there are many indications that Swedish students' mathematics skills have deteriorated during the 21st century. The image of Swedish students' deteriorating knowledge of mathematics is also confirmed in international evaluations. From a performance above the OECD average in PISA 2000 the Swedish results in PISA 2012 were well below average. Similarly, Timss 2007 shows a clear deterioration for Swedish eighth graders compared to measurements made in 1995 and 2003. In Timss 2007 Sweden participated for the first time with grade 4 and the result for Swedish fourth graders was below the average for 20 participating EU and OECD countries. It could also be seen that the equivalence between students has deteriorated. Girls overall perform better than boys, and low-performance students lose the most. All of this is very worrying. We have to reverse the downward spiral. The Government considers it urgent to improve the ability of Swedish students to acquire knowledge of the subject of mathematics as soon as possible by increasing their teaching time. The bill refers to the results in international comparative studies but also to the national grade statistics. There is also international research that supports the connection between teaching time and knowledge results. Mr President, I would like to We must be humble to this challenge and realise that no action alone is sufficient to increase Swedish students' knowledge of mathematics. In addition to increasing teaching time, more efforts need to be made in the school field in parallel. The Social Democratic-led government is working to increase the number of qualified and legitimised teachers, strengthen teachers' skills and strengthen mathematics education by just increasing teaching time. This can all have positive effects and hopefully contribute to an improved achievement of the objectives of the entire education and training system. In this context, the Government also highlights other efforts and measures that are important to raise Swedish students' knowledge of mathematics. For example, as I said, research indicates that teachers' teaching skills are the single most important factor for pupils' knowledge acquisition and results. The Government therefore highlights the importance of quality in teaching and that efforts to strengthen the competence of teachers in mathematics and didactics are central to the Government's ambition to increase students' knowledge. Mr President, I would like to I look with confidence at the school of the future and Swedish education. The Red-Green Government provides additional resources and support to the school. The focus has been and still is an attractive teacher's profession and an equal school. On an annual basis, the Government contributes 2.8 billion to low-level and fritis. Together with the pre-school money we invest and the 10 welfare billions that go out to our municipalities, it finally feels that these efforts can become a reality. In addition, the government is investing 3 billion in teacher's salary and an additional half a billion in strategic work to reverse development in vulnerable areas. I hope everyone who works in the school world sees and feels they're important because they are. I usually say that without a good foundation, without education, people and countries stop developing. Our teachers and all the other fantastic staff contribute to this very foundation. The work to improve the conditions for teachers, learning, formation, children and staff is finally on the agenda. We prioritise the school before major tax cuts and look forward to continuing to develop Swedish school.
i-b8fca2160165a859-109	Mr President, I would like to Today, Parliament has an important proposal on its table to take a position on, namely to increase mathematics education in grades 4 – 6. At the risk of upsetting some of my fellow Members here, I would say that there are in fact not many issues that are more important for this House than education. It is with education that we lay the foundation for each person's ability to shape his own life. Education policy is the single strongest weapon this House has in terms of opportunities to create and shape life chances for people. This is where we lay the foundations for people's ability to shape their own lives according to their own head and where they are going rather than where they come from. But it is also with education that we lay the foundations for our common prosperity and prosperity. However, over the last three decades, Mr President, developments and the results of this joint promise have gone in the wrong direction. During its eight years, the Alliance government began a partly new journey for Sweden, where the school would return to a clear focus: to convey knowledge and skills. Major efforts were made to train teachers. New teacher training and increased teaching time are some important steps that have already been taken and that the Riksdag now obviously wants to see more of in the future. However, we still have a great deal to do to ensure that every student is guaranteed the start of life that he actually deserves. Sweden today, despite the major changes made by the Alliance Government, has less teaching time than other comparable countries. When you put the results we get in the Swedish school next to the teaching time, it is difficult to turn a blind eye to the connection that arises. It is time for all parties in this House and all the people in this country to realise that there are no miracle pills for Sweden – that we do not differ so much from everyone else and that we cannot do less than everyone else and still expect the same or even better results. Mr President, I would like to Today we have to consider the next step in the expansion of the quality of education initiated by the Alliance, namely one hour more mathematics in grades 4 to 6. This may seem like a small step but is such a big one. Mathematics is not like any other subject. Mathematics lays the foundation for learning in many other subjects and is directly necessary to master early in school in order to manage well as a student. Lack of knowledge in mathematics is also the main reason why Swedish students are falling behind and that so many are unauthorized to apply for upper secondary school. When mathematics education fails, the consequences are simply very great. In recent decades, Swedish school results have fallen behind in terms of knowledge, and this is perhaps the most obvious in mathematics. Sweden is currently performing the worst of all Nordic countries in PISA in terms of mathematics, and 25 of the 34 OECD countries are now ahead of Sweden. At the same time, the proportion of high-performance students in mathematics has halved in the Swedish school. Sweden has less mathematics education than other comparable countries. In high school, we even have the least teaching time of all comparable countries in Timss 2011. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance saw this and acted. The mathematics lift, the largest competence lift in a single subject, was launched, and mathematics education was extended already in 2013 in grades 1 – 3. In 2014, the Riksdag took a position to increase mathematics education in grades 4 to 6, which I welcome the fact that the government parties are now behind and we can therefore proceed with. On the initiative of the alliance parties, the Parliament has also stated that the teaching time in mathematics at secondary school should also be extended by one hour. Here, however, the 300 000 students who need this education will have to wait for the government's will to dare to invest in school for real. Worth noting is that every year we wait to complete further mathematics education in high school, 12 million teaching hours are burning inside. Mr President, I would like to We need to look forward, and the Moderates have proposed that the teaching time for all students should be extended by one hour per day. It will be an expensive reform, but it is very important for the future. I hope that the other parties in this House will also recognise the need for this reform. The need remains great even after this proposal. Mr President, I would like to Sometimes one plus one can be three. With more teaching time and better teachers, students can reach much longer than they do today. With increased teaching time in mathematics in grades 1 to 3, with the Mathlift as a competence increase for teachers and now with increased teaching time in grades 4 to 6, Sweden is taking further much needed steps forward to strengthen the knowledge results in school. I support the committee's proposal.
i-b8fca2160165a859-124	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report. Mathematics is one of the central subjects of school. In addition, it provides a basis for many other subjects in school and much more in life. Furthermore, mathematics is one of the three subjects required for eligibility for all national programmes in upper secondary school. Due to the development of mathematics education over the past decade, Swedish students' mathematics skills have deteriorated during the 2000s. The percentage of students achieving the goals in mathematics at the end of grade 9 has decreased while the average merit, i.e. the average grade, for the other subjects of comprehensive school has increased. The image of Swedish students' deteriorating knowledge of mathematics is confirmed in several international evaluations, not least in PISA and Timss. It is important that we help to increase Swedish students' mathematics skills as soon as possible. This can be done, among other things, by increasing the number of mathematics hours in primary school, as the government has proposed in the proposal on which today's report is based.
i-b8fca2160165a859-129	We welcome the inclusion of this increase in grades 4 to 6. Mr President, I would like to We have turned cuts and tax cuts into investments in Swedish schools. The alliance earlier cut down with about 10,000 employees. Now it is gratifying that we have 13 000 new employees in the Swedish school. It'll make a difference. It will contribute to Swedish students' knowledge that we get so many new employees. Now the students can have more time with their teachers, and the teachers can devote time to their teaching assignments. We are convinced that this, together with many other reforms, will increase Swedish students' knowledge of both mathematics and other subjects.
i-b8fca2160165a859-132	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal for additional teaching time in mathematics. Like the representatives of the Social Democrats, I thought I'd be a little personal connected to mathematics. I have thought a lot about two examples. Many have the experience of being curious about many subjects early on and that they want to cope with them and develop. You who are about the same age as I may remember Hello mathematics with the book of the Monkey, the Star Book and so on. It was a teaching material where you quickly climbed and felt that you really improved and learned many different things. The fact that you, along with your class and a well-trained teacher, have the opportunity to early see the charm and understand the benefits of mathematics is fundamental. As previous participants in the debate have pointed out, mathematics is a basic subject, which in many ways contributes to greater understanding. Physics, chemistry and so on have been mentioned. If we are to be able to meet the major challenges we have in the future, such as being a strong knowledge nation in terms of research and more and being able to provide some answers to the climate challenges that exist, a high quality of basic education in mathematics is a very important factor. In my second personal reflection, I want to highlight my mathematics Ama from high school. She's still an active teacher. As we went through difficult things in mathematics, Ama said: You may not understand from the beginning what is the benefit of it, but trust me. In just a few weeks, you'll understand. To have the courage to trust your teacher and feel such confidence in his skills that you put work into something that you don't understand the benefit of from the beginning but then get the opportunity to see the result of I see as incredibly important. That is why one of the great efforts of the alliance government, namely the mathematical boost, is so important. I would like each student to have such a teacher as a Ama who in different ways can help you to feel that you are developing on the subject and learning things. Mathematics can be difficult many times. Here, too, time is a factor. I am pleased that the committee is so united on the importance of additional time for mathematics. There were criticisms from current government management against breaking out the subject of mathematics and not taking everything into the hourly plan. I am glad that it has realised the importance of now highlighting and expanding the time for mathematics. It is so important that every child is given additional time for mathematics as soon as possible. If you look at, for example, the Mattelift and link it to the competence and competence that exists today in the Swedish school, it is clear that these are frightening figures. The first teacher training in 1988 for teachers for grades 1 to 7 and 4 to 9 was based on good ideas that teachers would become more specialized. Then they came out and met reality and became a class teacher. They faced quite major challenges linked to the fact that as teachers they were not qualified for, for example, mathematics in the early ages. Subsequent teacher education reforms have also been such that it has not been possible to show that so-called primary school teachers had basic competence to teach mathematics. It's been an important part. Subject knowledge is as important as methodology and didactics. These are important elements that the mathematical lift but also the new teacher training from 2011 has meant. It further strengthens the possibility of increasing this. I'm not going to bring up any more numbers on jurisdiction. I would like to ask the representatives of the Social Democrats a question. In this context, can we not also discuss ten-year primary school and the possibility of starting early? Already today we know that for preschool teachers an effort is being made on mathematics. I can see as an important part that you start working as early as possible for students' mathematics skills. Then perhaps you should discuss mathematics and truthfulness in certain statements. I would like to address Mr Amin of the Green Party who points out that 10 000 people have been cut down at school. Let us then be so honest that we are also talking about the corresponding reduction in the number of pupils. If you look at the teacher density, there is little difference for teachers per student. As the number of students changes over the years, there are both new investments but also cuts to make it work well. Let us be honest enough to mention the whole picture. With this in mind, I would once again like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-b8fca2160165a859-147	Mr President, I would like to On two central issues of school policy, the committee is now united in detail, but certainly important details. One is about freedom of choice, which we discussed before. The second is about the need for more mathematics education, which we are discussing now. That's very good. I hope that in the future we will also agree on the importance of freedom of choice, mathematics and knowledge in Swedish schools. Mathematics is important for several reasons. On the other hand, as many have said before, it is the foundation for many other subjects, partly it is quite clearly linked to what has long meant that Sweden has gone very well in terms of economics, prosperity and welfare. For a long time, Sweden has built up the wealth that we are living from today. That prosperity can quickly disappear if you do not make sure to build the foundation properly. This presupposes that you have good knowledge in school, and perhaps particularly important is mathematics. A great deal of reform is needed to cope with math. We are discussing today for more hours. I hope that in due course we can also discuss even more hours in primary school during the latter part. It is, of course, fundamentally a question of having good teachers who know mathematics and can teach mathematics. It is about developing methodology and didactics and ensuring that there is a clear signal from society that mathematics is not boring and difficult but actually fun and very useful to have. There is a need for leadership on those issues to say math is important and is not as dangerous as many try to give the picture of. Of course, how to talk about a subject determines how it is experienced by the students. It is also important that you use the day better than you do today and that we ensure that there is more time for mathematics education. Time matters, time makes a difference and time means that more people will learn mathematics and meet the knowledge requirements we have today. Mr President, I would like to I do not think we should be satisfied with the knowledge requirements we have today. Of course, we will aim for more people to pass the teaching we have today. But at the same time we must aim to lift Sweden further because it is so central to Swedish prosperity and prosperity. We must aim to have high ambitions in school in general and perhaps above all at the moment for mathematics. We cannot escape the fact that, in general, anyone who expects to live on old merits will soon find that prosperity and competitiveness are falling for a country. Perhaps it explains why Sweden has lost knowledge in school in international comparisons for a long time. We really need to be clear that the future prosperity we want is built on the knowledge taught at school today. The pensions I hope to receive at one time are being built by the students who attend school today. If knowledge sinks there in mathematics, Swedish, history and other subjects, Sweden will gradually become a poorer country with lower prosperity and lower welfare. Mr President, I would like to It is good that the committee and the House agree that we need more hours of teaching in mathematics. I would also like us to agree to further increase the teaching time in mathematics focused more on the higher stages. I would like us in the committee to be able to agree to raise knowledge requirements and expectations in other areas of Swedish school as well. It is vital that we succeed in this. There is a need for a clear signal from the Education Committee and the Swedish Parliament that Sweden will meet the knowledge challenge and the requirements we have today. But also to raise ambitions and strive for Sweden to become one of the world's best countries for school – it would give a clear signal in society that we want more. Mr President, I would like to I'm not sure that's the case. But I very much hope that the House will agree that both freedom of choice and knowledge are central to Swedish schools.
i-b8fca2160165a859-157	Mr President, I would like to The starting point of Christian Democrats is that man naturally seeks knowledge. The goal of the school is to realise the full potential of each individual student. The school also has a management task to pass on the achievements and experiences of previous generations and encourage the search for knowledge in the past. We need to rebuild an educational tradition based on trust and trust between students, teachers and parents, where school conveys knowledge and stimulates pupils' intellectual development. The development of the Swedish school and its results can be discussed in many different ways. Of course, our school has undergone a development, and unfortunately we have sometimes chosen the wrong paths. My view is that in many ways we have politicised the school far too much, that is, we as politicians in municipal decision-making positions and the Riksdag have used the school for other purposes than for what it is primarily intended for. We put on staff various things that remove its focus from what is important, the individual student, its development and focus on its learning. PISA results are an example of measurements that indicate that we need to focus on knowledge and give the student the best opportunity to get so good knowledge as possible during their schooling. Reading and mathematics are the basics on which we have focused in recent years and need to focus more. Are there examples that when the school has focused on mathematics that it has helped in other subjects? I managed as many other google forward Sydsvenskan from June 15, 2015. There are examples of Dammfriskolan, Linnéskolan, Munkhätteskolan, Sorgenfriskolan, Stenkulaskolan and Västra Hamnen school. They are the schools in Malmö that have increased their rating average most in recent years. What was interesting was what the headmaster of Dammfriskolan answered when he was asked why things had gone much better. The answer was: We have received advanced education in math where we do the lessons everyday, discuss in groups and work with problem solutions. We have been doing eight to ten years of our development work, and this is where we start harvesting. Changing a school's development is not a one-year project. There are long intervals of time on this. One might wonder whether these schools are alone in having these experiences. Of course, that is not the case; in my municipality, we have created a math workshop that encourages students to see mathematics in a different way than just numbers in a book because it caused them to fall asleep as soon as they opened the book. Creating interest in mathematics and its opportunities is one way to move forward to more knowledge. Increasing math hours while organising teaching in an interesting way will make it much better in other subjects as well. Reading and mathematics are extremely important for other subjects, and the focus for us as politicians should be to ensure that the foundation is as stable as possible. We Christian Democrats believe that Swedish students' mathematics skills are a crucial issue for Sweden's growth and future opportunities to become a world-class knowledge nation. The proposal contains proposals for amendments to the School Act. It is proposed to extend the minimum total teaching time by 105 hours. Of course this is good. It is moving in the right direction, and we believe that this is a way forward. At the same time, we are pleased to see that similar efforts have been made with regard to reading and also sport. We believe that reading and mathematics and that students are moving are a combination that will make us improve the results that exist in PISA, for example. I could finish here and say that it's great that we all agree that the bill is good. But what makes me angry and a little irritated is the Green Party, which tries to paint a picture of the Alliance wanting to cut back on health care and school. That's not true. It cannot be said that the resources for school and care were reduced during the alliance government. That's not true. Certainly – it is true that the tax burden on the different parts of society was reduced, but it also made it possible for more tax resources to be allocated to society. You should stick to the truth that exists. There are statistics and facts to look at in this regard. I hope we will continue to do so.
i-b8fca2160165a859-167	Mr President, I would like to Swedish military alliance freedom has served the country well since the current foreign policy line was introduced by Karl XIV Johan. It has kept the country out of war since 1814. It is, of course, important to contribute to relaxation in the military strategic area where Sweden is located. At the same time, it is also important to ensure that it is possible to work preventively to reduce the risk of military aggression aimed at adversely affecting our national freedom or the Swedish people's self-determination. Is the host country agreement and NATO the right way to contribute to de-stress? I will readily admit that the Swedish Democrats have been in favour of a host country agreement. We have taken a positive view of an agreement that makes it easier to get together with the military of other countries. But that was before we saw the agreement that this report is about. As far as the host country agreement is concerned, there is no fundamental investigation and analysis of the actual importance of the agreement for Sweden's freedom of alliance and the consequences of security policy. One might wonder why such an analysis and evaluation were not carried out before the agreement was signed. In this context, however, it should be borne in mind that the agreement was signed by the bourgeois government, which has had eight years to dismantle Swedish defence capabilities and use the Swedish Armed Forces as a cash cow from which money could be milked to finance other reforms and activities. It should be remembered that as early as the year after the bourgeois government took office, the then Minister of Defence resigned in protest against the savings of his own government colleagues at the Swedish Armed Forces. The defence budget fell from already low 1.5 per cent of GDP to 1.2 per cent. The then Prime Minister Reinfeldt called the defense a special interest. As recently as in January 2014 at the People's and Defence National Conference, in the midst of ongoing protests at the Majdan Square in Kiev and after Russia conducted its largest preparedness exercise in many years, the then Minister of Defence Enström spoke about the fact that a security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region is more stable today than 10 years ago, and that the assessment that an armed military attack against Sweden is unlikely for the foreseeable future is also the basis for the design of the defence. After this dismantling of the Swedish defence capability, it has also, as a bonus, managed to get Swedish opinion for a Swedish NATO membership to start growing. Sweden can no longer defend itself, so now we have to join NATO – that is an increasingly common argument we hear. And all of a sudden, all the bourgeois parties are standing warm because it is now time to seek membership of NATO. The issue is being pursued in all possible contexts. The previously compact Swedish resistance to a Swedish NATO membership has begun to soften. The ability to defend is poor, and the bourgeois parties come in unison all the time with the same solution to the problem: NATO membership. You don't have to be conspiracy-theoretic in order to see what it's like. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would like to make it very clear that the Swedish Democrats are opposed to a Swedish NATO membership. Last autumn, the party confirmed this position by a large majority at the time of our national days. Similarly, we are clear that we are opposed to the host country agreement. The host country agreement is a way of sneaking in a Swedish NATO membership by the back door. Once the agreement is in place, the arguments come as a letter in the post: we are now as close to NATO as we can only, without membership and without the protection of membership, that we simply have to join. That is, of course, quite the right analysis. I fully understand that the bourgeois parties are applauding this. But the fact that the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party, which have so far opposed Swedish NATO membership, do not see this as surprising to me. Furthermore, the fact that we do not realise the risks of the geopolitical balance and stability of our area being seriously disrupted frightens me. It must be understood that the decisions we take in this House have, of course, consequences. These consequences must be taken into account when making different decisions. Anything else would be foolhardy and naive. Why should we put ourselves at risk if we don't have to? Is it an end in life for some to play hasard with Sweden's safety? Why do we want to expose our country and our people to the risk of being involved in armed conflicts on our own territory? This is precisely what you do when you upset geopolitical stability in our area. If Sweden signs a host country agreement with the Atlantic Alliance, we risk contributing to a situation where tensions between the major powers increase and Sweden becomes involved in a possible conflict. The fact that the Atlantic Alliance may be able to set up a military base in Sweden according to predetermined procedures and with the help of other preparations is something that other great powers must take into account and count on in their war facilities. These countries will of course act and react in some way. How do we not know, but that there will be reactions we can all count on. Sweden is thus at risk of being targeted in the event of conflict, while at the same time we do not have the necessary defence capabilities to deal with such a situation. It is not to conduct a responsible defence and security policy for Sweden. A responsible defence and security policy, on the other hand, presupposes that we are out of power alliances, such as NATO, and have our own defence force with proper defence capabilities. A defensive defence alliance with Finland would provide a good complement to this and would not upset geopolitical stability and the balance of power in our area. Sweden and Finland face the same security policy challenges in view of the countries' common geographical situation. Sweden and Finland also have strong cultural, political and historical ties and a common history. A defence alliance increases the threshold effect and creates new strategic depths, strengthening the defence capabilities of the countries. A defence association with Finland shall not have as stated purpose a defence against a designated party, but shall aim to free the two countries from any external political and military pressure. But to get there requires proper resources for the Swedish Armed Forces. In this way, the appropriations involved in the defence agreement are not enough. Therefore, we also allocate much more to the Swedish defence. Mr President, I would like to It is also remarkable that the host country agreement departs from the Swedish tradition of anchoring all major security policy positions in the Riksdag. The possibility of basing foreign troops on Swedish land is such a position and should therefore be submitted to the Riksdag for decision. The agreement states in section 3.7 that the host country may appoint special agents to negotiate additional documentation written for each operation under the agreement. It also states in the agreement that a national decision to accept NATO in any respect is therefore required first. But what I can see is that somewhere in the agreement you do not define what you mean by national decisions. Every time Swedish troops are to be taken abroad for efforts, parliamentary decisions and approval are required in this Chamber. It is therefore strange that the agreement does not state that it should also be the Riksdag that decides that any foreign units and troops should be based in Sweden. It could have consequences for us to have a NATO-proponent minority government that decides to establish NATO bases in Sweden despite the fact that a majority in parliament, which reflects the will of the people, is against. In view of the fact that the agreement leads Sweden into an extremely uncertain state of security policy, that the consequences of the agreement are not properly investigated and analysed, and that, moreover, the right of decision of the Parliament should be waived, this agreement should be rejected. Unfortunately, both the Social Democrats and the Green Party have failed on this issue, which means that there is today a majority in parliament to ratify the agreement. However, I am convinced that both the Social Democrats and the Green Party have a large and strong opinion that does not agree at all with its Minister for Defence on this issue. My hope is that this opinion can also influence so that this agreement can be terminated. To conclude, Mr President, I support the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats in this report.
i-b8fca2160165a859-187	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say a few introductory words about the process. We would like to express quite a lot of criticism about how the agreement has come to Parliament's table today. As you know, it was signed just before the last government started packing boxes in Rosenbad. It was done without any public debate and therefore entirely in the shadow of the media. It was never mentioned in the Foreign Affairs Committee, which I think should have happened. It was not translated into Swedish until after ten months when the Ministry letter on the same subject came. The Ministry letter went on a very narrow round of consultations – only to authorities and the like and not to peace organisations and other interesting actors in the field. This ministerial letter had at least three crucial flaws as we see it. The first is that nowhere in the letter is there any comprehensive analysis of the security policy implications of the agreement for us and, of course, for the perception of us by the outside world. Security policy is also signal policy. Does this agreement provide greater or less clarity about Sweden's military alliance freedom? The second shortcoming concerns the issue of freedom of alliance. The Ministry of Defence's letter nowhere mentions that it still applies as a basic principle of our foreign and security policy. The word alliance freedom is not even included, even though the letter is 239 pages. On the other hand, the unilateral Swedish so-called Declaration of Solidarity of 2009 is said to be central to Sweden's security policy. The third deficiency concerns nuclear weapons. Nowhere in the agreement or in the ministry letter does the word "nuclear weapons" mention. There is no exception in the agreement to deploy or transport nuclear weapons in Sweden. For NATO, nuclear weapons are, as we know, an integral part of the strategy. More on that later. One should not speculate on the motives of others, but it is difficult in this case not to speculate that the opinion situation was the decisive one. In all parties, the voters who have heard of the host country agreement are more often negative than positive. Such a major change should not be transported to Parliament's table in this way. It should be carefully analysed, debated and democratically anchored. The security policy analysis, Mr President, shines brightly with its absence. Unfortunately, security policy is increasingly being reduced to defence policy, and defence policy in turn is being reduced to military defence. It is true that in the defence-oriented bill that we adopted a year ago, Sweden has several security policy instruments at its disposal to deal with challenges in the immediate area and beyond the immediate area. diplomacy, trade, aid and total defence. However, the broader security policy challenges, which cannot be met by military means or by the other security policy instruments, which could perhaps render military resources unneeded in a given situation, get a weary, if anything, interest. There is a lack of clear proposals on how to design and use those instruments compared to the detailed interest of the military defence. Contacts at ministerial and embassy level with Russia are currently largely non-existent. This is confirmed by Mr Oscarsson, who visited the embassy and received a very good reception because they were rather idle. I find it very strange that this is the case if we now feel that we have a tight relationship with Russia, which we have in many ways. Furthermore, Mr President, it is said that it is only on the Swedish invitation that this can be activated. It is true that the agreement states so, but then there are realities too. If we have made all the preparations to be a host country, it will be harder to say no. For the future, it is the government – the government that then happens to be in power, which is important to remember – that decides to invite NATO or respond to NATO's request to come here. In which situations Sweden can say no, of course, depends not only on the text of the agreement, but also on the reality of power politics. The only guarantor of independent defence decisions is and remains military freedom of alliance. Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of ambiguities in this agreement. That is not surprising in itself, since it is a framework agreement. The problem is that the supplementary agreements should reasonably be signed by the government or even by ÖB. In Finland, there are 57 additional points to the host country agreement, all of which are classified. The host country agreement has a number of consequences which remain very unclear. It is said that basement areas should be established, but how it should be done, where they should be located or how large they should be can no one answer. Is it a small camp with Gunnebo fence around, or are we talking, as in the ACE exercise the other year, about one third of Sweden's surface – the interior of Norrland – ell about Gotland? However, it states that the bases will be under NATO leadership, i.e. neither the Swedish Armed Forces nor the Government will have influence over the activities once the invitations are written and accepted. Sweden should provide the greatest possible support for NATO-led activities, it is said, but how it should be done is very vaguely formulated. The Agreement also describes how the NATO Strategic Headquarters can carry out or delegate legal acts necessary for the fulfilment of the mission. It may therefore be measures that are contrary to Swedish law, as far as I understand. In addition, the agreement means that NATO should be able to establish a temporary headquarters on Swedish territory. Nor is the possibility of setting up a permanent one excluded, even if it is considered unlikely. The Host State and NATO shall appoint representatives to negotiate supplementary documents supporting and specifying the Agreement. When these supplementary documents become up-to-date, how and by whom they are designed and signed, there is no mention of either in the agreement or in the bill. However, something that is not unclear is the following – as uppas four times in the bill: a) The agreement is intended to be used throughout the range of situations where Sweden may receive NATO's military support, i.e. both in peacetime (e.g. for exercises) as in the case of crises and in war in Sweden or in the immediate area. It continues in section 2.1, which reads: This is what the agreement is about – also war in Sweden's neighbourhood. As already indicated in section 1.2, the NATO activities to be conducted from Sweden include attacks on third parties – an attack. Sweden can thus become a base for attacks on third countries. NATO doctrine, as you know, is no longer confined to the defence of the territories of the Member States, but has been opened up to so-called pre-emptive war, as it is called, against anyone and in any part of the world. Sweden's neighbourhood is also not defined. Is it not precisely these possibilities that the freedom of alliance intends to exclude? Then, Mr President, something about nuclear weapons. It is stated in Section 3.3 of the Agreement: a) This Memorandum of Understanding is intended to be consistent with the doctrine and principles of NATO. What, then, does the doctrine say? . Nuclear weapons are a key component of NATO's combined deterrence and defence capabilities. – – As long as nuclear weapons exist, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance. It is written in Chicago 2012. In addition, the US has not signed the obligation not to start a nuclear war – it reserves the right to do so. It is added that five NATO countries today have American nuclear weapons on their territory. It says in the bill that the agreement does not give NATO countries the right to place nuclear weapons on Swedish territory either. ..................................................... My concern about nuclear weapons concerns not only the placement of nuclear weapons on Swedish soil but also the nuclear attacks of foreign power in response to NATO's warfare against this country from Swedish territory, as the agreement allows. If Sweden invites NATO, NATO bases will be established in Sweden. It can be said that in practice it will not be Swedish territory. There, the ÖB decides, but not the Swedish ÖB, but the NATO ÖB. So – I mean a concerned population but also our world around us – one can imagine that nuclear weapons are stored there, especially as we do not ask about it, because we know that they do not respond. It's some kind of peculiar variant of the American army's previous stance against homosexuals in the army: Don In addition, the text of the agreement provides for the possibility of renegotiating the agreement as a whole. Section 11.1 provides for the right to amend the agreement if the parties agree. Three members of the alliance have nuclear weapons. Two of them put them at the disposal of NATO. Nuclear weapons are deployed in Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, Germany and Turkey, of all countries. It is considered perfectly acceptable in relation to the Non-Proliferation Treaty to have nuclear weapons there. In that case, it should also apply to Sweden. There is no Swedish law preventing the introduction of nuclear weapons. The Minister for Defence has said otherwise in this House, but if anything is a lie. Finland has such a clear law. New Zealand has it. But if there was such a law: what would it mean if we did not control compliance even by asking, let alone by more active measures, but only assuming that we comply with the Swedish law that does not exist? The alternatives, then-- what can we do instead, if we do not take the host country agreement? This is a relevant issue, because it is about our safety. We can work more within the OSSE. We have cooperation, sea rescue and maritime surveillance. We should start negotiations on air conduct including transponder use. We have arms control discussions, the disarmament of tactical nuclear weapons, the interaction of the Kaliningrad-Sister-City cooperation type, the stimulation of inter-people contacts in general and the linking of the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region with Russian socio-economic development studies in north-west Russia. We should try to stimulate trade when the sanctions are gone and remedy the visa problem. Finally, Mr President, the key to the Left Party's position is the answer to the question that should always be the focus of this type of decision: does the host country agreement increase or decrease our security? Our view is that it reduces our safety. We help to increase the tension and increase the level of practice, the level of armor and the militarisation of our neighbourhood. Even the risk of getting involved in a war that we are not directly concerned by ourselves or have decided for ourselves increases with this agreement. We believe that the country's leadership should work for detour and disarmament. As an alliance-free state, Sweden has previously had great international confidence in peace negotiations. It should be our goal to regain that role instead of contributing to increased tension and rearmament. Sweden should counter the real causes of war and the threats to Sweden and the world posed by climate change and increased gaps between the poor and the rich. Peace is best built by peaceful means. Finally, both the process itself and all the ambiguities of this framework agreement justify the proposal I am now calling for. In addition: The constitutional freedom of movement, Chapter 2. Section 8 of the form of government may be restricted. It should be carefully investigated. However, my first request, Mr President, is to reject the proposal by endorsing reservation 2. However, if that is the case, we want a minority listing, which I urge.
i-b8fca2160165a859-218	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report of the Memorandum of Understanding on host country aid and the rejection of reservations. Regardless of the outcome of this debate and upcoming votes, Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces will continue to practise with those countries and organisations that they consider necessary to practice with, to the same extent as we consider necessary. A host country grant agreement does not change any of that. I don't usually read aloud from the reports we have. But I was going to take the liberty of reading aloud from the Second Report of the Swedish Defence Committee, on p. 38: In order to develop the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to carry out operations in Sweden, in the immediate vicinity and outside the immediate vicinity, the prerequisites for providing and receiving military support from other countries need to be improved. The necessary preparations are referred to as a concept of host country support (in NATO and the European Union called Host Nation Support, HNS). This requires inter alia: contractual agreements and preparations for practical arrangements and exchange of information on certain defence planning. ..................................................... A little later it says: a similar arrangement has at e.g. international exercises on Swedish territory have so far been resolved through agreements in each specific case. ..................................................... On p. 39, it is also stated that the defence committee requires that host country support is taken into account in the defence planning and that the government urgently takes measures including contractual regulations so that the relevant authorities can create sufficient conditions for Sweden to be able to provide and receive military support. ..................................................... This report was submitted to the government in May 2014. It is available to download on the government website for those who want, and it can also be purchased from the publisher. HNS, Host Nation Support, host country support, is not news. It's been in reports for a long time. Now Sweden is making an agreement within the framework of NATO on how we should take care of hosting when soldiers come here to practice. The alternative is for each exercise to sit down and start from zero and start that particular planning. It goes without saying that it is justifiable to make agreements and maintain them. These agreements relate to the Act on Immunity and Duty Exemption, the Road Traffic Damage Act and the Protection Act. Mr President, I would like to Sweden builds security and stability together with other countries and organisations. Military alliance freedom contributes to stability in the immediate region, and it also gives us freedom of action. However, in order to promote the stabilisation of security policies in our area, we need to work together with others. Membership of the European Union means that we are jointly and severally responsible for Europe's security. We also want closer cooperation with our neighbours in the Nordic countries and with the Baltic countries. However, the security situation in Europe has deteriorated. The increasing activity in the Baltic Sea, Russia's annexation of Crimea and the aggression against Ukraine – which is a violation of international law – affect. We need to practice with others. NATO is the player who, with its permanent military command structure, is the only international organisation with a developed capability for the management and conduct of demanding military operations. We, Sweden, have collaborated with NATO in Partnership for Peace, PFF, since 1994. And we're active. Our cooperation is important, and over the years it has both deepened and developed. We participate in exercises and trainings, and we have also sometimes hosted these exercises. The ability to provide and receive support is a prerequisite for the Swedish Armed Forces to carry out their tasks. Swedish units must be able to interact with other countries' units. International standards of capability, military practical collaboration, so-called interoperability, only NATO can handle at the highest level. This is the basis for Swedish defence capabilities. That is why we must cooperate with NATO. This enhances our technical and operational capability to provide and receive military support. Another prerequisite for this is to be able to prepare practical arrangements when foreign units are to work with us when exercising crisis or military operations. We then need, for example, to allocate resources for management and logistics as well as legal rules on how other countries' units can behave on our land. This is what we call Host Nation Support, host country support, and this is about what we sign an agreement. Countries can come here if we invite them to exercises that are necessary for us. They can't come without the invitation. The agreement regulates the relationship between us and the countries that come here, just as it seems when we are in practice with other countries. This applies to the whole conflict scale, from peace to crisis and, at worst, to increased preparedness and war. We want to provide effective support when other countries come here, and we also want to be received equally effectively in other countries. Everything is based on the voluntary nature of the parties. That is why it becomes relevant only when we in Sweden make a national decision on military cooperation with NATO. We need to raise the threshold for military incidents and conflicts. When we want to practice with others today, there is a series of agreements to be negotiated and also approved on a case-by-case basis. It is often complex issues and also urgent to get the agreements ready. There's a lot of administration behind every deal. That is why it makes it easier to have a memorandum of understanding on host country support for us and for other countries. I would add that when I looked in my iPad just now at how many times the concept of nuclear weapons is mentioned in the defence policy direction, I could count to 19 different places. When I did the same thing with the current Memorandum of Understanding, I was able to find the word a nuclear weapon in five different places. So nuclear weapons are mentioned. With regard to NATO and membership, I assume that everyone knows that we Social Democrats are opposed to Sweden becoming a member. Anyone who believes that membership means that NATO will take care of us at the level we find ourselves at today in terms of defence budgets has been fooled. Of course, many more Swedish crowns must be invested in the Swedish defence. Membership also means that we are radically changing the security policy situation in our part of the world. We shall stand for stability and security ourselves and have a defence that shows a threshold effect that is high enough for a possible attacker to directly understand that Paragraph 5 of the NATO Treaty, which says, "One for all, all for one" means that if one of the members is subjected to an armed attack, everyone should stand up. We in Sweden want to decide for ourselves, not let NATO's decision prevail. I do not think that we see the threat to Sweden today that we, as an individual country, would be subjected to an attack by military power. We have threats against Sweden and our part of the world, but they look a little different from the military. It can range from climate with weather and wind to power outages, cyber attacks and terrorist threats. NATO membership does not solve our problems; it increases the threat to us. Our security is built together with others, in our vicinity, primarily with Finland and the Nordic countries, but also with the Baltics. We also need cooperation with countries that share our values. Continued cooperation with NATO is at the door. Whether our memorandum of understanding is being put on the next vote or if it becomes dormant for a shorter or longer time, it does not prevent us from continuing the exercise with those with whom we want to practice. It will cost a little more for administrative planning in the coming period, but ultimately it will not be crucial to host country support if we are to reduce our cooperation, either with neighbouring countries or with NATO. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-b8fca2160165a859-240	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Lindestam says that the word is mentioned in the Memorandum of Understanding. No, it doesn't. Your party colleague Peter Hultqvist has explained that it is not necessary. We all know what we think. You can compare it to buying a used car. Instead of getting a guarantee of what the seller is obliged to do, he or she says: Yes, but we all know that we usually fix this anyway. I wouldn't buy a used car from Peter Hultqvist. Nor is the concept of nuclear energy mentioned on 239 pages in the Ministry Letter. I've checked it with the help of the computer – it's quite simple these days. The important thing, which Åsa Lindestam overlooks, is that this agreement is intended to be used – and it is not written for peace – in peace, crises and war in Sweden or in our neighbourhood, not specified how far the immediate area extends. I share the criticism of Russia's actions in Crimea and Ukraine, so that is where we agree. But the link must be that it means that the large Russian-speaking minority and our historical ties with the Soviet Union allow us to risk being subjected to the same aggression. That's what I'm talking about is the misconception. It is worth criticising what Russia is doing there, but it does not increase the threats to Sweden. But we are also very critical of NATO. It has committed violations of international law, moved borders by bombing Serbia, made sure that Kosovo became independent – and now has a large NATO base – the Afghanistan war, the Libyan war. That is all that we are now reaping in the wake of the refugee disaster. And it's a military alliance with which we're going to cooperate more and more closely! Some parties even want us to go into that cooperation, parties that can sit in the government next year. Our security is built together. But it also means that everyone should feel safe.
i-b8fca2160165a859-246	Mr President, I would like to I didn't have time to check the word a nuclear weapon in the Departmental Letter, but I started with Defence Policy focus 2016 – 2020. There I found, on a quick look in my Ipad, the word out of nuclear weapons in at least 19 different places. The memorandum of understanding that we are to adopt today in this House, I hope, mentions it in five places. The question is raised and we have problematized it. I was in the last Defence Committee, and we discussed this issue and came up with some things that we thought were good, for example that we should not have nuclear weapons in Sweden. It is emphasised in the defence policy direction 2016 – 2020, which is why nuclear weapons are also mentioned there. As far as I'm concerned, that's enough. Then we know where we stand in Sweden in security policy, and it feels necessary that we have that in place. It is a very important document. So for me it is clear in that part when we have put our foot down in the direction of defence policy. I do not feel that we must continue to raise this issue, but that it has been abandoned. I also think that most people in this House have experienced it that way, because we had the discussion in the defence preparation that we worked so hard on. It was not a small question, but it was discussed very thoroughly.
i-b8fca2160165a859-249	Mr President, I would like to I think Åsa Lindestam, other Social Democrats and many others know where we stand. But there is nothing in the agreement with NATO, which we are going to sign, if we decide it here and that is where it should be. It should also have been a point of reference in the department letter. None of that is the case. I'm going to take another thread, though. Sifo has carried out an investigation into the support for the host country agreement. 57% do not think it should be approved, 27% is in favour. Of the red-green voters, 70% are opposed and 14% are in favour. On the contrary, a prominent German social democrat, Secretary of State Steinmeier, wants to renew dialogue, rebuild confidence and restore security, which may be of interest. Heavy Social Democratic names such as Thage G Peterson, May Britt Theorin and Pierre Schori can hardly be dismissed as ignorant and naive Putin agents. Social Democrats for Faith and Solidarity want to renegotiate the agreement. The party districts in Skåne, Gothenburg and Stockholm would like to table the question for a year. It happens to coincide with our motion. In various ways, it has taken a stand against the Parliament now deciding on a host country agreement. There are many more examples. Does this not show that the criticism I have of the process has a justification? What conclusions do Åsa Lindestam and Social Democracy draw from the late awakening but great resistance?
i-b8fca2160165a859-252	Mr President, I would like to I also received this letter from Sifo. A survey had been conducted with one of the most leading questions I have read. I have previously had good faith in Sifo and their investigations. But when I see how the question is formulated and how it insinuates things that I do not think are true about what the host country agreement will lead to, I understand that one as a Swedish citizen responds in a certain direction, as one does not have the opportunity to reflect on what a host country agreement could actually mean. The question was very clearly biased that we as a country would almost perish if we signed this host country agreement. I think Sifo should be better able than to formulate such questions. We should be able to rely on their investigations, but in this case we cannot. As you ask, you get answers. I'm convinced. In this case, I could only smile when I saw the question. I really can't take the answers and the numbers seriously. When it comes to party districts and how to vote, we have appointed Members of Parliament and have had the issue up in our group a number of times. We have discussed host country support, and as far as I know, my party will vote according to the agreements we have. I think everyone is going to press the right button, unless someone accidentally pushes the wrong button. Of course, the party districts can discuss a great many questions. It's one way to drive the party ahead. However, we Members of Parliament are obliged to raise the issues in the group and then make the decisions we need there.
i-b8fca2160165a859-255	Mr President, I would like to If you read the host country agreement, you can see that it is very profound and so close to NATO accession that you can only come without membership itself entering, with the obligations, opportunities and risks it entails. The representatives of the bourgeois parties have also not hymned that this is a stealth accession to NATO. Only yesterday, however, we were able to read on Expressen's debate page that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist claimed that there was absolutely no question of a stealth accession to NATO but that the bourgeois party representatives were completely wrong. I understand that the bourgeois party representatives sit in this Chamber and find it difficult to stop pulling the smilbands, because this is exactly in line with what they think. But what makes the Social Democrats make an entirely different assessment from the four bourgeois parties? I would like Åsa Lindestam to develop this. The Social Democrats have previously clearly opposed Swedish NATO membership. Did you begin to falter at that point now? Although yesterday the Minister of Defence went out and said that there is no question of a Swedish NATO membership, the issue is justified by this agreement, which is so profound that we are almost there. Then the Social Democrats must also expect the next argument, as I said in my main speech, to come as a letter in the post: now we are so close, but without the safeguard mechanisms of NATO membership, it will be called that only the small step into membership will remain. The Social Democrats must also understand this. What has been done for the security policy analysis of this agreement? There is no analysis of the agreement itself, no examination of the consequences. However, I wonder whether the Social Democratic Party itself has carried out an impact assessment of the agreement which makes it come to a completely different conclusion from the four bourgeois parties. Do not the Social Democrats understand that geopolitical stability is deteriorating and that other countries are going to react to this agreement?
i-b8fca2160165a859-260	Mr President, I would like to I do not know how many organisations and associations Björn Söder is involved in, but for my part I think that you are either involved or not. If you apply for membership and the application is granted, you step in as a member. Until then, however, we are outside, and that is what we are doing today. We do not need NATO membership. That would change the whole security policy situation in our part of the world. From this point of view, we are not interested in applying for membership. We Social Democrats stand firm on the idea that we should not do so. And I guess that's why the bourgeois say so eagerly that we should do it--they feel we stand by our conviction. I cannot see that there would be some kind of stealth connection. It's not on the map in my mind. Like I said, either you're in or you're not. The fact that we want to practice with NATO depends on the international situation. We have been discussing for many years that we need good high-level exercises, which other countries can also assist with. To achieve this, we must practice with others, not only NATO but also Finland. We can do a lot together. This all depends on the world situation we have. It has been discussed for a long time in the Defense Committee how to develop our military capabilities. It's about working with others. I know that this was the reason why the Swedish democrats got off the defence deal. The Swedish Democrats said that you should not work with others at all.
i-b8fca2160165a859-264	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats and Åsa Lindestam must understand that with this agreement a movement in public opinion is set in motion that is inevitable. Without any deeper security policy assessments, the usual argument is: now we are so close, and we have no protection ourselves. We have no defence, because it has been dismantled, so we must now join NATO. I hear such arguments myself in my own party, and I think Åsa Lindestam also hears them when she moves within and outside her party. This host country agreement is launching a movement, and it will put pressure on the Social Democrats to perhaps also eventually re-evaluate the issue of membership. Is that what you are looking for, to slide towards eventually becoming positive for NATO membership? I did not get an answer to the questions about what you in the Social Democrats have done for security policy analysis and if you do not understand that this host country agreement will trigger reactions from other countries. They have already been out and said that you will not only sit still and look at what is happening but will react. We do not know what the reactions will be, but we can assume that there will be reactions with great probability. It must then be understood that the stability that has existed in our area up here, which has been the basis for our being able to be outside war since 1814, will be disrupted. Why should Sweden be subjected to this? I understand that you need to get together. That is why we have been in favour of a host country agreement in the past. But when we see this agreement in writing and see how deep it is, we understand that it exposes Sweden and the Swedish people to risks that are completely unnecessary. The Social Democrats should also do that analysis, because you do not really have to be a rocket scientist to understand this. I do not understand why the Socialist Party and the Minister for Defence are so concerned that this agreement must be put in place. Moreover, the agreement was concluded by the former bourgeois government and is not really something that the Social Democrats would have to back up.
i-b8fca2160165a859-267	Mr President, I would like to I get the feeling that in that case we should have had the discussion in 1995, when Sweden joined the Partnership for Peace. Then we decided that Sweden would cooperate with NATO, and we have done so ever since. Moreover, we have been eager to do so because we have seen that it has been good. We have increased our cooperation now. Why is that? It's the outside world. During my 14 years in the Defence Committee, I have never had so many interested listeners to have a dialogue with about security policy for Sweden. This is not due to Sweden's changing position in the host country agreement, but because the international situation is changing. It is about what is happening in Russia and the Baltic Sea, as well as all the ongoing conflicts and the beginning of conflicts. All of this makes people think. This concerns everything from the threats I mentioned in my speech – weather, wind, climate – to everything else. It is not at all a question of a slip in what we think. We've been saying exactly the same thing all along. In 1995, we decided that Sweden should practice with NATO, and we continue to practice with NATO. Now we want some order. It costs a lot of administrative time to get agreements together each time. Now, instead, we want a ready list of what to do and what to do. I think that's good. Yes, Björn Söder, I agree with you that the movement in security policy is increasing. Interest in Sweden is increasing. That is good, and I welcome it. It is good if people are aware of what is happening in the neighbourhood and in other countries. It's not just good powers that are operating out there right now.
i-b8fca2160165a859-271	Mr President, I would like to A little in the shadow of the reform of the government is the important and interesting debate on the host country in principle, but I hope that Members can keep two big thoughts in mind at the same time. Mr President, I would like to Today we have to deal with the already debated and talked about host country agreement with NATO. Something that started already in 2014 can now finally be decided on in the Swedish parliament. For my part, I would have liked the mills of the law to have been able to grind even faster at the Ministry of Defence. Over the years, I have repeatedly asked questions, and the answers have sounded about the same all the time, namely that the matter is under preparation. It reminds me of so many other things where there are sensitivities and political frictions within the red-green government base and its budget-sharing left-wing party. Another such example is the NATO Strategic Communications Centre in Riga, where we are still waiting for a response from a government that prepares and prepares but has such documented inability to come to a decision. Mr President, I would like to Let me add my speech in such a way that I first touch on the constitutional turns of today's decision and then turn to the substance of the matter. There is a compact and comfortable majority in the Swedish Parliament for the host country agreement. It is important to make this clear at the outset. At the same time, the margin has been swayed recently. Purely remarkable movements have been noted in the political terrain. On extremely weak constitutional grounds, the Left Party wishes to restrain today's decision. No serious judge who looks at the Swedish constitution believes that the allegations of restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms are correct. To be honest, Mr President, I believe that the Left Party also knows that. Instead, it wishes to use all means of delaying, making things more difficult and preventing. Everything that bears names like NATO and the United States works as – how should I put it, Mr President – a red curtain for the Left Party. And then we want to try to use constitutional arguments as well. That's a pity. It is precisely this kind of obstruction and legalistic ugliness that can be observed in the parliaments of other countries. It's not beautiful. Then there are the Swedish Democrats, Mr President. Six months ago it was opened to politically support a host country agreement. Then it was exercised against. Then came the announcement to form a pact with the Left Party to prevent and complicate, on weak constitutional grounds. And so I know the latest news from last night about voting against the host country agreement but still not joining the Left Party. With all due respect, this is the Swedish Parliament in an important matter and not a chocolate wheel at the fair where it can be number 3 one moment and number 7 the other. It is a total lack of uniformity and coherence. Mr President, I would like to It is bad that one new message has come up with the old one. It is bad that the Swedish Democrats are joining the Left Party and voting against the host country agreement. However, it is a good thing that at the last minute we should stop and avoid helping to put political cleavage on the matter. And it is good that the SD is nevertheless clearly unwilling to cooperate with or even approach NATO. For my part, I believe, of course, that security is being built in collaboration with other countries. I am convinced of the advantages of Swedish NATO membership, and I note that the Swedish Democrats, together with the Left Party, are the parties in the Swedish Parliament that are closest to each other in their view of NATO and lack of international cooperation and hence far from the Moderates and the rest of the Alliance. It goes without saying to me that safety is being built together with others! Safety is built together with others. In addition, the question arises as to how the Swedish Democrats see Finland already having a host country agreement with NATO. Should it not, based on the logic of the Swedish Democrats, be enough for Finland to cooperate with Sweden? Or is it that Finland realises precisely that we need to build security with more than one country? Mr President, I would like to Then there's the Green Party. It's a government-supporting party. One environmental party after another trumpets its opposition to the host country agreement at a debate place in the various newspapers of the country. With the help of arguments that the Minister of Defence in other contexts dismissed as ill-founded statements and pure legends of walking, Green MPs want to both stay and say no. Defence and security policy is something of a government's most important tasks to chisel and define. Here we have a government base that is eroding before our very eyes. The responsible minister who will try to convince the Swedish people has obviously failed to even bring the Members who make up this government's fragile parliamentary support, and let alone the budget-cooperative Left Party. Such is the resistance to the host country agreement. V says no with SD and parts of the MP government party. Thankfully, there is a clear majority with the Alliance's four parties as a safe and stable foundation. All in all, we have to ask ourselves who is benefiting from all the false myths about the host country agreement and NATO and the attempts to obstinate the case. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist himself asked the question in an interview in Dagens Nyheter in January: ..................................................... We must not be naive. There is a daily disinformation campaign against Sweden, and it is not difficult to point out the player who has the most to gain from a distorted debate on the host country agreement. Let me be very clear. Sweden has taken a stand. We are not neutral in the fight for peace and freedom. We are on the side of the rule of law, and we stand on the side of human rights in the constant fight against those who wish to restrict or violate international law and law – even here in our Baltic Sea region, where a new, deteriorating normal image of security policy has been established. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want a more effective defense. We want to strengthen our defence capabilities. The host country agreement contributes to this! What we are dealing with today is not NATO membership light or even accession to 25% or 30%. There is a fundamental difference between membership and partnership. The host country agreement is basically to provide a legal basis for continued enhanced cooperation. It's no more than that. But that's good. Work on establishing a road map towards Swedish NATO membership must continue. However, the agreement strengthens Sweden's ability to provide and receive assistance in the event of a crisis and war and simplifies the implementation of exercises together with NATO. This is also the basis for our Swedish defence and security policy, that is to say, to be able to provide support and to receive support. Since 2014, the security policy situation in our neighbourhood and Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea have been characterised by increasing tensions. Russian nuclear rhetoric has hardened, and the Swedish Security Service notes that Russia is trying to influence the debate on our country's security policy choices through public statements and social media. To meet the increased uncertainty, Sweden must cooperate more with other countries. Sweden already has in-depth cooperation with other countries. We have been working closely with Finland on defence policy since 2009, among other things. Basically, the host country agreement with NATO is not more controversial than the cooperation agreement with Finland. Mr President, I would like to The purpose of the current host country agreement with NATO is to build security in conjunction with others and improve our ability to provide and receive military aid in solidarity. All international military exercises require considerable administrative work. Issues such as insurance, customs and punishment must be regulated for every exercise. The host country agreement with NATO simplifies this process and allows the armed forces to spend more time and effort on the core: not bureaucracy but the exercises themselves. A well-functioning cooperation between the Swedish defence and NATO is also crucial for how well we can implement international peace-promoting efforts. The cooperation between countries in advanced crisis management operations rests on NATO's military technical standard. The enhanced cooperation with NATO as the host country agreement strengthens Swedish defence by making it easier to practice with a qualified partner. Mr President, I would like to Contrary to what NATO opponents often claim in the debate, the host country agreement is based on voluntaryity. This means that NATO does not have the right to station troops or nuclear weapons on Swedish territory with less than Sweden's consent. Norway, like Denmark, is proof that it is excellent to be in NATO without the need to have nuclear weapons on its territory. Moreover, it is worth recalling that it is individual countries that have nuclear weapons, not NATO as such. By strengthening Swedish defence capabilities and deepening Swedish defence and security cooperation, we can face an increasingly uncertain world and the increasing tensions in our neighbourhood. The host country agreement with NATO is an essential step to take. However, Sweden needs to move forward towards full Swedish NATO membership. This would seriously strengthen Sweden's security and our ability to provide and receive joint and several military assistance in the event of a crisis and war. Mr President, I would like to With those words, I am in favour of the proposal in the committee's report.
i-b8fca2160165a859-302	Mr President, I would like to Although I have a bad knee, I will try to lower myself to Hans Wallmark's level in the debate. Then I'll have reason to ask for a line. Yes, this agreement is debated and talked about, but it certainly is not the result of either the process or Hans Wallmark. In fact, it is we opponents and skeptics who have lifted it up so that at least there has been some kind of debate. In whose interest? asks Hans Wallmark and suggests treason by us who doubt the wisdom of a host country agreement that we mean increases the level of tension and the risk of war for Sweden. No serious assessors support our concerns as to whether this is really compatible with the Constitution, Mr Wallmark. In fact, we have consulted a number of international legal experts who all say about the same thing: yes, there are doubts already in what you can read but above all in what is going on. It is extremely difficult in the agreement to find out everything so m will become implications of it take. The problem with this unclear document is that this is the first and probably the last time the Swedish Parliament will have to deal with it, because the additions will apparently be classified. Hans Wallmark calls it obstruction and legalistic ugliness to try to use the instruments that democratic freedoms and rights give you. It's a little chilly. For the rest, I think there is an interesting history in this. I would like to say this: we do not see NATO as a red curtain. We're not American haters, as Hans Wallmark adopted last week. But we are also not naive about either NATO or the United States. I wonder what criticism Hans Wallmark has of directing the behaviour of the United States and NATO and war operations that have taken place in recent decades.
i-b8fca2160165a859-309	Mr. Talma n! The metaphore with the bad knee t tried Stig Henriksson already last week in an interpellation debate where we both participated. It has not improved, but now it is in any case reused. I also note the criticism of this government by the Budget Supporting Left Party. It's basically very interesting. As far as legalist criticism is concerned, one can at least conclude that the party that was possibly about to assist you in a pact for suspension seems to have changed its mind yesterday. There is reason to believe that good and legal arguments may have been behind this – it was realised that there is no basis for a suspension. In addition, the Law Council has already examined the host country agreement in the past and had no objection. Basically, I am in favour of membership. There is no doubt that Stig Henriksson and the Left Party are against. It's a good thing we have a clear line between us. One of the reasons why I think a Swedish NATO membership would be good, in addition to the fact that I believe that we can be involved in producing security and thus ultimately peace in the Baltic Sea region, is that we can also be involved in influencing decisions. Relations with NATO's 28 Member States – which, by the way, will be 29 this summer, when the Warsaw Summit opens up the Community to more – allow us to influence other countries like the United States.
i-b8fca2160165a859-315	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark did not have any examples of problems with NATO and US behaviour. That's what some people say. The Law Council has not reviewed the host country agreement. That's wrong. The Law Council has examined the four subsequent laws to be amended – the Traffic Damage Act and others. That's a completely different thing. The Law Council does not have a mandate to review the agreement itself. It's a big flaw. If there are good legal considerations that have caused SD to turn around or if it is that they want to make themselves government officials visvi Hans Wallmark's moderates, they will have to answer for themselves. But I find it remarkable. Look at the NATO track record on war operations – everything from the bombings in Serbia to the war in Libya and the war in Afghanistan! Has peace, tension, and happier people there resulted, or have there been just the refugee disasters from which we are now reaping the benefits? Then let us not forget that NATO's real commander-in-chief is not Jens Stoltenberg, but the President of the United States. It is interesting to note that Donald Trump is now leading the polls. I wonder if it doesn't give a little bit of a chill to imagine that it's an organization we're going to cooperate with ever closer. I could, if I had a few minutes or perhaps much longer, list all the sins that I think the USA and NATO have committed in order to create a little bit of a counter-image of the justified criticism that Russia repeatedly receives in this House for its crimes of international law. The fact that one side commits crimes makes in nte the other side angels– I think that's pretty obvious. Therefore, Swedish freedom of alliance – on paper and in reality – remains the most important security policy instrument we have.
i-b8fca2160165a859-321	Mr President, I would like to I know that Stig Henriksson is in many ways an honorary man. We feel very different, but I have no doubt about his underlying purposes and will not question them. But, Mr President, the image painted by the United States and the Russian Federation as just as good cabbage drinkers is precisely the image that Moscow wants brought out in Sweden and the West. That's why it's wrong. Again, I do not question the background or the purposes, but I would warn against using that kind of argument. This host country agreement is a legal basis. It consists of different things that regulate customs, compensation and taxes when you bring in and carry out. That is what is at the heart of the matter. What Henriksson and some other opponents paint is something immensely larger that is not in place. I would therefore like to emphasise once again that this is not a membership light. This is not a 25% accession to NATO. This is something else to regulate and make it easier for Sweden to provide support and receive support. Then there is a distance between us, not only physically in this House but also between our two parties. Henriksson is against a Swedish NATO membership. I'm in favour. But this is by no means a substitute for or an alternative to membership. On the other hand, it is good in itself. That's why I'm in favour of it. I believe, Mr President, that we will continue to debate a Swedish NATO membership, and in that debate it is easy to believe that Mr Henriksson and I will end up on different sides.
i-b8fca2160165a859-326	Mr President, I would like to Swedish military alliance freedom is more important than it has been for a long time. At a time when tensions in Europe are increasing drastically, Sweden as a military non-alignment nation is helping to counter increased military escalation and instability. Over the past year, several voices have been raised in favour of membership of the NATO military alliance. That would be the wrong way to go. Sweden will work closely with other countries to promote peace and freedom, but we are and will remain militaryly non-aligned. Clarity and long-termness must be the guiding principles of Sweden's security policy. This is how we best promote peace, security and stability in our neighbourhood. Active and responsible foreign policy, our membership of the European Union, participation in international cooperation and our own credible defence capabilities are our most important tools for promoting our own sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. With this strategy, we make the best contribution to long-term stability in our part of Europe. Mr President, I would like to Our military freedom of alliance gives us freedom of action to act in any given situation in the best interests of tension and peaceful development. It also contributes to our own safety. In order to safeguard our own defence capabilities and our ability to contribute effectively in international peace-promoting efforts, it is important that we practice and cooperate with others. This is why the government is primarily developing our defence cooperation with Finland. We also collaborate in the Nordic region, around the Baltic Sea, with NATO's Partnership for Peace, with the USA and with a variety of other countries and organisations. Developments since the end of the Cold War have resulted in NATO's military technical standards being the basis for cooperation between countries in the field of advanced exercises. The fact that, through participation in such exercises, we ensure that our defence functions well together with NATO's systems and structures is thus a practical prerequisite for us to have effective cooperation in the EU's or UN's peace-promoting efforts in various crisis areas. Mr President, I would like to Every international military exercise in Sweden is preceded by extensive legal preparatory work to deal with issues such as customs, insurance, protection, penalties and taxes for partners from other participating countries. In order to simplify and streamline this process, Sweden has signed a host country support agreement with NATO. What, then, is host country support? Well, it is a summary concept of the support given by a State to states participating in, for example, an exercise in the host country. This is done after an invitation – only after an invitation – from the host country. Host country support requires agreements that regulate the relationship between the actors. Preparations are facilitated by general memoranda of understanding such as this agreement. These are horizontal framework agreements with basic principles. But even after such a framework agreement has been concluded, each individual activity, such as an exercise, must always continue to sign agreements within the framework of the wider agreements. The host country support agreement is therefore not an agreement that makes Sweden a host country. Host country we have been in the past, when other countries have participated in exercises with us, and host country we will also be in the future, even if we do not have a host country support agreement. An agreement on host country support only means that after we have taken a national decision to invite to an exercise and Sweden is thus a host country, we have a framework agreement that regulates what type of support a participating country can expect. The agreement aims to regulate in advance situations that may arise when military personnel are involved and military equipment is used in an activity or exercise, for example in the case of an accident or in the case of a country having jurisdiction if a legal problem arises in the context of an exercise. I would like to emphasise that it is still the government that decides whether foreign troops should be invited to Sweden and which equipment may be introduced. None of what is happening under the host country agreement can be done on any basis other than through a Swedish invitation from the government. The freedom of military alliance and its principles are not disturbed in any sense or in any way. An agreement on host country support will also not affect the fact that it is not or will not be allowed to introduce nuclear weapons into Swedish territory. For decades, Sweden has marked this for the outside world. The Swedish position not to acquire nuclear weapons and not to allow such weapons to be placed on Swedish territory or carried by visiting forces has been unambiguously conveyed in different contexts and forums, for example through speeches at the UN General Assembly. A visiting state is legally obliged to comply with the conditions that Sweden lays down for the visit. This follows, among other things, from the principle of international sovereignty. This is also very clear in the proposal that the Riksdag now has to take a position on. Mr President, I would like to We are now intensifying the work for a world free from nuclear weapons. The government has recently commissioned the re-established International Law and Disarmament Delegation to test a Swedish accession to the so-called humanitarian pledge – an alliance of countries working for an international ban on nuclear weapons. The government is also making a major effort at peace diplomacy to further strengthen Sweden's efforts to prevent and curb conflicts. This is a long-term effort to set up a team of specialised diplomats focusing on conflict resolution and mediation. The aim is for Sweden to strengthen its profile in terms of conflict prevention, which is part of the government's feminist foreign policy. Today's troubled world needs more, not fewer, governments who dare to formulate visions of peace, security and international disarmament. This is one of the many reasons why the Green Party is behind the government's combined defence, security and foreign policy. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-b8fca2160165a859-342	Mr President, I would like to Mr Dalunde does not have to convince me of the value and importance of agreeing to the committee's proposal for a decision on the adoption of the host country agreement with NATO. On the other hand, he seems to have to convince his own party mates. This morning, in the News of Today, we saw a debate article on the importance and value of constitutional blunders in order to try to stay on the matter. It was signed by Members of Parliament Jabar Amin, Annika Lillemet, Valter Mutt and Carl Schlyter, all from the Environmental Party. In the past, Mr Lindholm has also expressed his strong criticism of the host country agreement. There are five members of parliament from the environment. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Green Green Group here in the Swedish Parliament has 25 members. This means that 20 percent of the Green Group is now actively arguing against what is the government's position. Is that reasonable? What does this say about Parliament's already very weak government base? In addition, there is the Left Party, which is openly opposed to the host country agreement and which wishes to prevent and make more difficult by any means available. What does this say about the Swedish Government on one of the most important issues, namely defence and security policy? Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, it would be interesting to hear Mr Dalunde reflect a little on the arguments put forward by Green Members against the host country agreement. And in the head you can then hear the sound of the Secretary of Defense, who in a DN interview says: When I see all the wrong statements on this matter, I wonder in whose interest this constant misinformation lies. Does Jakop Dalunde want to develop the government's overall policy in this area?
i-b8fca2160165a859-348	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. I can say this: It is no secret that if the Green Party had gained its own majority in a parliamentary election and formed its own ill-green government, it might not have been at the top of our list of reforms, as we see for Sweden, to produce such an agreement. Having said that, I would like to point out that I really see merit from the fact that the Swedish defence and security policy is based on a broad foundation in the Swedish Parliament and that there is broad support behind it. The defence committee landed two years ago in Sweden having such an agreement, and there was broad support for the conclusions of the Defence Committee's report. Against this background, my party has chosen, by decision of the parliamentary group and the party board, to support Sweden having such an agreement. We see merit in that defence and security policy has broad support in the Swedish parliament.
i-b8fca2160165a859-350	Mr President, I would like to Jakop Dalunde is absolutely right. The defence committee wrote it in 2014 in broad agreement. In the specific opinions and reservations that existed, I do not think that there was any party – then I have included the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party – who argued against the host country agreements. Eight parties supported it, as Mr Dalunde has said. Then my question to Jakop Dalunde is: Has Jabar Amin, Annika Lillemet, Valter Mutt, Carl Schlyter and Jan Lindholm not read it? Hasn't 20% of the Green Group here in Parliament read it? Mr President, I would like to It is precisely defence and security policy that is the foundation of a government. It is quite remarkable, then, that the already very weak parliamentary basis on which the government rests is even weaker when it falls out of perhaps 20% of the Green Group in this way. I want to make it very clear that defence and security policy is more important than having day quotations on it. We have also seen this now in the post-defence campaign of these days about whether or not it should be a declaration of rest. My question is: why have Jakop Dalunde and Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist failed to convince 20% of the Green Parliamentary Group?
i-b8fca2160165a859-353	Mr President, I would like to The result of the 2014 elections was a very difficult parliamentary situation. In this situation, I think that Minister Hultqvist acted very resolutely. He invited wide-ranging talks to ensure that defence and security policy would have broad support in the Swedish parliament. We sat in long negotiations on this – Mr Wallmark was involved in those talks. I feel a great pride. Although I and my party may not think that every single formulation in the bill that was finally landed in is the absolute best, I attach great value to the fact that, in this difficult parliamentary situation, we managed to collect 76% of the Swedish parliament behind our defence and security policy. That is also the reason for our position.
i-b8fca2160165a859-355	Mr President, I would like to I've got a little idea. On August 28, 2014, Åsa Romson wrote that the Green Party was very concerned about the discussion of the host country agreement. Now the Green Party, as a party, is, as is well known, in practice for the host country agreement. I would like to stress that I do not find it a shame to change my mind. If you get new information and better signals and if the world changes, you should of course change. I would remind you that Mr Thage G. Peterson, who was the Socialist Minister for Defence when we entered the Partnership for Peace, today says that he would never have advocated membership if he had known about the developments. For he has seen what has happened. George F. Kennan, one of the greatest cold warriors, perhaps one of the coldest, has turned to view the enlargement of NATO. He believed that an expanding NATO would be the most fatal mistake in American politics after the Cold War. He said that before enlargement. The former US Secretary of Defence regrets in his memoirs the extension of NATO to the east, with the expected reactions and the increasingly colder war. So it is no shame to change your mind. But I have a question. Unity is fun, and unity is, of course, a good thing. But what has led the Green Party to release not only the mouthpiece but also its great concerns about the host country agreement? I don't want to believe it's government posts in itself. There must be some analysis behind this, which means that you are now in favour of the host country agreement that caused great concern less than two years ago. What analysis is behind this?
i-b8fca2160165a859-358	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the analysis behind the decision that Sweden should have such an agreement and the reasoning surrounding it was a discussion that took place in the Swedish Defence Committee. It was there that they had a comprehensive and long process with many discussions, and experts were involved. As part of this work, a recommendation was made that Sweden should have such an agreement. I would say that it was an important foundation in the preconditions for us to have an orientation proposal for the next five years' defence and security policy that there was a broad majority behind this, and a prerequisite for that was the implementation of the content of the Defence Committee's report. That is the background to the Green Party's support for the bill.
i-b8fca2160165a859-360	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm really more amazed. Were the concerns that Åsa Romson, then spokesperson, raised just before the 2014 election just games for the gallery ahead of the election? I wonder why she could not even then, given the Defence Committee's report, say: Yes, but we are in favour of this. We've seen the light.
i-b8fca2160165a859-361	Mr President, I would like to It may be strange for some parties to reason that way. But for me it is like this: In the election movement, you tell voters how you would like to change the world from your own perspective. After the elections, responsibility has to be taken for the actual consequences of the parliamentary situation. I am proud that the Green Party in that situation chose to take responsibility. Even if we do not get our policy through in every area of the matter, we chose to step into the government to take responsibility. We believe that the alternative to doing so would have been much worse. That is why I am proud that we have been involved in taking responsibility in this difficult situation, even if it means that we do not get our policies through in all areas.
i-b8fca2160165a859-363	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the bourgeois parties advocate this agreement does not surprise me. However, I am surprised that the Social Democrats are backing it up. I am even more surprised that the Green Party is doing so. But the most surprised must still be Jakop Dalundes's own party comrades around the country. At the beginning of the agreement, it says that the agreement is good in peacetime, crisis and emergency as well as conflict, including the grouping of transport in support of NATO. Does Jakop Dalunde and the Green Party really believe that if NATO is in a conflict situation and asks Sweden to use this agreement, Sweden will say that it is not right now – especially if we have a bourgeois government, where all parties are in favour of NATO membership and are positiv to NATO? If it is the case that a conflict situation arises and NATO ends up in a conflict, does Jakop Dalunde not understand that NATO forces on Swedish territory expose Sweden and the Swedish people to enormous risks? Does Mr Dalunde then think that the party with which NATO is in conflict will say that Sweden is not attacking us? We do not oppose Sweden, because you are non-aligned. Perhaps you have NATO units there that are in danger of hitting us, but Sweden is non-aligned, so we are not fighting you. Of course, it is the case that we will fight the NATO forces that exist on Swedish territory, and so we have dragged Sweden and the Swedish people into war and conflict. Furthermore, there is nothing to prevent an attacker from attacking Swedish territory with nuclear weapons, and I do not think that is in the interests of the Green Party. What analysis does Jakop Dalunde actually make of this agreement? I'd like to know. What is it you do for security policy analysis if you do not understand that here Sweden and the Swedish people are exposed to enormous risks?
i-b8fca2160165a859-368	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. This agreement in itself does not in any way affect the decision-making processes for inviting another country to Sweden – in no way. Yes, it simplifies the administrative and legal processes following such a decision, but it does not affect how such a decision would take place. In the scenario that the Member of the South paints, that such a question would come in the event of a crisis, there is every political opportunity in the world to take the decision that the Member of the South is afraid of even without such an agreement. This agreement does not change the decision-making process in any way, and therefore this agreement does not alter the Swedish military alliance freedom in any way.
i-b8fca2160165a859-370	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the scenario I am painting is entirely realistic. That may well happen. This agreement is not one-sided so that it is Sweden that says to NATO every time: you can come here. Sure, it says that a national decision should be made, but it can also be made through representatives and so on. The parliament has no such possibility to influence it, but it can be the government, for example a bourgeois minority government where everyone is a NATO advocate, who makes these decisions, or representatives appointed by the government. In peacetime, which we usually talk about when we talk about this agreement, it is perhaps great to think about being together. But this also concerns conflict. Once an agreement is in place and NATO in a conflict situation says that you want to use the agreement that has been signed with Sweden, then I do not think that Sweden should say that they must not come here. Does Jakop Dalunde really think that Sweden will resist NATO in such a situation? No, it will not do that, but it will accept NATO setting up its bases, transporting troops through Sweden and so on, and once NATO units are present on Swedish territory, an attacker will also attack these units to fight them. It is out of the question that something else should happen. It is out of the question that an attacker should say: No, that's right! Sweden is non-aligned, so we are not fighting NATO forces on your territory but only when they leave it. This shows once again that there is a lack of analytical ability. There has been no analysis or impact assessment whatsoever in this agreement, and no party except the Swedish Democrats and possibly the Left Party, which also recognizes the seriousness of this, seems to have done so. I am surprised that you in the Green Party are prepared to bring nuclear weapons here as well. What would that control look like? A) Tactical reasons do not tell NATO where they place different types of weapons. What's this control gonna look like, Jakop Dalunde? How will Sweden check that NATO does not place nuclear weapons on Swedish territory when they do not reveal what they are doing? The sharper the situation, the less likely they will be to tell.
i-b8fca2160165a859-377	Mr President, I would like to All aspects of the problem contained in this scenario exist with or without an agreement between Sweden and NATO on host country support. Sweden has received exercises before and will receive exercises in the future, with or without such an agreement. The inspection law referred to does not exist at present, with or without such an agreement. The scenario of what would happen in a bourgeois government should such a question arise exists with or without such an agreement. If Mr Söder is concerned about such work, I might rather think that one should not want a bourgeois government.
i-b8fca2160165a859-380	Mr President, I would like to Last Friday I was in Tbilisi, Georgia, at a barbed wire fence, where I met an 83-year-old man who one morning had awakened and discovered that his chips had disappeared. Someone had taken over with Russian help. In Georgia, broad political discussions are being held on membership of NATO. It is hoped and desired – all but the Russian-inspired parties. And they exist. It's a small country. Citizens have experienced the occupation of 20% of their territory. Around 300 000 citizens have been displaced internally in the country. The government that now exists is clearly seeking to speak with Russia and Russia's leadership. But no one listens. Three weeks ago new barbed wire was rolled out, and a village was divided. Last summer, 105 villages were suddenly no longer part of Georgia but occupied land. This summer, as by chance, South Ossetia is planning for a new referendum à la Crimea to join Russia. I hear the debate on NATO enlargement in this House. But I think we should focus more on what is really happening and which is creating problems for people on our continent, namely Russia's enlargement, how to crawl into new ground and new areas. It sounds like NATO membership is something that is being imposed on someone. I haven't heard anyone who's felt that way. Montenegro is pushing strongly to become the 29th member and is now to become a member. Georgia is very disappointed not to have that opportunity now in Warsaw. They seek security because they meet their citizens who say: How far will Russia go and take our villages, our agricultural land? When are you going to stop? They feel that the threshold does not exist. The threshold is missing, and they are a small country. Norway, Denmark and Iceland are NATO members. Finland has a host country agreement without a decision in its parliament. This is already the case, because they already had the legislation in place that we now have to adjust. It's about solidarity. It is about not just talking about solidarity but actually being able to stand up if something happens. It's not about attacking. It is about defending and trying to build security together with others, just as this House has spoken in broad agreement in the past. When Sweden says, as we have done in broad agreement so far, that we are in solidarity with our neighbours if anything happens, I hope we mean it. However, when I hear this debate, I think there is cause for doubt in some places. Doubts also make our neighbors. They say: Yes, you say solidarity in fine speeches to us, but why do you not want to guarantee it? Our neighbours – all except Finland – are members of NATO. They see Sweden as the weak link, a thresholdless link that threatens their security. For our part, on the part of the Center Party, we have therefore taken a stand. We want to launch a NATO membership process with Finland. We have done so with some reservations, which also Norway and Denmark have. Mr President, I would like to The decision that I hope we are going to take today and the debate this is about does not concern membership, however I would have liked it to have been a matter of decision. This is not about NATO membership. It is about a host country agreement and about getting order in how we work with each other, much as we have already adopted in terms of military cooperation. I hear in the debate, Mr President, about the risk of us getting involved in war. Yes, but it will not be Norway that pulls us in, but it will be based on whether Russia chooses to continue its expansionism. Then we will be suspended, whether we have our own defence capabilities and capabilities, training, host country agreements or anything else. Because we are where we are in the world. Sweden is a member of the European Union, and we have thereby assumed joint and several responsibility for our fellow citizens. It is said that if we adopt the host country agreement, there would be problems for our peace efforts and our ability to operate. I wish more people had come to our seminar yesterday, when we had invited Norway to discuss how to work more actively for peace as a member of NATO. None of those who participated there had ever heard a question about NATO membership in terms of their ability to be a player in conflict to resolve and mediate. Mr President, I would like to It's a ghost debate that some people are trying to run. Mr President, if I had not suspected that I would be cleaved, I would almost have thought of wearing a ghost suit to scare a little more. That is precisely what you try to do when you paint everything possible with the host country agreement. Freedom of the Alliance is not affected, and nuclear issues are not affected. As I said, it is about raising thresholds and strengthening our ability to see and receive help. We will do that with this agreement. My colleague Daniel Bäckström will go into the defence perspective in this. Minority boarding, I hope it won't be. It is an amazing idea to refer to cap. 2, which is about freedom. This is about defending Swedish interests and Swedish citizens' opportunities to express themselves and be free. If it's someone who's threatening freedom and hijacking. 2 it is the Russian aggression and the path that Russia has chosen. Mr President, I would like to When we talk about legislation, I will only briefly touch on the traffic damage law. Today, our Road Traffic Damage Act states that the government can provide for exemptions from motor insurance obligations in respect of... motor-powered vehicles belonging to certain foreign states. Furthermore, Mr President, with the legislative proposal that is now being put forward, it says: a NATO headquarters which is covered by agreements in force in relation to Sweden. With regard to proposals to amend the Protection Act, it is said today that a foreign state's military force in the framework of international cooperation temporarily carries out exercises here in the country is covered. Now we are adding: and areas where a NATO headquarters or military force of a foreign state carries out... activities. To my mind, this does not sound like a major legislative revolution that brings us into NATO membership. Mr President, I would like to It is good with a broad majority. I support the proposal for a host country agreement, for continued cooperation with NATO, for Swedish security and for safeguarding citizens' freedom and protection in the future. I call for the reservations to be rejected, including the suspension request.
i-b8fca2160165a859-401	Mr President, I would like to I can tell Kerstin Lundgren: There's no need for a ghost costume – it's scary enough anyway. I am not referring, of course, to Kerstin Lundgren, but to the host country agreement. Kerstin Lundgren takes the move in Georgia. I can agree so far that it was probably an unequivocal mistake for Georgia to attack on 8 August 2008, because it gave the Putin regime the chance to fight back, with all the consequences it has had. You would have been careful about that. But then we have the connection that I keep calling for. Does this mean that Sweden may be the next target, seriously? Are there not quite a few historical and other relevant parameters missing in that comparison to make it interesting at all to discuss Georgia when we are discussing a host country agreement with NATO? I have another idea. It is often called – almost like a mantra – that security we build together. That sounds sweet to me. It is just that now this means that we are cooperating with NATO or perhaps even becoming members. In the past there was the realization, even in the Center Party, that this meant mutual security. Where has that insight gone?
i-b8fca2160165a859-406	Mr President, I would like to Talking with Stig Henriksson is always exciting. It is a picture of a party that I thought used solidarity as an important word of value. I am a little curious to hear, Mr President, whether Stig Henriksson's solidarity only extends to May 1st and to Sweden. Is Stig Henriksson prepared to be guaranteed solidarity if the Baltics and our neighbours in the Nordic countries are threatened? Or is Stig Henriksson's main track to keep Sweden completely out and that Sweden should try to hide, in order to seek protection in this way? Mr President, I would like to I was a little surprised. Does Stig Henriksson mean that Georgia would not try to defend its territory? How far should you go? Is Georgia to become part of Russia as well? There are those who want to. There are those who salute Stalin, and there are those who hope to be able to join Russia again. The so-called peacekeepers, the small green men, who appeared in Crimea and who were visible and visible on Georgia's territory, do not listen to Stig Henriksson's words. If you have the opportunity and think that you should speak, Stig Henriksson, why do you not reach out?
i-b8fca2160165a859-410	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, it is an undisputed fact that the war in Georgia began with the attack of Georgia on August 8, 2008. It gave the Putin regime the chance to commit with its auxiliary forces, support troops and representatives the wrongs they have committed. No, for me solidarity is not actually to wage war. Solidarity is something quite different. I believe, for example, that the Baltics, with their historical experience and Russian-speaking minorities, may have reasons for concern. I don't deny that. That is why we should offer the Baltics support if they are to be put under pressure. On the other hand, it is naive to think that we could provide military support. We don't have that ability. I think we should stop fooling ourselves and even the balts. Besides, I don't even understand why that would be necessary. The Baltics have solved all their problems; they are part of NATO. That is what could solve all our problems. Then it's strange that it hasn't solved their problems. There are many other ways. There are many more keys on the piano and tools in the toolbox than military support to provide support and help and so on. The debate is one-sided. The Finnish government is much clearer. They say: No, you cannot count on military support if you are attacked. We will support you in other ways. But we have 5 million inhabitants and a long land border to defend. We have no weapons or people to spare. That's what I call clarity. As I said, there are other tools in the box.
i-b8fca2160165a859-416	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there are, of course, other ways to provide support and assistance to our Baltic neighbours than to go to war. I can agree with that. We certainly do not want to see a war. We want to dismantle nuclear weapons. We want to see peaceful development. But our assessment is that in order to get there we must raise the thresholds and make the war more expensive, if anyone would try to go that way. It depends on Russia's actions. We hope to see another development. But we're not there. Then we must strengthen and not be the weak link for our Baltic neighbours. We are not helping our Baltic neighbours in any alternative way right now. If we do not want a host country agreement that shows that we can at least participate, and if we do not become NATO members, then we are the weak link. Then you invite the thief – as it is called. We're not gonna do that. We shall strengthen each other by being clear in our security policy. We shall strengthen each other by having higher thresholds and thus the ability and capacity to respond and protect our freedoms and values. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party and also the Swedish Democrats represent a security risk for Sweden's citizens when they act as they do.
i-b8fca2160165a859-419	Mr President, I would like to We are living in a very dangerous time. Many scholars in Russian politics believe that Russia is now preparing for war. You reset your finances, you fill up your stores and you do your mobilization exercises. A few months ago President Putin was asked on Russian television whether the war can be avoided. It was against the background of the deteriorating world situation. He replied: I hope so. I think we all hope so. Today, however, is a good day. Today, Swedish national security is increasing, as Parliament will in all likelihood adopt the legislative proposals arising from the so-called host country agreement. With this agreement, Sweden will have a better opportunity to get help from NATO in the event of a crisis and in the event of war. However, it is important to emphasise that NATO has no obligation to defend those who are not members of the Alliance. The debate has so far shifted between two fundamental points of view. One, presented by social democrats and environmentalists, is that this is about technicalities. That's true in its own way. When I hear Kerstin Lundgren quoting legal clauses on motor insurance issues, I realise that there is a lot of truth in that statement. We also have an opposition, consisting of Swedish democrats and left-wing parties, which believes that this is a sloping plan on the way to membership of NATO. Even that side has points in its argumentation. We can look back to a few years when Sweden has become a member of the Partnership for Peace and when we have come to be a member of the NATO rapid reaction force, the NRF. We now belong to the Enhanced Opportunity Programmes, which is the most exclusive partnership in NATO. And today we are about to adjust our legislation to the host country agreement. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that all these steps are linked to signal effects of a security policy nature. It is my opinion that it has been quite a long time since Swedish military alliance freedom had real credibility. I can only say that the current government is navigating Sweden into a security policy no man's country. On the one hand, we do not have the credibility of the freedom of alliance. On the other hand, we lack the defence guarantees that accompany NATO membership. It does not surprise me in any way that the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats completely reject any thought of the agreement that is now to be concluded. Both parties are completely isolationist. They are happy and long engaged in navel-watching. Since entering the Swedish Parliament, the Swedish Democrats have said no to the EU, no to the euro and no to the Nordic Battlegroup. In this case, the justification was that Nordic Battlegrou p was not sufficiently Nordic. It contained Baltic and Irish elements. That is why they chose not to do so. They also say no to international exercises for Swedish armed forces abroad. The Left Party has been in the Swedish Parliament for much longer. Thus, their list of 'no' thanks to international cooperation is infinitely longer. It is not just about European cooperation. It is about everything from saying no to membership of the OECD to even abstaining from membership of the Nordic Council. Mr President, I would like to It is quite obvious that my old French teacher said: Les extrêmes se touchent– the extremes are so close that they even touch each other. The Left Party has submitted a written motion for a stay of office. The basis for the application for a stay is that our civil liberties, namely personal freedom of movement under Chapter 2. in the form of government, will be curtailed by the host country agreement. I would like to remind you that it is very small parts of the Swedish territory that consist of military training areas. Unfortunately, the activity in these training areas is not very impressive. The only time you can think that NATO units on a larger scale will appear on Swedish territory is if the crisis or war is here. Then, Mr President, there is no better protection for Swedish constitutional civil liberties than NATO being present on Swedish soil. I note, like Mr Wallmark, that the Left Party is part of the government base. I find it surprising that the government and Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist have not caught the Left Party in this process at a very early stage. I say, on the basis of Göran Persson's old statement, that security policy is at the heart of every government. Against this background, I claim that it has been unmanageable for the government not to be able to capture the Left Party and obviously not all environmental parties. In recent days, the Swedish democrats have broken record in political violence. Last autumn we received a committee motion that was about supporting a host country agreement for Sweden. Now, on the basis of the bill, the same committee is exercising that we should not have a host country agreement. Last Sunday, defence-political spokesperson Mikael Jansson said that the Left Party's declaration of rest will be followed. Two days later Jimmie Åkesson says the opposite. I can only say that the strategy of the Swedish democrats seems crystal clear: If you can't convince the enemy, confuse hem. As I said, the host country agreement does not mean membership. It's an opportunity for help. At the same time, Mr President, I would like to point out that this agreement considerably shortens the take-off of NATO accession as a full member. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-b8fca2160165a859-437	Mr President, I would like to I will make a few points. Allan Widman began his speech by saying that Russia is preparing for war. I think that's absolutely true. Surely Sweden does, too? That is why, among other things, we have a defence force and are going to restore total defence? Maybe that's why it's not so sensational. I hope the Swedish Armed Forces are not just preparing for mushroom picking and other peaceful activities. It is true and worthy of criticism that Russia has quadrupled its military spending in the 21st century. It may be a dream for Allan Widman, but a nightmare for some of us. On the other hand, the debate may also point out that between 1991 and 2000, from the collapse of the Soviet Union to the year 2000, Russia's military expenditure fell by astounding 93%, according to Sipri. It was during the so-called defrosting period. When talking about a quadruple from that level, perhaps you should include both of these images to see the relationship. Russia's military budget, as I said, is 10 percent of the US's and a little less than Saudi Arabia's share of world armament. It's bad enough, but proportionally rather little. I don't want to discuss technicalities. I want to stay on the sloping plane instead. It's probably hard to keep your balance there. I think Allan Widman is giving you the correct information. All the steps are linked to signal effects, and it has been a long time since we had a really credible freedom of alliance. But is it not a concern that 200 years of alliance freedom kind of slips away without us even deciding on it? It's just a little puddle. I think that is correct observation but the wrong conclusion. I'll tell Allan Widman that we're often against things. I'd like to change that. But that is often the case when you react to others'suggestions and do not like them. But that's what we're gonna try to work out as much as possible. On the other hand, we are not isolationist. It's rude to say that. Our international solidarity is not in combat groups and military alliances; it takes place between people, in the case of refugee reception, etc.
i-b8fca2160165a859-445	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson now attracts me with a quadrupling of the Swedish defence grant. Let me say that at their country meeting in November, the Liberals decided that defence appropriations must be at least 2% of GDP in the long term. It's just a doubling, but we can start at that end. Then Stig Henriksson has expositions about Russia's armaments rate and how much Russia divides for defence resources. It is true that Russia is far from being able, for example, to the United States and the US defence economy. But what Stig Henriksson fails to consider is that the Russian weapons are not under democratic control. We have a predictability and a whim that has been demonstrated a number of times in recent years. I think that Kerstin Lundgren made a very good list historically when she pointed to both Georgia and Ukraine. It is this democratic deficit in Russia that, in conjunction with the increase in military resources, makes me deeply concerned. Then Stig Henriksson says: Are we really going to throw 200 years of neutrality overboard? Mr President, I would like to Then it is my opinion that neutrality for Sweden has worked only when we have thumbed it. We all remember the temporary traffic through Sweden, when German units crossed through our country. We all remember the post-war balt. When we are under pressure, we have never acted neutrally, and it is not morally honorable to do so when abuse is committed against people and against international law. Unfortunately, that is what Russia is doing.
i-b8fca2160165a859-450	Mr President, I would like to I agree in many respects that Russia violates human rights, particularly internally, but also commits crimes of international law. I do not understand why it can be so difficult to recognise the international crime of the United States and NATO. Why is it so impossible to have a nuanced view? It doesn't mean at all, as someone has suggested, that it is some kalesupar theory – where the matter should be judged by its species. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the United States' involvement in war operations, coup d'état and so on is a track record that far exceeds Russia's successes in that area. This is not a defence of what has prevariately been said, but merely as a statement purely numerically. For example, the United States is said to have 1,000 military bases around the world. Russia has two, and none of them are in Mexico, Canada or even Cuba – this is about possibly feeling threatened. I know that in Cardiff in 2014 NATO said that the share of all countries in GDP going towards defence expenditure should be increased to 2%. As by chance, the Liberals have adopted the same goal. I find that interesting. For those who wonder, it can be said that this means that the Liberals and NATO believe that in principle we should double our military expenditure by another SEK 45 000 million per year. I'm not supposed to be so invincible that I'm beginning to discuss where this money is going to be taken. But I understand that it will dig deep holes in many of the welfare programs that we have. One might wonder whether it increases or reduces Sweden's security to invest unilaterally in military defence. I am surprised that Allan Widman, who is a wise person and an experienced defence policy, so rarely mentions the other security policy instruments or the other security policy threats – climate change and so on – which are not just something that might happen to us but which are already here. At some point, one must surely raise one's eyes a little and see that there are many areas that we need to work on to strengthen our security.
i-b8fca2160165a859-455	Mr President, I would like to There are many other means of maintaining peace and stability – diplomatic, political, economic and perhaps even social. The problem, Stig Henriksson, is only when a party to such communications does not listen clearly and does not participate in a mutual dialogue. Unfortunately, Russia is having a hard time with that. Just a few weeks ago, I had lunch with a chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Russian Federation. I note that it is impossible to reach leading Russian politicians. They do not listen at all to the messages that we market. Stig Henriksson gives a long list of the abuses that NATO has committed. Let me make it clear: both the operation in Libya and that in Afghanistan have taken place following decisions sanctioned by the UN. The United Nations has left Sweden to participate in these operations, and so have Sweden and NATO. With regard to the operations in Kosovo and Serbia in the 1990s, it is correct that they were not sanctioned by the UN. I do not know if it is Stig Henriksson's view that Milo š evi ć would have had to continue to do what he did in Kosovo or whether he needed to be stopped. As far as Libya is concerned, I also believe that the Left Party supported the Swedish effort there in at least one of the decisions. I must object to Stig Henriksson's rhetoric. He refers to a number of American politicians who say that it was wrong to extend NATO. NATO's enlargement is not the result of what other countries decide. It is the result of free and independent countries making their own security policy choices. I hope that there is also the power to do so in this country.
i-b8fca2160165a859-461	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to comment on Allan Widman's preposterous claim that we should be isolationist. I do not know if Allan Widman missed what I said in my speech, but we are, for example, strong supporters of a defence alliance with Finland. We want to deepen cooperation within Nordefco, and we are in favour of international peace operations, particularly under the auspices of the United Nations. We are in favour of the Swedish defence industry's cooperation also with countries outside the EU, such as Brazil and India. What we are opposed to is a Swedish NATO membership. I am surprised by the complete lack of analytical ability shown by Allan Widman and the bourgeois parties in terms of security policy assessments. I get it when Allan Widman says that there is no better protection than NATO being here in the event of conflict. It is true that NATO, whether a country is a member or not, assumes that it itself will take the first hit. Should we join NATO, NATO assumes that Sweden will take the first hit. NATO would then come to the rescue. I am not really surprised by the lack of analytical ability, for this was demonstrated even during the eight years of government. There was a complete lack of analytical ability when the Swedish Armed Forces were dismantled and the security policy situation in our neighbourhood was stable. It shows that you have no analytical ability. As I said to Mr Dalunde, it must be understood that we are drawing a threat picture if a NATO unit is in Swedish territory and NATO is in conflict. We are not attacking you in Sweden, because you are non-aligned, but of course NATO units will be dismantled on Swedish territory. We are not isolationist, but we protect Sweden and the Swedish people.
i-b8fca2160165a859-466	Mr President, I would like to I maintain that the Swedish Democrats are isolationists. It is not only evident when you discuss defence and security issues, but it is evident in all policy areas. I had the privilege of leading the work of the EU Board for a few years during the last term of office, and I can see that Björn Söder's party colleagues almost always find the Left Party on the issues of European cooperation. It is exactly the same with regard to NATO. Björn Söder is right in saying that every country – including NATO – must itself take the first hit. On the first day of war, all countries will be on their own. That is why it is important for us Liberals now to try to contribute to the increase in the Swedish defence budget and to the restoration of a robust defence capability in our country. It is also, of course, the case that when you go into collective security cooperation, you cannot just live on the other side of the table. You have to contribute yourself, which is why it is important not to choose NATO or higher Swedish defence expenditure, but to choose both. Then you raise the threshold a lot. Yes, Björn Söder, it is – I think Russia has already included Sweden on the NATO side. The problem is that this has happened without NATO having any defence guarantees, in the absence of membership. It is true that Sweden will appear to be more controversial when we become members of NATO, if we are. But it is my assessment, Mr President, that Russia does not currently respect political and diplomatic communication and soft means. Right now, Russia despises the lack of hardness and defence capacity. It is important for us to cooperate.
i-b8fca2160165a859-469	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry to say that, but Allan Widman lacks credibility when he talks about a strong defence capability. Allan Widman also represented the Liberals during the previous and previous term of office – for eight years when the Swedish defence capabilities were dismantled. To suddenly turn around in the spring of 2014, when you see that the world has changed drastically, is not serious. It shows once again the lack of analytical ability. We were already standing in the speaker's chair after the 2010 elections and warned that the security policy situation could swing rapidly in our neighbourhood and that a lot of funding must therefore be made available to the Swedish Armed Forces so that defence capabilities can be raised. That's what you were laughing at. You said it was stable. Your Minister for Defence stood at the National Defence Conference in 2014 and said that it remains stable in our immediate region, despite Russia having completed its largest military exercise since the fall of the Soviet Union. Despite burning protests at the Majdan Square in Kiev, this analysis was made. It's not serious, and Allan Widman was a representative of that government as well. Is it really Allan Widman's assessment that the geopolitical stability we have enjoyed in the immediate region because we have been outside NATO will continue if we become members of NATO? Does Allan Widman really believe that Swedish NATO membership, which may result in Finnish NATO membership, will not affect the stability we have here and will not lead to backlashes from other countries? Does Allan Widman really think that other countries will just sit still and watch? It's not like that. It will put Sweden and the Swedish people at risk, and it is we who should take the first hit whether we have joined NATO or not. This is not good for the Swedish security policy line and for the opportunities to keep Sweden out of war and conflict.
i-b8fca2160165a859-473	Mr President, I would like to I have tried to explain how the Liberals view security policy choices. It can be said that during the years of the alliance there were many things that could have been done in a different way, not least in the field of defence policy. I can see that the Liberals, as early as after the war in Georgia in August 2008, demanded a change in the Committee on Defence. There was a new analysis, and in the defence decision that was then taken in 2009 it was on our initiative that a unit reserve was created corresponding to 50 percent of the regular intervention organisation and also a certain remilitarisation of Gotland. At that time, the Swedish Democrats were not inside the Swedish parliament, so I can only speculate on what their defence policy had looked like. But, Mr President, at a very early stage we have been aware of the unfortunate political developments in Russia, which have now been paired with extensive military armament.
i-b8fca2160165a859-476	Mr President, I would like to We see increasingly darker clouds in the sky of security policy, and we also see them in our own neighbourhood. We see them over the Baltic Sea in the form of various incidents; for example, we all remember the Russian Easter when Russia practiced against targets in Sweden. However, it was not the only opportunity. We see armaments in Russia, and we see nuclear rhetoric becoming more common. Just like Allan Widman said, it's preparation for war. We also have our own army chief who has stated that Sweden can be at war in a few years' time. This really inculcates the seriousness and the importance of talking about these issues and making sure that we strengthen our defence. It is therefore a matter of concern to the Christian Democrats to work for a stronger defence that works and can provide security to the Swedish people. An important part of this is that what we are discussing today, that is, the Memorandum of Understanding on Host Country Support, is in place. It is important and a step in the right direction. It fills our solidarity policy with substance, and it makes it clear that we want to give and receive support. As the proposal and the report show, this applies not only in exercises in peace but also in crisis and war. It is an important step and a clarification, but it is not enough. Sweden should also take the full step and become a member of NATO. Article 5 would then also apply to Sweden. It means that if a country is attacked, it is like all countries within the Union have been attacked. It would also give Sweden the opportunity to influence and obtain information, and above all it would give Sweden the opportunity to defend with NATO. It's just like an orchestra or a football team. When you practice together for real and plan together, you can make sure that it works in real life. The Memorandum of Understanding is an important step, but we would have to take it fully. When I listen to the debate, there are a few things I would like to comment on. This applies to the Swedish Democrats, who say that the Memorandum of Understanding carries enormous risks. Last week we had a debate in this House on the declaration of solidarity and our support for France in connection with the terrorist act that was being committed. It was then clear that the Swedish Democrats want to repeat the declaration of solidarity and make it clear that Sweden will not send as much as a soldier to Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania if they are attacked. Now the question to the Swedish Democrats is: Who do you think will stand up for Sweden if we act in such a way and make such commitments? I know the Secretary of Defense is coming after me, and I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you a question. One government party, the Green Party, is actively opposed to the Memorandum of Understanding. It is a large part of the government: one fifth. Does it mean anything to the government that the government party is so clearly opposed to the policy that the government stands for? And now when we talk about NATO: in the past, the purpose of us being non-aligned – or non-aligned if you wish – was in peace that we should be neutral in war. But it has been very many years since we had such an attitude. Now that we have joined the European Union and with the Treaty of Lisbon and our unilateral declaration of solidarity, we have gradually abandoned that position. We will not be neutral in the event of crisis or war. We will act. So my question to the Minister for Defence is: what is the purpose of maintaining our non-alignment, or freedom of alliance, when we are not going to be neutral in the event of war? I would like to conclude by reminding you that security is something that we build together. This is an important step we are taking today, but it should also be followed by membership of NATO.
i-b8fca2160165a859-485	Mr President, I would like to The security situation in Europe has deteriorated. Russian aggression against Ukraine violates international law and challenges the European security regime. The illegal annexation of Crimea cannot be accepted, and Sweden cannot accept aggression that changes Europe's borders. Both the conflict in Georgia in 2008 and the aggression against Ukraine show that Russia is prepared to use military means to achieve its political objectives. Russia has thereby demonstrated the ability to quickly gather together and carry out complex and illegal operations in its immediate neighbourhood without prior notice. We can also see that nuclear rhetoric is taking place in this context. Military training and intelligence activities in the Baltic Sea region have increased, which also carries an increased risk of incidents. Russian military behaves more challengingly around the Baltic Sea, and violations of the territorial integrity of Baltic Sea countries have occurred. Russian aircraft have on several occasions acted unprofessionally and provocatively. Some examples: In March 2014, a civil passenger aircraft from SAS is close to colliding with a Russian military aircraft flying without transponders in the airspace near Kastrup. In July 2014, a Russian model SU-27 fighter fly only 10 – 15 metres from a Swedish signal reconnaissance vessel. In December 2014, Russia is placing ballistic missiles of the Iskander type in Kaliningrad as part of an exercise. In March 2015, Russian warships disrupt a civilian vessel that is laying a power cable between Lithuania and Sweden. In April 2016, Russian SU-24 flies repeatedly and very close to the USS Donald Cook. Although an individual armed attack directly against Sweden remains unlikely, we must be prepared for crises or incidents involving military force to occur. And in the long term, we cannot rule out military attack threats. The field of security policy has become more difficult to navigate in. The situation requires caution and responsibility for peace and security. Therefore, the government is acting in the long term for the good of the country. For the government, it is important to face the changing security policy situation in a sober and balanced way. On the basis of the decision on the direction of the defence policy, supported by five parties in this House, the government is pursuing a two-legged defence and security policy. Firstly, we are investing in strengthening the operational capacity of the armed forces. For this, defence spending in the period increases by a total of around 17 billion. That includes the 10.2 billion we made up in the defense settlement. Then there are the remaining funds from the previous government. After years of cutbacks and thus a reduced operational capacity, this is considered a trend break. The single most important objective during the focus period is to increase the operational and overall capability of the total defence. This means that we must have war units who are manned, equipped and trained together in order to solve their tasks. Exercise activities are prioritised during the focus period, and all military units should carry out military units exercises. The Focus Decision has identified three specific priorities. We strengthen the so-called base plate in the form of bulk materials, standard vehicles and dark equipment. We strengthen the military presence on Gotland by organising a combat group from 2018. We have highlighted the importance of anti-aircraft exercises on Gotland. This initiative also has a special bearing on the Baltic republics. We also take a series of measures to ensure our ability to engage in submarine hunting. We have ordered a new generation of Jas Gripen aircraft. We also order new submarines. Secondly, on the basis of a military non-alignment position, we are deepening bilateral and multilateral relations with countries and organisations in our vicinity. We are deepening Nordic cooperation within the framework of Nordefco. We deepen special cooperation with Finland and plan to be able to act together even beyond peace-time conditions. We are strengthening the transatlantic link and cooperation with the United States. Within the framework of the Enhanced Opportunities Programme, we are also deepening cooperation with NATO, which is of particular importance for security in Europe. Sweden has a joint security policy. This does not mean that we will remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. When, following the terrorist attacks in Paris, France requested the support of the EU Member States under Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon, it was obvious for Sweden to stand up. Today, we support France with strategic transport flights and we intend to support it with materials. The French Minister of Defence confirmed the last time I met him at Berga his gratitude for the Swedish support. In this way, we have shown our neighbours and the other Member States of the European Union that we are serious about the declaration of solidarity we have given. In order to implement the solidarity policy, Sweden must have the ability to provide and receive civilian and military support. The memorandum of understanding on host country support with NATO that the Riksdag now has to take a position on is an important part in creating the legal conditions and strengthening the Swedish ability to live up to the commitments the Riksdag decided on back in 2009. This is the end of a process in which a large majority of parties have endorsed the need for a host country support agreement, first in the Defence Committee and then in the orientation decision of last year. A few points have been mentioned in the debate about the focus on Swedish defence and security policy. I would therefore like to point out that everything we do is about preventing and creating stability so that conflicts and concerns do not arise. It's the input value itself. Defence and security policy is part of a broader whole in which foreign policy has its part, trade policy has its part, and all the civil contacts that exist between different countries have their part, that is, the world community in which we live, in which bilateral and multilateral relations have their part. All of this is part of a wider and broader context. It can therefore be a little too narrow in relation to the whole that needs to be described when we are only discussing defence and security policy. The host country support agreement we are debating is one of all the collaborations we have. We have deepened our relationship with Finland even beyond peacetime conditions. Let's look at that kind of scenario and prepare for it. We do not promise each other anything in advance, but we create the opportunity. Every military cooperation we have with other countries – the Baltic countries, Poland, Denmark and other Nordic countries, France, England and the United States – is also part of the overall work aimed at practicing together. We have materiel cooperation and information exchange, and it is part of a picture where we create security together. It also demonstrates from time to time opportunities in the event of a situation of concern. What Sweden, Finland and Norway conduct 40 times a year at Nordkalotten in the form of cross-border training with their air force are advanced and important activities. It is also a signal of security policy. The same applies to the marine exercise we have carried out called Swefinex, which has been going on recently on the Baltic Sea. It is also a signal of security policy in which we mark a resource that can be used if necessary and if we so decide. All these exercises create networks that in turn create freedom of action to act in an emerging crisis or crisis. But the purpose of these cooperations is that we should not end up in that situation. The exercises are also part of a strategy to act in a threshold-enhancing way. We now have a defence budget of around 1.1% of GDP after it has added a number of billions. As Minister of Defence, I have to start on the point left by the representative. That is the position I have to assume, and that is from what we are working to strengthen the Swedish military capability. It's about delivering everything we've agreed on. We already have extensive training activities with other countries, and many of them are in NATO. This is linked to different bureaucratic regulations, and it is quite a lot of work to clear them up before you can carry out an exercise and delimit the exercise with all its aspects. This agreement is one way of reducing this administrative pre-work and facilitating it. Let me also refer to what we have said in so many contexts about the possibility of giving and receiving help. Does this have a dramatic effect on the overall security policy situation? I understand that this debate has taken place. The security policy analysis that has been carried out in Sweden is very thorough. The defence committee was a forum where all parties participated. It was not a bad job that was done there, although it was not a simple job to agree on the security policy analysis. But after what happened in Ukraine, we agreed. This platform is therefore well worked out, and we put together a puzzle in which we agreed on all the bi- and multilateral collaborations. We agreed on the transatlantic link, and we agreed on the NATO partnership. We also agreed by a large majority that we should proceed with the host country agreement. Finland has a host country agreement. We entered this process together with Finland. The intention was for us to do this in parallel, and we have our part to play in what is to be concluded today. In Finland, this has not been understood in the way expressed in some speeches in this House. There it has not been the same drama at all. In Finland, too, the concerns expressed in this House about all the negative consequences that could arise have not been resolved. So the host country agreement does not have the dramatic effect and meaning that we are trying to say here. The conclusion of a host country agreement does not mean that a country changes its basic security policy doctrine. If a country changes its basic doctrine of security policy – in our case, that we should abandon military alliance freedom or that Finland should abandon military alliance freedom – there could be a discussion about a more comprehensive way of doing things. Such reasoning is presented in the book The Consequences of Possible Finnish NATO Membership. Let me emphasise that it is not a matter of host country agreements, because Finland has already done so, and not all of these things have happened there. Regarding whether Finland should take the step and decide on NATO membership, it is stated at p. 53: The geopolitical change would be too great for Moscow to ignore it. The Finnish-Russian relations would be damaged and the political reaction would be sharp and likely also, as well as when a Russian fighter aircraft was shot down by the Turkish air defence in connection with the conflict in Syria. The unexpected and unwarranted border restriction in northern Finland at the end of 2015 is an example of Russia's tendency to create problems, then take maximum advantage of the situation and offer to deal with the problem without necessarily solving it. Russia can also react by increasing pressure on the border with the Baltic States. An attempt to politically activate the ethnic Russians living in Finland may also be considered. The atmosphere during the accession process would be poisoned and trade would suffer greatly, in line with what is now happening in the dispute between Turkey and Russia. The internal enlargement debate would take place in the light of the disruption of the traditional bilateral agenda. ..................................................... That's what you write from the Finnish analysis. It is the clearest analysis that has been made of a change in security policy doctrine and what it could mean for a country. In Sweden we have not done this type of assessment and analysis. As regards the analysis now under Krister Bringéus's leadership, we have even said that military alliance freedom is the security policy basis for this investigative work. However, he looks at the possibility and impact of developing all our collaborations. It will be interesting to see what it looks like when it is presented. In view of the way in which the debate is sometimes held in this House and the inconclusive findings about what happens if we implement the host country agreement, I think it is important to point out that this type of analysis also exists and gives a different dimension. I do not believe that with the host country agreement we will experience any of the things presented here from different quarters. As far as the host country agreement is concerned, I clearly and unequivocally agree that there have been many allegations in the debate that have not been reasonable, have not been right and wrong. Sometimes I have also wondered whether there are disinformative actions in this context. Nuclear weapons have been discussed here many times. It has sometimes seemed almost as if we were to have it deployed with immediate effect. Nuclear weapons should not and must not be placed in Sweden. It has been a very long-term line in Swedish politics. They must not be carried by visiting units. This has been made clear in many international contexts, and we have signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the signing of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, I understand that all governments have complied with the intentions of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The debate about the risk of nuclear weapons on Swedish territory is both incorrect and exaggerated. If you look in the bill you can see that this is also affected on s. 32, which sets out this and the Swedish position. The host country support agreement has nothing to do with the deployment of nuclear weapons. It is important, as some others have said, to talk about it again. We should not have the kind of skewed debate that is not right. It is also not correct to give some kind of picture that the host country agreement changes Swedish sovereignty and eliminates Swedish law, Swedish regulations or sovereign authority. NATO doctrines have in no sense greater value than Swedish regulations. The agreement does not give NATO the right to operate on its own in Swedish territory. There are no uniforms, vehicles, boots or anything else in Swedish territory with less than one Swedish invitation. It is not that these invitations are some kind of paper that only circulates between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Government Office and is routinely handled. Here, of course, every exercise and activity to be carried out is analysed. These are long-term processes, which discuss very carefully over a long period of time how such processes should be designed and for what purpose. It is not a question of one pushing something on someone else. Here you look at and prepare these types of activities together. It is exercise activities that are defined time and also in the area, scope and direction. That's what it's all about. Then I think we need to be clear on that point so that we do not think it is a question of permanent NATO bases in Sweden. We do not have any such in Finland, and there will be none. Nor is that what the agreement is about for the Swedish part. I cannot see it altering the Swedish basic position as regards relations with NATO or security policy. We will continue to be militaryly non-aligned. The basic issue of NATO membership, the most crucial core in this context, is the collective defence obligations based on common defence planning. It is under Article 5 of the Washington Treaty. If you are not a member of NATO, you are not included in this. That's where the core of the whole thing is. It is not possible to have Article 5 to 31⁄2%, 10%, 25% or 72.5%. You either have it or you don't have it. It's as simple as that. You have to take that to heart. The moving debate on one and the other does not seem to me to be relevant in this context. Everything that applies under the host country agreement is based on the voluntary nature of both parties involved. It is agreed in every situation how it should be applied. ( First VICE TALMANN: The minister has now spoken for 20 minutes and was set up for 10 minutes. That is a 100% overrun of the specified time. I would just like to point this out. ) I'll talk some more. I think it's so important. I'm sorry about this, but that's the way it is. What we are doing now is increasing our military capabilities. We deepen our cooperation with our partners. The host country agreement is a piece of the puzzle in the overall strategy. It is one measure among several. That is not the final measure. It is one among several in a variety of activities to create a defence and security policy that suits our time. Then you can discuss what it was like in 1968, 1972 and 1985 and what you did then. I have no comments or objections to that. It probably made the best of the situation in that situation. But this is what we do now. It is based on a defence preparation and a broad-based focus decision. This is where I draw any authority and possible platform for a parliamentary decision and not in various statements made in other contexts. Military freedom of alliance is the basis for this. But we work together with others to create security in the time we now live in.
i-b8fca2160165a859-536	Mr President, I would like to We should warmly welcome the Minister of Defence to this House. One day when it is the formation of the government and the Minister of Defence apparently retains his post as Minister of State, it may well justify this word firework that we just enjoyed. Of the 10 minutes requested, there were 22 minutes of mixed arguments. As was said, the latest report by the Defence Committee is the very basis for this. There were eight parties, all of Parliament's parties, who agreed that we should urgently try to get a host country agreement in place. There was no difference of opinion. In recent days, I have been contacted by quite a few diplomats and also representatives of foreign parliaments who wonder: What is happening now with the host country agreement? They have followed all these rather remarkable constitutional tours. Now it does not seem to be a declaration of rest. It should be noted that it is thanks to the Alliance that the host country agreement will be approved in this House today. It is because the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals, together with their parliamentary groups, stand up for this that the agreement goes through. On the other side, the Swedish Democrats will vote against. The Budget Co-operative Party with the Government and Minister for Defence Hultqvist, Left Party, intend to vote against. Parts of the Green Party – I count at least five members out of 25 – are fundamentally opposed, i.e. 20% of their parliamentary group. Obviously, the entire Socialist parliamentary group is in favour, although we have heard that there are a number of major districts that are opposed. This has to be considered. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of Defense is reflecting on that. The basis on the government side of the bill that has been put forward is eroding and rather weak. Is there any comment on that? From a united defence committee it is now thanks to the Alliance that the host country agreement goes through in the Swedish parliament.
i-b8fca2160165a859-542	Mr President, I would like to Now I think that all the votes of those who press the yes button to the host country agreement are equal. The weighting of votes of the environmentalists and social democrats voting in favour of this is exactly the same as for the members of the Alliance in this context. The Left Party was against this from the beginning. As far as our cooperation on budgetary matters is concerned, I do not know whether even in the most far-fetched world we can link this with the host country agreement. I am building my actions on the five-party agreement that we have made in the Defense Committee. It's from what we deliver. That's why there's a bill here. There might have been reason for Wallmark to iron out, try to give some kind of picture of division and point to a weak government that had not been a bill on the table and we are not now trying to decide on this today. Then it would have been relevant. But in a situation where we are in the final stage and that goes through, it is not very relevant criticism. I have more to say about doing some political propaganda. This is now being done. It is good both for Sweden and for our collaborations.
i-b8fca2160165a859-546	Mr President, I would like to With 22 minutes of speaking time in his speech, one can possibly recall the words of political propaganda. Today there is a debate article in Dagens Nyheter written by a number of environmental-partisan members. They argue against the host country agreement, they would like to restrain it and they are fundamentally very critical. Mr President, I would like to They put forward arguments such as the fact that there are still outstanding questions and that there is a technicality. Furthermore, it is said that it also opens up for secret follow-up agreements, and it writes about NATO bases. It is also in danger of having a serious security policy impact, it is said, and concludes with a monumental democratic deficit. In the debate, the Minister of Defence has said earlier that when I see all the wrong statements on this matter, I wonder: in whose interest is this constant misinformation? In essence, I think that this is a good starting point. I share the view that there is incorrect information and that one can really think about in whose interest it is. Would the Minister for Defence, on this basis, want to reflect on what environmental parties, which form the government base, have actually written today in the debate article? Does the Minister of Defence think that these are the relevant arguments put forward by those who constitute this relatively weak government's even weaker parliamentary basis?
i-b8fca2160165a859-550	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the Alliance has an even weaker position in Parliament than our overall basis for getting budgets through, for example. There is no reason to try to give a picture of Wallmark's lack of muscles. I haven't read the article. In fact, I think the relevant input to the discussion is this: Is there today a bill that Parliament will probably adopt, or does it not? My assessment is that there is a bill that Parliament will probably adopt. That is what I think is the important perspective. That is the proof of strength for Sweden. Then, of course, we can discuss various members of parliament and party members and who has said what in different contexts. I can't handle all these things. What I have said before about all the elements of the debate is something I stand for, but I cannot go in and review an article that I have not even heard. I expect a decision today; I assume that is the case. If it doesn't, we'll get back to it at a later stage. That is what matters to Sweden. If there are some who had been expected to vote in a different way and have not done so, this is not the broad perspective that governs our relationship with the outside world. That is not the signal of security policy.
i-b8fca2160165a859-554	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Defence states in his speech that the agreement is not a first step towards membership of NATO. In yesterday's Expressen, we read on the debate page that the Borg claim that the host country agreement is a first step into NATO, which it is not. The Borg are therefore saying the opposite of what the Minister of Defence says, and we share that view. We too believe that this is a first step. How can it be that two parties – the government parties – are of such a far different opinion from the other parties about what this really means? The Minister for Defence further says that he believes that the scenarios that have been painted in this House today will not take place. Believe can be done in the church, but when making heavy and important safety policy decisions, it would be good if you know what they lead to. Could it be because there has been no impact assessment or analysis of what the agreement entails? And why hasn't it been done? It must be understood that the decisions we make here – whether they are security policy decisions or decisions on other issues – have consequences. What, then, are these consequences? We do not know, because no proper analysis has been made. I understand that the bourgeoisie did not do so when they signed the agreement; they are, of course, strong supporters of entering NATO fully. So they may not care about the consequences of the agreement. But I do not understand that the Social Democrats, who got the agreement in their laps, do not make a proper analysis before they go on to write a bill and leave it to Parliament. The Minister of Defence says that this is a way of preventing and preventing conflicts. In what way is this agreement a means of preventing and preventing conflicts? The agreement applies not only in peacetime but also in conflict time. Does the Minister of Defence not believe that NATO bases and troops will pose a threat to Sweden?
i-b8fca2160165a859-558	Mr President, I would like to What does Björn Söder know about the discussions in the Defence Committee? The Swedish Democrats were also represented there. There was a comprehensive analysis of a wide range of collaborations, and the host country agreement was part of this. The question was that all these measures together contribute to creating a more stable situation in our part of Europe. When it comes to the host country agreement, you, Björn Söder, are building a huge drama into it. I don't see it the same way. We have extensive cooperation with exercises and will continue to do so in the future. What we are doing now facilitates administratively. In terms of providing and receiving support in a crisis situation, we are now doing so under the 42.7 of the Treaty of Lisbon in relation to France. Does Björn Söder think it's wrong? I believe that this is an agreement that will create more opportunities for action for us in the event of something happening. However, I believe that the potentially problematic situation in our area would happen if we chose to change our basic security policy stance, that is to say decide to become a member of NATO. Then there will be a completely different discussion. Finland already has this host country agreement, and these scenarios, among others Björn Söder, have not occurred in Finland. The host country agreement is not seen in this way. There we have a practical reality to analyse and evaluate. I read in my speech a section from the Finnish report and the analysis of possible Finnish NATO membership. I can only say what it says and that it has a completely different dimension from what is said here about what a host country agreement would mean.
i-b8fca2160165a859-562	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Defence is happy to tease me, but the Finnish host country agreement is not a direct copy of the Swedish, or vice versa. They're different. The Secretary of Defense will be happy to inform me if I'm wrong. We have had a geopolitical balance, a stability, in this area. Does the Minister of Defence mean that this will not be disturbed by the fact that we are leaving our territory to establish NATO bases or that we have NATO troops on Swedish territory? Would that not affect the geopolitical stability that has existed in our neighbourhood? Does the Secretary of Defense mean that it will not affect at all? So there will be no reaction from other countries to NATO moving closer to them and allowing land? We're not just talking about peacetime. It's one thing to get together in peacetime. But now it's also about a situation where it gets darker, where we come in twilight and eventually maybe end up in a conflict situation. Does the Minister of Defence mean that this does not change the geopolitical stability of our neighbourhood or that Sweden is not exposed to a threat? I do not know if the Minister for Defence was in the Chamber earlier when I spoke and then asked some questions. Will the Minister of Defence be able to stand up and say that we do not think this is the time if NATO is in a conflict situation and asks to establish bases here? Or will he fold? If he folds and bases are established here: Does the Minister of Defence think that an attacking party will then say that it will not hit Sweden and the NATO bases that are here because we are non-aligned? The Minister of Defence has said that it is important to maintain the freedom of alliance, and I share that view. But does the Minister of Defence think that attacking countries will say that they are not hitting Sweden because we are non-aligned and leave the NATO bases alone? Does the Minister of Defence not share my view that these NATO bases will also be destroyed? Then we have a war on Swedish territory, and it affects the Swedish people.
i-b8fca2160165a859-567	Madam President, I would like No one can say with enough security of the crystal ball exactly what to do in a twilight or a crisis situation. I don't think Björn Söder or I can say that. This applies whether we have a host country agreement or not. Such requirements can come even without host country support agreements. What we do in such a situation depends entirely on how it all happens in relation to what we consider important Swedish security. I stand on the basis of the defence committee, namely that it is very unlikely that a country will be affected if there is a conflict situation in our part of Europe. Does Björn Söder share that view? If one considers that more than one country is affected, it may be wise to have cooperation between different countries even in peace-time conditions. Then it may also be wise to have this part, because we have ongoing exercise activities and future exercise activities that will continue. What to give and receive in a crisis situation is actually not really known until you are there. What we did in relation to France is the most practical ruling we can talk about today, because there is at least a concrete example. What this then means in a civilian or military crisis in relation to that agreement, we only know when we are there. For Sweden, this is about creating freedom of action for a future situation. Then a government must also have integrity and ensure Sweden's fundamental interests in such a crisis situation. But it is also a question of assessing the situation in relation to other countries. I do not think it is possible to deal with the situation if you see this strictly isolationist. That was not the case during World War II either.
i-b8fca2160165a859-572	Madam President, I would like During his speech, the Minister for Defence said: I must start digging where my predecessor was standing. He pointed out that 1.1 percent of the bnp is now assigned to military defence. However, with the defence decision for which Peter Hultqvist is responsible, Parliament's investigation service believes that we will already be falling under 1% in defence appropriations in two years' time, and in my view it does not seem that progress is moving in the right direction. However, I have a question for the Minister for Defence. A few years ago, former commander general Sverker Göranson stated that he had the ability to defend our country against an attack in one direction for a week. Assuming he got more money in 2015 he could do this in 2019. Following this statement, Russia has accelerated its rehabilitation year by year. Does the Minister of Defense share the assessment of the former Supreme Commander? If so, what safety policy conclusions is he prepared to draw from it?
i-b8fca2160165a859-576	Madam President, I would like As regards the share of GDP, there is also a proportion of GDP in relation to economic growth. So what such a figure looks like depends on how the overall economy develops. What I want to concentrate on now is trying to deliver for this money that Parliament has contributed, the h is 10.2 billion plus the 5.5 billion that has remained since before. That is my focus, and it is an enormous challenge to implement it, because it is about material systems, exercises and a wide range of actions to be implemented. We have now begun to do so. I note that I am appreciating the 70 % majority in Parliament. When it comes to scenarios – one week, one direction and so on – you can paint many of them for what a possible conflict may look like. The conflict Widman is discussing was highly concentrated in one place and with a major weapon and high-tech effort. It's not certain a scenario will look like that. So we need to prepare ourselves for different types of scenarios. I will not make any spectacular statements that we will survive a certain number of days or weeks. It depends on so much what you can and cannot do, and it also depends on how other nations act in such a context. However, I can say that we have an improvement potential, and that is what we are now trying to work with to increase the military capability according to the parliamentary decision that has been taken in combination with deepening the various collaborations, of which the host country agreement discussion is one.
i-b8fca2160165a859-581	Madam President, I would like I note that Peter Hultqvist does not disagree with the assessment made by General Göranson. He fills it out and notes that it was very concentrated military resources with a high level of technology and that that could then obviously be the outcome. But the Minister for Defence did not take the time to answer my question, namely what security policy conclusions he would draw from this. I hear the Minister of Defence returning time and again to the word freedom of action. I can ask the question a little more specifically: what war plan is going on between Sweden and Finland, in Nordefco and in the EU? This is where Sweden currently has its networks. Please answer that question, Minister of Defence! If we can conclude that the given sufficient concentration and high military technology are true, as General Göranson says, what are the security policy conclusions of this? It is true that the bnp measure is a relative measure, and it is always about how much tried and tested combat ability can be squeezed out of every crown in the defense grant. Nevertheless, I would like to remind the Minister for Defence that he himself used the bnp measure, and that is also what is used when making international comparisons. It is considered very relevant. Madam President, I would like I repeat my question. What safety policy conclusions does Peter Hultqvist draw when he does not contradict Sverker Göranson's assessment?
i-b8fca2160165a859-587	Madam President, I would like I specified the sums of EUR 10.2 billion plus EUR 5.5 billion in my last speech. Earlier today, I have examined what parts of the defence decision mean purely materially and what we intend to do, plus that it concerns the deepening of relations with other countries. That is the conclusion of the work of the Swedish Armed Forces, and that is the conclusion of the policy proposal adopted last year by the Parliament with a 70 % majority. So that is the overall assessment of the situation now. The important thing for me now is to try to deliver what Parliament has ordered. That's how you should see it. As far as Sweden and Finland are concerned, I can say that I only met the Finnish Minister of Defence yesterday. We also discussed those parts of the cooperation that are confidential, and there is nothing I can stand here and present or have any open thoughts about. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot go any further. It is just as difficult to say anything about what kind of planning work it is when it comes to this dimension we conduct within the Swedish Armed Forces. What I can say, however, is that, at European level, we have at least now activated paragraph 42.7 at one point within the European Union and demonstrated that we are prepared to do something when a country invokes that clause. Unfortunately, I cannot move into the sphere of military secrecy here. I think Mr Widman also feels that it might be an overwhelming act in this context.
i-b8fca2160165a859-592	Madam President, I would like During his rather long speech, the Minister of Defence draws a very dark picture of what is happening in Ukraine, the rejected transponders and the action in the airspace with Russian planes flying very close to Swedish planes. I agree with that statement of reality and with the fact that the situation is serious. It is good that the Minister for Defence is clear that the declaration of solidarity is solid. We will not be neutral if a neighbouring country is attacked, and we expect corresponding assistance. It is also a good thing that the host country agreement is described as something that is not dramatic, but something natural and something that we agreed on in the Defence Policy. It is also natural to think that we are now one of the most active NATO partners. We're in the NATO Response Force. Today or hopefully in the near future, the host country agreement will be in place. But then it's over. The question I put from the floor was: What is the underlying argument and purpose of being non-aligned or non-aligned when we no longer aim to be neutral in war? After all, we have long taken a stand because we will not be neutral. Then the question I would like to ask and give the Minister for Defence the chance to answer is: what is the point of our unalignedness when this is gone?
i-b8fca2160165a859-597	Madam President, I would like I use the term In my introduction, I have explained, among other things, how I view the host country agreement, and I have also explained how the Finnish report on NATO assesses what it would mean if it were to go that way in Finland. I have not taken a position on the content myself, but I have just stated that this is how you see it. We want to make the point that Sweden basically has the attitude to want to contribute long-term to stability in our neighbourhood. We do not see that a change in security policy doctrine is what leads to stability in the first place. This could lead to a re-evaluation of our basic position and the situation in the Nordic countries in such a way that we risk having a tougher climate here. By cooperating with others on a bilateral or multilateral organisational basis, we are working together to show that, on the basis of a military freedom of alliance, we take the situation very seriously and in this way actively, on the basis of that position, deepen and contribute to the necessary stability. I feel that our position is respected by all the partners that we have and that we are positive about what we are trying to do in different contexts, that we are contributing constructively and positively. Should Finland and Sweden, on the other hand, break the security policy doctrine and foundation that we have, I think we will have a completely different situation in our part of Europe. That is where one of the differences in our approach is found.
i-b8fca2160165a859-602	Madam President, I would like From the Christian Democrats' side, it is clear that we believe that we would increase security radically if Sweden became a full member of NATO. This would reduce Russia's desire – if you put it that way – to adventures in the Baltic Sea. This would strengthen security for Sweden but also for the Baltic countries. This would allow NATO to defend the Baltic countries as necessary. Then there is an important issue. What is the purpose of being non-aligned or non-aligned if we are not to be neutral in war anyway? We also have a question that emerged earlier. The last ÖB was very clear that we will last a week, if he would get all the money he wanted in 2019. If an attack were to take place in the near future – the army commander says we could be at war in a few years' time – we would probably do much worse. Then the question is, Who will come to our aid in one, two or three days? Who's going to help us if we make it on our own that short? We are now investing in the defence, which the Secretary of Defense is quite right to do. But if we're going to have the goal to manage ourselves, then it's not enough – not at all – but we have to go back to completely different amounts if we're going to think that we in Sweden are going to manage ourselves. When I did military service in 1990, we invested 2.5% of the bnp. Is it such sums that we must up to if we are to deliver security to the Swedish people, if we are to remain free of alliances or unaligned, as the Minister of Defence chooses to call it?
i-b8fca2160165a859-606	Madam President, I would like What is missing from Oscarsson's reasoning is entirely how to build a strategy to avoid and minimize conflicts in our neighbourhood. Can Sweden play a role there? Can we play a role there with Finland? Oscarsson does not seem to believe that changing our security policy doctrine will affect the world at all. I believe that a change of security policy doctrine is such a fundamental decision that it affects. On the other hand, the line we have now chosen – based on the geography in which we find ourselves – is a more talented line based on the stabilizing, peace-keeping, long-term perspective of avoiding conflict. At the same time, we build relationships with others. We go very far with Finland, where we also prepare scenarios beyond peace-time conditions. We are present in the international context. We also note that if something happens in our part of Europe, we do not think it affects just one country. However, how we act in such a situation must be considered in this context. We also need to see the preventive and stabilising perspective. For example, should we join NATO, it should be made clear that it would put Finland under very strong pressure and in a difficult situation. We cannot only think nationally, but we must think much wider and with a broader effect. When we think about this – and as we have acted both in the Defence Committee and in other contexts – we really want to emphasise the preventive perspective. Finally, I would like to say that the host country agreement may have a positive effect in this context, but I do not think NATO membership has.
i-b8fca2160165a859-612	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense just said that he did not believe that NATO membership would have a positive effect on our security. I heard the Minister of Defence quoting the Finnish NATO investigation. It was in my ears a little exciting. It has several pages. It is good that we have had an investigation, because the Minister for Defence clearly does not want an investigation of his own, so we must therefore refer to the Finnish. I read in it that membership of NATO would obviously strengthen Finland's direct security, as it would then be subject to the security guarantees provided for in Article 5, while membership would more strongly discourage possible attacks on the country. I'll read on to you, "No open conflict would not... follow, because Russia would be aware that any abuse would lead to the entire alliance reacting." ..................................................... Then I wonder: does this not mean a strategy to raise the thresholds and increase security for both Finland and us? Instead of working with Russian dolls, where different parts, so to speak, are put together, this would be creating clarity for all. I would like to hear what the Minister for Defence says about this. This is on p. 47, if we're going to talk references. Then I come back to what analysis the Minister for Defence is making of the fact that parts of his basis for the alliance freedom reasoning are now apparently folding off.
i-b8fca2160165a859-618	Madam President, I would like I note that the report by the investigation team, which does not express the final opinion of the Finnish Government, does not give a final recommendation either. I only relate to the parliamentary debate that has taken place here, which talked about geopolitical effects in the event of us signing a host country agreement. I believe that the things that have been said in this House in terms of geopolitical effects are considerably exaggerated. On the other hand, with regard to NATO membership, I relate to what is stated in the Finnish report. It's the last thing that's come. It's a very interesting analysis that they do. It shows that it is not a simple process that will in no sense affect the environment. When it comes to the analysis that we have done, it is based on the reasoning that we have taken in the Defence Committee about the strategy that Sweden should have. That is, of course, increased military capability and enhanced cooperation of this kind. In this way, we contribute to stability. Then we have not been in full agreement with the Committee on Defence on the very issue of NATO membership. I can only say that the investigation that Mr Bringeus is now carrying out is based on the fact that we do not want to give a signal that the Swedish military alliance freedom and the fundamental doctrine of security policy are changing, especially given that we are living in such a troubled time today. Then stability and predictability are very important. Then we think it is extremely important that Sweden shows stability and long-term predictability. We have the same political basis as the Finnish Government. Together with our Prime Minister, it has been pointed out that NATO membership is not up to date.
i-b8fca2160165a859-623	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is an interesting investigation about NATO that has come from Finland. I've read it very carefully. It would have been good if you had looked at those questions from the Swedish horizon. The question of freedom of alliance and the consequences of an alternative route would not have had to be referred to the Finnish assessment. I share the view of the Minister for Defence that the geopolitical effects of the host country agreement are very exaggerated. My question will then be: is it not the case that the defence minister's view of the geopolitical effects of NATO membership is very exaggerated – in view of what is stated in the Finnish investigation? Madam President, I would like Sometimes it refers to freedom of alliance and sometimes to military freedom of alliance. When I listen to the debate, I feel that the image of what is military alliance freedom and alliance freedom is a little different in the parties behind that line. The Social Democrats represent the Minister for Defence, and the Green Party – the second part of the government – clearly has a different picture. It is understood that the host country agreement poses a threat to the freedom of alliance. It is quite clear that the other two support parties here in Parliament, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, also believe that it is a threat to the freedom of alliance as they interpret it. Then it would be exciting to hear if the Minister for Defence does not perceive that it is a weakness in Swedish security policy that we do not have an unambiguous interpretation of what this means and that we do not have a consensus on NATO across the bloc.
i-b8fca2160165a859-627	Madam President, I would like I think there is wisdom in the Finnish report when it is said that small countries rarely change the main lines of their foreign policy. They depend more on continuity than on greater powers. This analysis includes, of course, long-term, stability, continuity and respect for international law, sovereignty and predictable and stable action. If we were to change the doctrine of security policy, especially at a time of concern, it would upset this kind of balance. Then you can't ignore what's in here and that I just told you about. It says that it would mean a very big change, one would be damaged and the political reaction would be sharp. There would be an increased tendency to create problems, increase pressure at the border, and so on. There's a lot of that going on. This should be included in this analysis, and then you have to value it in different places. The government's entry into this that will remain firm is therefore predictability and stability from the Swedish side. This does not, however, apply to naivety. We would be characterised by naivity if we could not see what is happening in our neighbourhood, if we did not take action in the form of military capabilities, if we were not able to cope and did not dare to cooperate more closely with others. Then we would not take the security policy situation seriously. In this case, I think I'm a pretty conservative person. By maneuvering long-term t, cautiously, but stable with a clear analysis, we make the best contribution to peace and security. No sharp throws into security policy!
i-b8fca2160165a859-631	Madam President, I would like I've been thinking about whether I can sum up the rather long post. I understand that if we criticise the agreement, it is not entirely wrong that we should almost lend ourselves to the Russian disinformation work. It feels like a little harsh words. Sometimes this agreement is so important that it should go through at all costs, no matter what voters, members and others think. On the other hand, it will make no difference to what it is like today, they say. It's kind of hard to get that picture together. Well, I still think that there are some wordings in the host country agreement that may be worth receiving the defence minister's comment on. The agreement states that it is intended to be used throughout the range of situations where Sweden may receive NATO's military support, i.e. in peacetime as well as in crises, wars in Sweden or in the immediate region – continuation 2.1 – during NATO-led military activities. This is what the agreement is about. Is it really certain that our participation in possible operations in our neighbourhood – how large it may be estimated to be – or in wars that we have not chosen ourselves to participate in or consider desirable enhances Sweden's security? I'm very skeptical about that. It also states in the host country agreement that it includes attacks on third parties. Of course we must invite NATO. That is not something we need to discuss. Rather, it concerns how much is formal of this. There are also realities of power politics. If we have prepared the guest room, made the bed, arranged with refrigerators and power sockets, it is a little harder to answer no when someone knocks on.
i-b8fca2160165a859-636	Madam President, I would like For me, this is not about making guest rooms, offering a pantry or having some kind of restaurant business. Here we start from realities in our near world. I can only say that what has happened in Crimea. What is happening in the Baltic Sea region with exercises and intelligence is happening. The bases that open are apparently happening. It is nothing that needs to be valued in any deeper sense. Besides, it's the facts. This with Daish in relation to France and the attacks took place. That was not something we were prepared for, but when France invoked the 42.7 Treaty of Lisbon, we all stood up in one way or another, and we have dealt with that here in Parliament. What a possible crisis looks like is very difficult to know in advance. That's why it's so incredibly hard to know exactly what the pantry should look like. What you can do is prepare as best you can and make wise decisions based on it. Whether we have this agreement or not and there is a crisis in our part of Europe, we have to decide in one way or another how to act. We will then find ourselves in some sense dependent on one another to cope with such a situation. This agreement gives us the opportunity to prepare for such situations together with other democratic countries. I don't think you should underestimate the strength of a Swedish invitation. That is the mark of national sovereignty. However, we should not underestimate the fact that it is being conducted and will be engaged in an exercise. It is about facilitating an activity that is actually already ongoing, which will continue and which has broad support in the Riksdag.
i-b8fca2160165a859-642	Madam President, I would like We share the criticism of the actions of the Putin regime in Crimea and Ukraine. But we do not share the conclusion that Sweden would be next, that this seriously threatens Sweden's security. That is what this debate about the host country agreement should or should not be about. You can't reasonably get it if you don't stretch the arguments very much. In the case of nuclear weapons, the Minister has previously referred to a law that does not exist. My thinking is still: why is this not in the agreement with nuclear weapons? The fact that we have made unilateral declarations in different contexts does not usually weigh so much when it really comes to it. No one has said that nuclear weapons will be deployed with immediate effect, not what I have heard anyway. But it is also the case that the Non-Proliferation Treaty, to which the Minister for Defence refers, has not prevented the US from deploying nuclear weapons in five of the NATO countries. It itself is considered not to be contrary to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is a contentious matter. Why shouldn't we be the sixth? The host country agreement does not say anything about nuclear weapons, says the Minister of Defence sometimes a little irritated. No, exactly, and that's what the criticism is about. That should be in the agreement, because that's the hard core. We should, in my opinion, change Swedish law so that it corresponds to Finnish law which clearly states that it is forbidden to bring nuclear weapons into Finland. Well, at least we've got it in place. Then, of course, we must monitor compliance. If you do not, there is no point in having legislation. This applies in every context. NATO's doctrine includes the use of nuclear weapons, and it is part of the host country agreement that we should follow NATO's doctrine. It's in the deal. Isn't it time for a Swedish law in this area?
i-b8fca2160165a859-648	Madam President, I would like This agreement does not concern nuclear weapons, as I have said, because I do not know what time in order. It is about preparing and implementing existing and future exercise activities. It is also a question of preparing to give and receive help in a possible crisis. In an interpellation that Stig Henriksson has previously made to me, he writes that I should have made reference to the fact that the Act( 1984:3) on nuclear activities prohibits nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. But I have not said that the Nuclear Act prohibits nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. What I have said, more specifically in response to a written question about what I have done to ensure that B52 aircraft would not carry nuclear weapons in connection with exercises with Baltops on Swedish territory, is that it is not compatible with the law on nuclear activities to bring such cargo into Swedish territory without permission. A Swedish position is that nuclear weapons must not be placed on Swedish territory. This is something that Sweden has clearly highlighted to the outside world for decades. Our Swedish position is not to acquire nuclear weapons and not to allow such weapons to be placed on Swedish territory or carried by visiting foreign combat forces during visits. It has been communicated in many different contexts, including at the UN General Assembly. It is also the case that we have signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and we are following it. A visiting state is required by international law to comply with the conditions that Sweden lays down during visits. It follows, among other things, from the principle of international sovereignty. We have that kind of regulation that we work from outside. I don't think we'll ever get along on this. I have no ambitions on this point. But we have clarified our respective positions. In a democracy you can have different opinions. On the issue of a military threat to Sweden, I can say that I have not used that kind of wording. I am on the basis of the Specialization Bill and the Defense Committee. It is about the possibility of a conflict in which there are more of us involved.
i-b8fca2160165a859-654	Madam President, I would like We can safely conclude that many people in Sweden do not know what the host country agreement contains. And when people do not know the content of an agreement that is being debated about, there is of course a temptation and an opportunity to start saying things, to cormorate things and perhaps even to scare about things. It may be that people who are against NATO membership claim that this brings Sweden closer to NATO and is actually a kind of membership, as well as we can sometimes hear people who are in favour of NATO membership say: now that we go this far, we might as well take the step fully and join NATO. I and the Social Democrats are against NATO membership. We would not propose a decision in this House that would involve some kind of half-step into NATO. That's not what this is about. This is about regulating exercise activities and at worst having to give or receive assistance in the event of a conflict. These are not things that we are not doing today but that we would be doing in the future with the host country agreement. This is framework legislation that regulates the practical issues around how things should be done. It is an agreement that makes it easier for us to deal with everything that is not military in a military exercise. As a matter of fact, there is nothing new that we are going to do with the host country agreement. Sweden conducts a large number of exercises in different sizes and with different orientations in a common year, both on its own and together with many other countries. That exercise will continue, whether we have a host country agreement or not. The question is: What should we spend our time on? Should we spend time on administration around the exercises, or is it better that we spend political time considering whether it is actually exercises we want to invite to or participate in? I think the latter is reasonable. That's why it's important to have this host country agreement. We have heard Stig Henriksson question why it is so important that it should happen so quickly if the agreement now does not change anything. Yes, if you think that something signed shortly before the 2014 elections and decided now goes quickly, it can be an illustration of how quickly you are used to doing things. But I don't think it'll be quick. There have been good and many opportunities to take note of the content of the agreement for those who really want to get into it and read what it says there and not just go on various more or less fictional statements that occur in the debate. It is important for Sweden to have the host country agreement. It is an important cog in the variety of options we should have for our defence and for our security policy. We have collaborations on defence activities with Finland and the rest of the Nordic countries, with the EU and with various other individual countries, such as Poland. This is another pawn in this mosaic of cooperation opportunities, which builds freedom of action for Sweden in the event that the worst would happen in the form of a flare-up conflict in our country or in our immediate vicinity. It is good to have a debate and a better understanding of security policy in general and the host country agreement in particular. But it is also good, Madam President, if the debate is fact-based and not based on fantasy or wishful thinking. It will not be better if you, like Mikael Oscarsson, focus entirely on the fact that this would be some kind of pre-stage to NATO membership. It only plays Stig Henriksson and other opponents in the hands. I find it hard to understand that you don't see it and draw the consequences from it. Instead, let us continue the debate on what this agreement actually contains and what it really aims to do! Then, when it is in place, we have the opportunity to discuss properly what exercises it is that we should participate in and not participate in. That would be the factual approach to these issues. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report to adopt the host country agreement.
i-b8fca2160165a859-662	Madam President, I would like There has been much talk of how many times the word a nuclear weapon occurs in various political documents in our policy area. Sometimes I have thought about how many times the concept of military alliance freedom has occurred in this debate. That's a number of times. When I hear Kenneth G. Forslund say that this agreement involves, among other things, being able, in the event of a crisis or war, to prepare for military aid from the NATO Defence Alliance, I wonder: Is it really the opinion of the Social Democrats, and is it well-analysed, that we can combine this type of preparation with, at the same time, asserting an absolute military freedom of alliance? It's not that you just go that way, but you go even further. You say that these are technicalities. You say that there is no security policy signal effect in that we are preparing to receive assistance from a military alliance in times of crisis or war. I would be very grateful, Madam President, if Kenneth G. Forslund could elaborate how he thinks about this.
i-b8fca2160165a859-665	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Allan Widman, for a very relevant question! Where are the limits in this context? That is a highly relevant question. I think Allan Widman shares the view that Sweden has a number of different options. Then there is also the option of being able to use NATO in the worst of situations, but above all to practice with NATO in the normal situation. The main alternative is exercise activities. It is hopefully not one of us who stands and hopes that Sweden will be drawn into a conflict where we end up in a sharp position. Exercise activities are central. For the Swedish Armed Forces, it is important to be able to practice with different countries and organisations because it develops the capacity and ability. We need this development and exercise in order to maintain good preparedness in the country and to cope with different tasks in the event that our own country's security is threatened or Sweden will participate in other operations, such as UN-mandated operations in other parts of the world.
i-b8fca2160165a859-668	Madam President, I would like Now Kenneth G Forslund says that it is good to have a large number of options when playing out your security policy. I can't exactly contradict it, but sometimes things happen. They can happen suddenly and with an extremely strong effect. Not only is it important to have many options, but I also think it is important to have locked and prepared the various options in some way. That is where I believe the host country agreement, despite its security policy signal effect, does not fully cover our needs. I think Kenneth G. Forslund misses – and I have said this several times in the debate today – that host country agreements can be the first step towards NATO membership. I tried to point out in my speech how incredibly many steps we have taken along the way. It is not at all the first step, but possibly the last step. This is what is left that Sweden can participate in without being a member – at least until NATO comes up with some new form of cooperation that becomes even more exclusive. Does Kenneth G Forslund not see the whole context? If you put on the Russian glasses and look at the history of security policy in the 90s, 00s and 10s in Sweden, does Kenneth G Forslund not understand that the outside world is beginning to wonder whether Sweden really has a credible military freedom of alliance or not?
i-b8fca2160165a859-671	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman here talks about having the options well prepared. He is, of course, referring to the idea that Sweden should join NATO. I am not so sure that one can draw a clear conclusion from the fact that even then one is well prepared. I do not believe that NATO's response is entirely clear. We have seen a number of different situations throughout history where among the states that are members for various reasons have chosen not to use NATO. I don't think you can take it for granted. It is one of the weaknesses of the reasoning advocated by the People's Party and other parties. Liberals! Sorry, Madam President and Allan Widman. I guess I'll just have to put a penny in that jar that you have in the Liberals' office. Madam President, I would like To assume that NATO would be a kind of insurance solution and that there would then be an automatic aid risk being a false security. I am firmly convinced that the defence of Sweden must primarily be managed by Sweden at all times whether we are in NATO or not. That is what we have at our disposal and that is what we can decide on. Not everything else can be 100% predicted. To then have exercises and collaboration is wise. This is the most advanced organization in the world, which has the most knowledge and resources. It would be unwise for Sweden not to take part in this knowledge and opportunities. That is why the host country agreement and other cooperation with NATO are good. I can see that every time we take decisions on different collaborations between Sweden and NATO, it is heard from NATO advocates that the final step is now being taken.
i-b8fca2160165a859-676	Madam President, I would like What was it like now? Those of us who are sceptical are said to be cormorant and intimidated, said Kenneth G. Forslund in his speech – without any further specification, but one may well feel hit because it seems to cover all critics of the host country agreement. Kenneth G. Forslund then said that the facts should be disseminated, that it is about practice and being able to give or receive help. If it were that simple! Let me reiterate what is stated in the host country agreement. It should be used in peacetime, for example in exercises, in crises, wars in Sweden or in the surrounding area. In 2.1, it is clear that this is a case of NATO-led military activities. Point 1.2 shows that NATO activities to be conducted from Sweden include attacks on third parties. This is a little different from saying that the host country agreement is about exercises and preparing to give and receive help. It's something more warlike. Why don't you talk about those things that should be so much more important than who's going to pay foreign military dental bills? No, this hasn't been fast. But perhaps there is something in the process that makes many feel that way, including three heavy Social Democratic party districts that want to postpone ratification for a year. It happens to be consistent with our shelling request. Let's look at the process. There has been no public debate or media coverage. The agreement is signed a few weeks before the election. Nothing on the Foreign Affairs Board. The agreement is translated after ten months into Swedish. Consultation only to authorities and other more official bodies. Is Kenneth G Forslund really satisfied with this process?
i-b8fca2160165a859-681	Madam President, I would like I will start by trying to answer some of Stig Henriksson's questions. Then I will also take the liberty of doing something that I usually avoid in the lines when the questions are asked to me, namely to actually address one or possibly two questions to Stig Henriksson. First of all, it is not three heavy social democratic party districts that have made the decision that Stig Henriksson says. There's possibly two. I spoke yesterday to one of our representatives from Skåne's party district, who was present when they debated and decided on the matter there, who says that the claim about the decision in Skåne is wrong. How has the process been? Stig Henriksson said it was ten months before a Swedish translation arrived. Yes, that was before there was a legal-linguistic Swedish translation. That's correct. But there was an early translation to read to those who wanted to see the content of the agreement. Then it's about getting the legal technical wording exactly right so that the agreement means the same thing in Swedish as it does in English. Again, we see how to slide around on facts. Then there is the nuclear discussion, which Stig Henriksson himself has often returned to. Now he didn't do it in this particular line, but maybe it will. What distinguishes this agreement from the cooperation and exercises that we already have today? In the event of a conflict in Sweden or in our neighbourhood, how does Stig Henriksson think we would act then? What is the difference between today's situation and having such an agreement, Stig Henriksson?
i-b8fca2160165a859-686	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is possible that you have formulated yourself in a slightly different way in Skåne. That is not the view I have had when I read the press releases sent out in connection with the statement. Now faith and solidarity, the former Brotherhood movement, and Västerbotten's women's district have said the same thing, so something must have gone a little wrong in internal work. It is clear that, rather than ralliing over the fact that it has taken too much time as a matter of urgency. It seems that the process has not really been anchored backwards. But I suppose you'll have to take that up internally. As far as nuclear weapons are concerned, it is bad enough that you get the wrong information when you ask questions if we have ensured that the B-52s flying over Sweden under Baltops are not packed with nuclear weapons. Then you answer that you assume that you comply with Swedish law, and so you refer to the Nuclear Technology Act. This is bad enough. However, since we do not ask and they do not answer, I have to say that it is not better that we should now prepare ports and airports in order to be able to receive materials, not only for peaceful exercises but also for crises and in war in Sweden or in the neighbourhood, that is, war we are not even involved in. We will prepare to receive aircraft, submarines, etc. also for attack in our immediate vicinity – undefined if it extends to the Baltics, Russia or even Afghanistan. That is my answer: this cannot be downplayed. It is not possible to say that this agreement does not really matter; it makes no difference. Then why don't we just let it go? It plays a very important role in the idea of our military freedom of alliance. It is not surprising that other countries are reacting. It is well recognised that the Minister for Defence is repeatedly asked if we are not entering NATO. He does not understand the questions and is deeply irritated by them, but the outside world looks much more at what we do than at what we say.
i-b8fca2160165a859-691	Madam President, I would like I have not claimed that this process has taken too long. On the other hand, I have said, and I think it is not going very quickly. That's the difference. Is there no difference, as Stig Henriksson says, between having the agreement and not having the agreement? I think the difference is that with the agreement we can focus on what is real military activity and have a proper discussion about what exercises we should and should not have. Then we focus our political strength on it rather than on the sometimes shadowy debate that is taking place on this agreement with statements from various quarters about what it could mean or have consequences. It is not the case, Madam President, that we will start to practice nuclear weapons either with or without this agreement. The Swedish attitude towards nuclear weapons is well known in the world. We also have a law from 1984 which means that in order to be allowed to bring nuclear materials into Sweden to request permission. I am not aware of any such requests concerning nuclear weapons at all. As I said, we are well acquainted with the Swedish attitude, and I assume that we also respect it. I believe that the disadvantages if any country did not respect that intention on the part of Sweden would be devastating for that country. I therefore believe that, out of pure self-preservation, there is an interest in various countries in respecting the Swedish attitude towards nuclear weapons.
i-b8fca2160165a859-695	Madam President, I would like At the close of his speech, Kenneth G. Forslund said that I am increasing the importance of the host country agreement. I don't think Kenneth G. Forslund really listened to what I said. I said that this is not a dramatic thing, that it is part of what we said in the Defence Preparation and Defence Arrangement, that it is a natural way for us to make it clear that we want to both give and receive help and that it increases opportunities to practice together. But I also said this: we participate in the NRF, the NATO Response Force. We're partners of NATO. We'll get the host country agreement in place, hopefully as soon as possible. But Sweden is not a NATO member. That's what I said. It is an important step that needs to be taken if we are to be credible. It would also strengthen our security and that of our neighbours, and it would contribute to greater security in our region. I asked a question that Kenneth G. Forslund might be able to answer. Before, it was clear that the purpose of our being non-aligned in peace was for us to be neutral in war. But that time has long passed. That purpose no longer exists. Then the question is: What is the purpose, Kenneth G Forslund?
i-RVrKpPMB8CKjFqxyAy9A3G	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, for the questions! Well, I listened very carefully to what Mikael Oscarsson said. However, I do not claim to have fully understood what Mikael Oscarsson said. That's another thing. One thing that Mikael Oscarsson said was that a NATO membership would give Sweden the opportunity to defend with NATO. Then, of course, I was curious. There is no doubt that Mikael Oscarsson wants us to join NATO and wants it so much that he also brings it up in the debate on the host country agreement. But what is it that Mikael Oscarsson longs to defend with NATO? It is a type of cooperation that I do not think Sweden should have with NATO. Sweden must have a Swedish defence planning and a Swedish preparedness. We're supposed to be militaryly non-aligned. Since 1992, that is the basis of our security policy, and so we shall continue to have it. I believe that in the geographical and historical situation in which Sweden finds itself, freedom of alliance is the best way for our country and for our neighbourhood. Different countries have different history, different experiences and different military traditions. Sweden and Finland have one. It contributes to the security policy situation and the mosaic in our part of the world. I think it is good that we have the roles that we have chosen to have, and I think we should choose to continue to have those roles. Other countries have chosen other paths based on their history and military tradition. I have full respect for it; I even support their choices.
i-iekhDYcwAYfGuWiBVCp4g	Madam President, I would like Kenneth G. Forslund wondered what defence planning could mean. We can think back on the Russian Easter three years ago, when six Russian planes came and practiced against targets in Sweden. What we learned afterwards, or at least what was said to the media, was that there were no pilots on duty. They were free. In fact, however, NATO pilots came up. NATO plan came up. After all, if you are a member of NATO, then you can cooperate. Then you can divide responsibilities, and that makes a huge difference compared to not having that planning. It is not difficult to understand, and I think that is one of the reasons why many Swedes have now changed their minds. They understand that this agreement does not create that security, either for us or for our neighbours. We're a partner country to NATO, but we don't have §5. We have not solved the insurance policy, and it should be solved before anything happens. That was the message of what the US ambassador to Sweden said: Look at Ukraine! They have a closer relationship with us than you do, but there's nothing we can do. Solve the insurance before anything happens! I still have no answer as to what is the purpose of being non-aligned or non-aligned when we are not going to be neutral. I'm getting a little confused. After all, it sounds as if the social democracy throughout the world is against NATO. But look at the neighbors – in Norway, in Denmark! Look at Jens Stoltenberg, Social Democrat! I think it is only a matter of time when the Social Democrats turn around, because this would create security for Sweden and our neighbourhood.
i-b8fca2160165a859-709	Madam President, I would like The fact that it is a matter of time before the Social Democrats change hands on the NATO issue has been argued by NATO advocates for many decades. I do not think it has come much closer. Mikael Oscarsson makes it sound as if I had said that social democrats all over the world would be anti-NATOs. That's not at all how you'd understand what I said. I pointed out that different countries in our neighbourhood have different history and different traditions, and they have therefore come to different conclusions. This also means that social democratic parties in our neighbourhood have come to various conclusions about what is best for their country. We can see this in Norway and Denmark, for example. According to Mikael Oscarsson, the Russian Easter is an example of how we would benefit from joint defence planning with NATO. There is clearly a difference of opinion. I believe that Sweden should and must be defended primarily by Sweden. It is Swedish defence planning and Swedish military personnel who will face the type of intrusion that occurred at the so-called Russian Easter. Had Mikael Oscarsson had another line, I might have been tempted to ask him during which government this happened, when Swedish personnel did not man the Swedish plan and went up and met the Russian aggression.
i-b8fca2160165a859-713	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected and the motion for a suspension to be rejected. Madam President, I would like After a long debate, however, I can see that there is broad political support in the Swedish Parliament for the host country agreement with NATO. All alliance parties and the government have clearly taken a stand in favour of the agreement. Unfortunately, but not unexpectedly, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party are opposed. Their actions help to reduce the credibility of Swedish security and defence policy. This calls for reflection in the difficult security policy situation that we find ourselves in. Moreover, it is difficult to see that there is any real basis for relying on the possibility to stay the proceedings. Madam President, I would like I had written in my speech manuscript, which was written long before this debate began, that this is not a debate on Swedish NATO membership. No, the matter is not about a Swedish NATO membership, but I have not only detected but also clearly noticed that this debate is also about a Swedish NATO membership. I will come back to this. What we can see, and what most of us agree on, is that our security is closely linked to the security of our neighbours. We also agree that the world around us is increasingly troubled. Along Europe's borders, countries are plagued by complex conflicts and even by decaying states. Since Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and its aggressive actions in eastern Ukraine, our neighbourhood is characterised by increasing tensions. Here in the Swedish Parliament there is a common understanding that we should build security in a community and in collaboration with other countries and organisations. It is through community and cooperation with others that we can resist the challenges and trials we face. It's even more important now. There is a parliamentary decision on a so-called solidarity declaration. That declaration of solidarity says that we will not remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes another EU Member State or a Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden were to suffer. Sweden should therefore be able to provide and receive both civilian and military support. That is what is at the heart of the agreement we are about to decide on today. If we are serious about our declaration of solidarity, we must also move from words to actions and strengthen the conditions for giving and receiving both civilian and military support. By approving the Memorandum of Understanding between Sweden and NATO, we strengthen Sweden's ability to provide and receive assistance in the event of a crisis and war. This makes it easier to carry out exercises together, which has been reviewed by several speakers here before. You can spend more time and effort on the content of the exercises and less time and effort on administration. We also know that well-functioning cooperation between the Swedish defence and NATO is crucial for how well we can carry out international peace-promoting efforts. The cooperation between countries in the type of crisis management and peace-promoting operations that Sweden has been involved in is based on the NATO standard. Madam President, I would like This Memorandum of Understanding is good. It is a step in the right direction in order to strengthen our ability to provide and receive civilian and military support. But some parts of the bill raise questions. I do not think they are relevant to the content of the agreement. As a result, we in the Alliance have written a special opinion. Although the Government of Propositi onen does not respond to critics, it responds to them by at least describing very much that the agreement does not contain. We find that unfortunate. It is a strange order in a bill that you describe everything that the agreement does not contain. The Minister of Defence has long and well described that there have been arguments that are perceived as untrue and inappropriate, but I and the rest of the Alliance do not think that they should have been included in the bill. Madam President, I would like Our security policy is based on building security in collaboration with others. It is good that we can adopt this agreement. This is an important step, not towards joining NATO, but in order to complete the declaration of solidarity that we have decided on. We Moderates, together with the other alliance parties, see that, unfortunately, this is not enough. In the troubled world we find ourselves in, we need even more cooperation, and we need something more than just hopes for help. A full Swedish NATO membership is what provides the guarantees that we need. It would seriously strengthen Sweden's security and also our ability to provide and receive support in the event of a crisis and war.
i-b8fca2160165a859-724	Mr President, I would like to I have to take this opportunity to ask you a question. Actually, I'd like to put it to Allan Widman too, but I didn't get that opportunity. On one issue here, Allan Widman said that we have taken a lot of steps towards NATO membership. The special opinion of the four bourgeois parties, however, says that the host country agreement in no way replaces and is not even a first step towards membership. I think this is in direct opposition to what Allan Widman said, and I am surprised that the Liberals are behind it anyway. My question will then be whether the Moderates support the particular opinion, or whether there is a thought that this is a step on the road to membership. My view was until I heard this that the text that we are now taking up is the one that applies. Of course, this is a special opinion, in which you can make a declaration of intent that you want to participate or not. There you can assert your opinion. But when you say the exact opposite in the speaker's chair, I think about how the Moderates really see it. Does the text say that this is not even a first step towards membership?
i-b8fca2160165a859-727	Mr President, I would like to It will be difficult for me, Åsa Lindestam, to interpret Allan Widman's thoughts on this – even if we sat next to each other during the debate. He must be allowed to do so himself. Of course I support this particular opinion. I also tried to be very clear in my speech. I think it's important. As a minister, I was pushing for, based on very clear reasoning in the Defence Committee, that we should take the first steps towards the Memorandum of Understanding. It was about the ÖB signing it at the NATO summit in Wales. Then the new government, the red-green government, has carried this out. I therefore welcome the fact that we are dealing with this matter in Parliament today. But let me be clear. For me, there is no substitute for any of the enhanced cooperation which I think is very positive and which we have with NATO for full membership. I know that it is of course important for the Social Democrats. However, as I said in my speech, this has also become a debate on NATO. I don't really get it. It feels quite often, not least after listening to the Minister for Defence, that the Social Democrats want to eat the cake and keep it. You want all the positive things you can get out of being very close to NATO in all its parts. But when it comes to Article 5, it becomes difficult. It is prepared to discuss deep alliances or cooperation with a non-NATO country. However, it is not prepared to do so with NATO. It's a little contradictory. But I hear what you're saying. It would be interesting to hear what Åsa Lindestam thinks about what the Minister for Defence said about how to relate to Russia.
i-b8fca2160165a859-731	Mr President, I would like to I don't really feel like I got the answer to the question as to whether this was a step along the way. I understand very well that Karin Enström cannot answer the question for the Liberals – I do not mean that she needs to do either. However, I would like to know how the Moderates view this. I think the decisions that Karin Enström made at the time when she was Minister of Defence were good. We have also agreed on these taken in the Defense Committee all the way and in the defense decision we took. So that is not the part I question. I would like to know exactly what it is like with regard to the text of the specific opinion. Are you completely behind this, or do you see it as a step along the way? I hope Karin Enström can be very clear and say whether the Moderates are behind it or not.
i-b8fca2160165a859-733	Mr President, I would like to I just thought I said that. Yes, we fully support a specific opinion that we have in the report. That is why we devote some energy to writing specific opinions and then having them in the report. It's just to read inside. This is important because there's a difference. That was also very clear to the Secretary of Defense. There's a difference between being a member and being a partner. The fact that there is a very good memorandum of understanding on host country aid and that administrative and technical issues are removed does not in any way mean that you are a member. I understand that it is important for the Social Democrats to keep that difference. At the same time, however, I hear not least from several of the Socialist representatives' arguments that it is a bit on the one hand and on the other. You want to eat the cake and keep it. Cooperation is positive. But what about Article 5 and the question of membership? Here I believe and hope that the Social Democrats will reconsider. You can listen to the argument now. It'll stick together. It holds together until you do everything with this important organization. But you do not want influence and you do not want to be covered by collective security guarantees. That's what I can't get together. I think it is rather I who want an answer from the Social Democrats. I can assure you that we support the particular opinion that we have written.
i-b8fca2160165a859-736	Mr President, I would like to I thought it was liberating to hear a former Minister of Defence who clearly defined what I pointed out earlier: that this is about being able to focus on the content and direction of the exercises once we have the agreement in place. However, I would like to address two questions to Karin Enström on the basis of what she said in her speech. Karin Enström thinks that a lot of things are written in the bill that do not belong here. It answers questions that do not really exist in the host country agreement – these include nuclear weapons. Of course, these criticisms and allegations would have existed even if Karin Enström had continued to be Minister of Defence after the previous elections. How would Karin Enström have wanted to deal with the criticisms, claims and rumours that are being spread? I think that would be quite interesting to know. Then comes my second question, Mr President. This is certainly not a NATO debate, but I believe that we are all waving round and round between debating what we are going to debate and debating NATO membership. For the sake of order, I must ask a question to a former Minister of Defence in a former bourgeois government that ruled the country for eight years– Karin Enström already understands what the question lands in. Why did the previous government not raise the question of the Member's pss? You had eight years. But the question became important only after you had stopped ruling. You get a definite sense of that.
i-b8fca2160165a859-740	Mr President, I would like to It's a counterfactual history description. You should start thinking about over and over and over – if not if had been. What would I have done now if I had been Secretary of Defense? Of course you have to answer questions, and you have to deal with criticism. We've been critical. For when you begin to describe everything as a decision is not, there is a risk that you will also make it easier for those who have this criticism. It can etched itself in the consciousness if you enter it in a bill. That is what we are critical of. I think it makes it less clean. I have not seen examples of other proposals on agreements describing what the agreements do not contain. The second question is quite simple to answer, Kenneth G. Forslund. I think Kenneth G. Forslund knows the answer. There are two very important factors in this. One is, of course, about the violent deterioration of the world situation. It is about what we have seen in recent years. What we have seen with regard to the Russian illegal annexation of Crimea and the aggression in eastern Ukraine, along with many other negative trends, is that we have a significantly deteriorating world situation. There are also four parties – in the past two parties in the government – think this is a good idea. Is it two parties in the government who think one thing and two parties think otherwise, it goes without saying that it will be quite difficult to pursue such an issue in a government position. Then the same conditions apply to any government: When and if such a decision is made, there should be a broad majority both among the population and in the Riksdag.
i-b8fca2160165a859-744	Mr President, I would like to Karin Enström answers that the bill answers these questions, the claims, about what the host country agreement means and that you should answer them without etched questions. Then Karin Enström has told us what she would not do. I am interested in what Karin Enström would like to do. What does Karin Enström think is the alternative to describing in the bill what this really isn't, based on the debate that exists? The fact that the issue of NATO membership is being actively pursued after the government has been released is partly due to the fact that there are now four parties instead of two. Is it to be interpreted as meaning that you would have begun to push the issue even when you were in government if there had been a consensus in the previous government?
i-b8fca2160165a859-747	Mr President, I would like to This is starting to be a debate with a lot of conditions, if not if it had been and so on. It almost feels as if Kenneth G. Forslund had hoped that we would have stayed, just to see what would have happened. But let's not make fun of this. As far as the proposal for the agreement itself is concerned, I maintain what we have written in our particular opinion. I think it was unfortunate to etched a lot of myths about what that agreement does not contain, because it leads the thoughts in the wrong direction. The second is how to push forward security and defence policies. We have a good tradition of being as united as possible and having a common understanding of it. Whether it is a host country agreement or a future NATO membership, it is something that requires a broad majority in Parliament and a broad majority of the Swedish people and, of course, also close cooperation with our neighbour Finland.
i-b8fca2160165a859-750	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Defence talks a little sweepingly about misinformation and the spread of reputation in the debate on the host country agreement. I assume that he does not refer to former Foreign Minister Hans Blix, May Britt Theorin, who led the Swedish Disarmament Commission in the 1980s, former Defence Minister Thage G. Peterson, with several well-known politicians, diplomats and researchers, as well as many non-profit organisations and citizens who from different perspectives expressed criticism and concern about the process and the consequences of concluding host country agreements with NATO without analysing the security policy implications and without clarifying a number of important uncertainties. Perhaps the fears that I and many have with me are unwarranted. If so, it is excellent. So, then, let us take the time to sort out the legal conflicts and the uncertainties and to get a sound basis for decision, including a security policy analysis, before we make a decision. What, then, are the problems? Much has been said, but I would like to touch briefly on the most serious. The whole process suffers from a monumental democratic deficit. For example, how do our indigenous Sami and people who live around Vättern and the southern archipelago of Gothenburg see that it is even easier to carry out war exercises in their area, where there are already extensive military practice activities with a great impact on the environment and opportunities to do, for example, reindeer nutrition? We do not know, because they have not been asked. Nor were the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency or the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate consultation bodies during the short consultation round that took place in the middle of the summer of last year, despite the fact that the US and the EU in military activities allow toxic chemicals that are banned in Sweden. Another thing is the Access Regulation, a current Swedish law that prohibits other countries from carrying out combat control or firing weapons from Swedish territory and severely limits which forces from warring parties may be present here. How these bans are to be reconciled with the agreement's demand for support even in times of crisis and war is unsolved. Mr President, I would like to Olof Palme talked about the concept of common security and that such a one is built by definition with its potential opponents. Peace researchers tend to stress the importance of changing perspectives and putting themselves in the shoes of the opposite. It is not too far-fetched that certain clauses of the agreement are interpreted as meaning that Sweden is opening up for NATO to attack Russian territory from ours. This, of course, threatens to drive the Russian rearmament. We are faced with the classic security dilemma: a measure aimed at greater security is perceived by the opposite party as a reason for countermeasures that reduce security for both parties. Further rapprochement with NATO undermines the credibility of Swedish military alliance freedom and thereby reduces our foreign policy freedom of action. During the Cold War, the So Vjet Union was a great threat – row me, I know! My family from Estonia paid a high price; my grandfather died as a slave worker in Gulag. If we did not even then approach NATO as far as the host country agreement actually does for us, I wonder why we should do it now. I think that question needs to be answered. Mr President, I would like to There are more serious unresolved legal problems. As far as nuclear weapons are concerned, it is not enough to rely on political goodwill to ensure that they do not enter Swedish territory under any circumstances. Current government will never allow that to happen, but we cannot know how future governments will act. They may be under strong pressure in a crisis or a war situation, and at worst they may also have a more permissive attitude toward these weapons. Since we cannot see into the future, we must have a law that expressly prohibits nuclear weapons, just as Finland does. Our current legislation, the Nuclear Act, is intended to regulate civil nuclear technology. It prohibits the introduction of nuclear products without special authorisation, and it is the government that can grant authorisation. Unfortunately, therefore, I can only see that the host country agreement actually opens up to the unthinkable: that nuclear weapons may be allowed on Swedish territory. In addition, Sweden, as has been said before, has no tools to follow up compliance with the law. In plain language, we would already need the right to inspect warships built to carry nuclear weapons, but we do not. Nor have we called for it to be incorporated into the agreement. Another important issue that has also been raised here is that the host country agreement means that secret follow-up agreements can be drawn up, including on base areas. We do not know how these might interfere with our rights and freedoms. Mr President, I would like to It is not too late to redo and do the right thing! In view of this, I support Mr Amin's and my motion to revoke the host country agreement, i.e. motion 2015/ 16:2801. If it does not receive majority support, I intend to support the suspension request.
i-b8fca2160165a859-764	Mr President, I would like to I think I am the 15th speaker in this solid debate on the security policy of the period, perhaps the most interesting position we are facing. We have taken several decisions, and we will certainly take more, but this is one of the more debated and also prepared dossiers. In the last six months, as an individual Member, I have received many greetings about what this agreement actually means. You talk about constitutional changes, and you talk about nuclear weapons. You talk about exercises and wars. Many describe this as that Sweden is really facing a great destruction. I have received many fine greetings as well, and I have been thinking about whether everyone has read what this means. Have you read the government proposal before writing debate articles and speaking in many different places? I don't think you always have. It may also be that many politicians have not yet studied in depth all the details and points contained in this host country agreement. There are many perspectives that have been highlighted today. A reflection I make is if all the critical contributions from both environmentalists and Swedish democrats as well as left-wing parties really are correct. In that case, it is appropriate to consider how Finland could take a stand for a host country agreement if it becomes a step closer to NATO, if it involves a greater security policy risk, if it alters our alliance freedom. Sweden builds security and stability best together with other countries and with organisations. We have heard this repeated both today and in previous debates. It's important. It is about how we face the threat that may exist to peace and our security. We see that we avert it best together and in collaboration. We see a changed security policy Europe. We see that the situation is gradually deteriorating. I attended a Nordic Defence Conference during the weekend and at the beginning of the week together with the Baltic countries, Poland and the Nordic countries. It is clearly urgent to continue to follow and reflect on the picture of what is happening in the Arctic and in and around Russia. It is no coincidence that the Baltic countries are gradually strengthening their defence appropriations and will pass the 2% level of the GDP share. We must take this very seriously. Who really knows what the innermost strategy is when it comes to the Russian leadership and what is planned in the next step? We have a declaration of solidarity that is central to our country's security policy. We cannot and should not be passive if a disaster or an attack should hit another EU country or a Nordic country. We expect this to be mutual — that we too should be helped. We have a broad agreement and support for this in Parliament. The host country agreement is a summary concept – a framework agreement, as we have heard. These are both civilian and military aid provided in peacetime, crisis and war by one nation to another nation or organisation, which, following an active invitation to practice, transit or action, is located on the territory of the host country. We must have a capacity for host country support. It is a prerequisite for both providing and receiving military support. In the bill we can read that NATO has entered into some 25 host country agreements with various member and partner countries, including Finland. We are an active part of NATO's work in building preparedness, and we want to develop the exercise activities and our cooperation. NATO is a key and very important player for European security and for our security. It is the only organisation that gives our Swedish defence capabilities interoperability. NATO's standard forms the basis for Nordic defence work and is a prerequisite for the Swedish Armed Forces to continue to develop their capabilities. The agreement covers many parts. These are fundamental principles and procedures. It will be able to be used in many different situations, but the purpose – once again – is to ensure that Sweden as a host country can provide effective support for military activities on Swedish territory in connection with exercises, crises or operations in Sweden. But it's voluntary. As we have heard both the Minister and others talk about and as stated in the bill, this is only applicable when Sweden has first taken a national decision. This does not give NATO the right or the obligation to operate on Swedish territory, because it is when Sweden decides whether NATO-led activities should take place here that it can happen. It is therefore important to follow each separate follow-up agreement and then follow up both details and large parts of the content. I would like to draw attention to a few points which relate to many good contributions but also to interventions in the debate which make me considerate. I was invited to a defence and security seminar in Gothenburg a few months ago. The environmental party's foreign policy spokesperson Valter Mutt then spoke and said that if the Green Party had its own majority, we would certainly not be able to see a host country agreement being discussed in this House. The image and credibility of the government's security line is not as clear anymore when you take note of the various arguments and contributions that come from the Green Party. It builds inconsistency and does not generate long-term security. The Swedish democrats, for their part, caused a motion last autumn, and I was going to read it out. The Swedish Democrats proposed that the Swedish Parliament vote in favour of a host country agreement. So it was last autumn – the same parliamentary year. These three commitments do not commit, they do not comply with any requirements for aid to other countries or for us to have to leave our territory. In conclusion, the HNS, the host country agreement, is giving us an additional opportunity if war puts us in an extremely strained position. Björn Söder argues that the alliance parties lack analytical capacity. I am sure that the Swedish Democrats have the ability to analyse, but the question is what conclusions you draw when they become so different at such, relatively, short intervals. A few months or days can change the situation drastically, but the conclusions are not clear from the Swedish Democrats on how to view the host country agreement. I understand that this may be a question that divides a party, but what exactly does the detour in the party look like? What is the long-term view of this issue? I have heard Björn Söder clearly say that it will vote against. It is interesting to take note of the history that characterises this working year and also how the party leader acts on the matter. Mr President, I would like to My time is running out, but this is basically an important framework agreement. It will support our continued work and cooperation on issues that are important for Swedish defence and security policy and not least for the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to develop in the long term. I support the proposal and reject the reservations and the motion proposed for a resolution is approved at today's sitting.
i-b8fca2160165a859-784	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström asked it, possibly rhetorical, if you have read the bill. I do not know who he was referring to, but surely my observation, having been involved in several debates in the spring, is that discussions in different ways and perhaps debates in this House too, is that at least the opponents seem to have read the bill and a lot of other things as well. But perhaps the question was addressed to someone else. Daniel Bäckström mentioned Finland as a good example. Actually, I don't think it is. In Finland, the parliament has not been bothered to raise the issue, but the government has decided on it on its own, when it had that opportunity. I don't think it's an ideal, if you say so. Speaking of Finland, it may be interesting, as it is often called that the devil lives in the details. I don't really think there are any details. The framework agreement is like an unusually wide splint fence, and it is difficult to really understand what it means. In Finland, there are currently 57 additional points to their host country agreement. All are of course classified and even there, just as it will be here, not bothered by the views of the Riksdag. These are the things that come and that you just have to swallow that day. I will not say that I am particularly surprised that a centre party wants to buy the pig in the sack in this way, but it is at least close at hand to thinking about it. I'd like to ask Daniel Bäckström a few questions. If we lift our eyes, what historical examples are there of intensifying exercises, armaments and militarisation, leading to peace? What historical examples are there that military alliances have not led to war? Just take World War I as an example. How does Daniel Bäckström and the Center Party view this?
i-b8fca2160165a859-789	Mr President, I would like to If I have understood Stig Henriksson's questions correctly, they are about how we view the importance of alliances for peace and security and how they can prevent and create long-term stability. It is quite clear that NATO is not the driving force behind an active armament policy. Nor is Sweden doing so. But we must relate to what is happening in our neighbourhood. The security strategy adopted on New Year's Eve in Russia shows that they have a clear ambition to increase their defence capabilities and to implement the plan and its many different elements. We must relate to the consequences it has for us and our neighbourhood. When you listen to the countries in our neighbourhood that are part of the Alliance, that is NATO, you understand that there is both good intention and openness in inviting continued dialogue on what promotes peace and security. You don't want to build walls. It does not seek to spend even more money on the defense. But it will be a consequence when there is a clear violation and closure in the neighbouring country to the east. For me and the Center Party, NATO membership is a fundamental and important step towards contributing to stability in the Baltic Sea region, in our immediate region. It is also a step towards helping others to have a long-term, peaceful and stable security situation. As far as Finland is concerned, we can see that they have managed to manage the freedom of alliance.
i-b8fca2160165a859-794	Mr President, I would like to Renovation, military alliances and so on will thus contribute to stability in our neighbourhood. I allow myself to doubt that it works that way, no matter how many times you say it. Daniel Bäckström points out that it is not NATO that is carrying out reconstruction. That's quite an astounding statement. Looking at the figures, you can see that the United States alone accounts for about 35 percent of the world's armaments costs. Russia accounts for 4.8%. I guess that's what some people say. The Center Party has had a fine tradition of maintaining alliance freedom and neutrality in war and has maintained it until at least last autumn. Is not the concrete wording of the agreement for Daniel Bäckström, which, like us, has read it? We are to use the agreement and use it in crises and in war in Sweden or in the local area, i.e. in wars in which Sweden is not an active participant, from the beginning in any case. But I guess we'll be soon. It continues to be stated in another paragraph under NATO-led military activity: NATO activities to be conducted from Sweden include attacks on third parties. There's an attack. Does not the idea that Sweden is signing an agreement aimed at enabling us also to wage an attack war with the aid of the NATO military alliance against third countries? In view of the history and the sense and balance that tend to characterise the views of the Center Party on many other issues, I cannot quite understand this.
i-b8fca2160165a859-799	Mr President, I would like to We end up in parallel debates at the same time, on both NATO and the host country agreement. But when it comes to what image the Left Party wants to convey of security policy developments, there are also quite a few questions. This is how they describe Russia's ambitions, actions and military capability development. I do not think that we should marginalise the development that is taking place, as Stig Henriksson often does here in the speaker's chair. For example, he compares the proportions between Russia and the United States based on historical decisions. It would certainly have been best if Russia had not activated its armament policy. But now we have to deal with the fact that they have. It is extremely fundamental and serious. They have shown in recent years what they are prepared and capable of doing. Dialogue, diplomacy and broad cooperation and collaboration are important issues for us in the Center Party. Given the situation in Europe and in and around the Baltic Sea, we see that cooperation and cooperation actively contribute to stabilising the situation, that we work closely with NATO. It will be even more important, as support to our neighbours. But we should also think for ourselves long-term in order to strengthen our defence capabilities and provide clarity in terms of security policy challenges and how to meet them. I hope that in future decisions Stig Henriksson and the Left Party will also contribute to active budget strengthening measures for a stable continuation.
i-b8fca2160165a859-803	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by responding to the Alliance's questioning that we have changed our minds on this. I would like to remind myself that two years ago, the Center Party became a supporter of NATO. You might think it wasn't a big change. But we perceived it as a gigantic change — a change of opinion. You can change your mind quickly or in the long term. We had a different view earlier. We gathered, went through new information and made a new decision. And there we are now. Regarding the Alliance's ability to perform accurate analyses, Kerstin Lundgren is one of the major security risks. In what way? Well, she was involved in dismantling the Swedish defence. The systems were destroyed. She took part in this and then thinks that others pose a security risk. Now the Alliance is increasingly adapting to our proposals. We're considering putting up turning doors to the copy room. This is also the case with this policy. It is also interesting that, for example, Allan Widman says that this is a step closer to NATO. It's good that you're clear about that. But on page 16 of the special opinion, the Moderates, Centers, Liberals and Christian Democrats write: ..................................................... That's what you're writing on p. 16. But in this House you claim that we are now so close to NATO that there is only one step left to membership, is there not? But in the report you are writing something quite different. Is it credible? Are you turning your heels? Mr President, I would like to I'm going to go over to what I was going to say from the beginning. How can Swedish defence and defence will be affected? It's another entry line. Will the defense be stronger and more adapted to the defence of our territory? Or does it increase the risk that the defence will continue to adapt to NATO intervention operations, in line with NATO's strategy? Will the defense be affected in that direction? We have approached NATO gradually, through participation in major military exercises. That's right. That's it. It has also increased our ability in many ways. We allow American reconnaissance planes to fly across our territory and so on. It's an adjustment. It's permissive. Does it have any effect on security policy? Yes, of course it will. We can see that clearly. Russia acts and reacts. It was not long since we had Chinese warships in the Baltic Sea. You know that they are working with Russia a lot more and more intensively? Is anything happening? Yes, it does. The host country agreement being prepared is also a major step towards rapprochement and cooperation with NATO. So do we. That is why we say no to this. This means a completely different dimension in the possibility of conducting exercises – right up to the fall of war. It also enables the use of military facilities and forces under NATO officers on Swedish territory. It's different from before. It is also about transits of such forces on Swedish territory. I haven't found any restrictions on weapons or on the size of the forces. If you've found it, get up in the speaker's room and talk about it so I'll be happy to listen. The Swedish Government or its representative must, of course, give permission for any such exercise. But once NATO has been invited in peace, for example, and if it passes into crisis and perhaps into war, they will remain here and will, of course, be fought. But no one has denied it either. With regard to the unilateral Swedish declaration of solidarity, I had hoped that Mr Oscarsson would come here and present his plan of attack. For he believes that we should go to war if an attacker goes towards the Baltics. Then Sweden will go to war. When we send troops there, we go to war with the country that attacks them, and then it blows in Sweden. You agree, but you buy it. We have a different view. Finland says that it is prepared to give all support, but not military. Is Finland further from the Baltic States than Sweden? No, it doesn't. But they are clear and say that they have no more resources than to defend Finland. They have nothing to send. That's clarity. But we create uncertainty through the declaration of solidarity. It is said that the declaration of solidarity has been approved by Parliament. I guess that's true to a certain extent. But it was implicated in the orientation bill, and, as far as I know, it has not been much discussed here in Parliament. This rubbery declaration is now cited as a central motive for the host country agreement, and it is directly dangerous. The Finnish position is clear, as I have just said. According to the Finnish President, it is not a question of being unsolidary towards the Baltics. Instead, he emphasises the protection of the territory of his own country. It is important to contribute to the detour in our part of the Baltic Sea," he says. With these proposals, defence may be directed towards NATO cooperation at the expense of national defence, which may affect the will of the defence and make it more difficult to restore universal military service. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist writes in the Council of Law referral that we should have a credible national defence capability. Of course we share this. But we think it is being undermined when he says in the same breath that it should be based on international cooperation in the EU and increased cooperation in the Nordic region, in the Baltic Sea region, in the UN, in the OSSE, in NATO and in the transatlantic link. Nothing is said here about building a defence of the country's territory. Nor is action within the framework of the agreement conditional on collective self-defence. When the Eastern States joined NATO after the fall of the Wall, they promised to increase their defence costs. It wasn't done. Almost all NATO members gradually reduced their defence efforts, relying on their being under NATO protection. That's it. None of the states, except Estonia, still had military service. Estonian officers were trained in Finland, where military service was maintained. So did Estonia. This is not at all in line with NATO's orientation, in which the military powers of the Member States should fit into the composite NATO forces as response forces and not primarily for their own country's territorial defence. This is where we think you're going wrong. The Prime Minister of Estonia has also been criticized for maintaining an insanity about an anti-popular territorial defence. Do you ever read this? In Norway it is a bit mixed. It is a member of NATO. Step by step, the task of protecting the entire territory has been phased out and has focused on advanced and costly bombers as well as mobile special forces on the ground, all at the expense of territorial defence. We have spoken in this House that Finland has also signed the declaration of solidarity. But on what does it rest? Finnish President Sauli Niinistö has said: Finland's security rests on four pillars: its own defence capabilities, cooperation with Sweden and the USA, and good cooperation with Russia. On the basis of these criteria, future invitations to military exercises will be tested. What kriterie do we have? I can't find any, and that worries me. We should follow Finland there and set clear guidelines. There is a trial on the basis of these every time, even with regard to Russia. Swedish defence is for their own country. NATO's interest is essentially on two levels. Access to Sweden's territory in order to be able to deploy forces for operations in the Baltic States is their main interest. It is also about the incorporation of the Swedish system with JAS, submarines and radar systems that can fit into NATO's forces as puzzle pieces. The NATO leadership does not support Member States building up anti-popular territorial defences. With the host country agreement, NATO can come to Sweden's help if the government requests it – yes. But NATO can also say no. It will then be decisive if the main NATO states, particularly the United States, believe that it is in their interests. Of course, I am in favour of our own reservations.
i-b8fca2160165a859-832	Mr President, I would like to I did not intend to ask for a reply, but unfortunately I was apostrophated and I felt compelled to do so and prolong the debate. It is interesting to hear the Swedish Democrats talk about turning doors. I listened to the last word to see if there would be a new turn at the door or whether they would stand by their message yesterday, namely that they would not insist on a suspension. We will see what happens during the vote. If there is something that the Swedish Democrats have given a face, it is that you do not really know where they stand, except in an area of course where it is about Sweden closing the doors outwards. There should be no opening. This applies, of course, when we talk about host country agreements. Sweden should be on its own, and Sweden should not make any efforts beyond its borders. Mr President, I would like to What is sad is that the Swedish Democrats have not realised that in the world today there is no country that can build security alone, but it is about building security together with others. That is what the host country agreement is about. I would be concerned if I were Minister of Defence and based my position on freedom of alliance after hearing this debate. The Swedish Democrats do not want a solidarity clause, and they do not want to build security together with others. The Left Party is also moving in that direction. This indicates that there is a need for a change in Swedish security policy, and the Swedish Democrats cannot contribute to this. They represent a security risk, Mr President – for us who live here, but also for our neighbours.
i-b8fca2160165a859-836	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we want to change the declaration of solidarity in such a way that we want to remove military support. The Center, the KD and the Alliance want to go to war, but where are your attack plans? You have signed the declaration of solidarity now. I'll question where your attack plans are. Because you're going to help, aren't you, as you've written in the explanation? You've got attack plans. You're going to air-land, right? Don't you guys have any preparations? No, you haven't. You're not doing anything, Kerstin Lundgren. You are doing absolutely nothing to achieve this. After all, the Declaration of Solidarity lacks the basis for reality and can put our entire freedom of alliance at risk. Should it be credible at some point in the future, an attacker must expect it to apply, and then it is just as good to cut Sweden directly – right? An attacker thinks: If we attack there, Sweden declares us war, according to Kerstin Lundgren ; thus we can equal Feel free to hit Sweden directly. Unfortunately, that analytical ability lacks Kerstin Lundgren. We've got a few other things I might have to deal with in the next line, if I have time for that.
i-b8fca2160165a859-840	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to go into Roger Richtoff's analytical skills and analyze it deeper. I note that last Sunday the Swedish Democrats had a view after having analysed and that on Wednesday you had a different view. When you were exercising, you had an opinion, and when you insist today, you have a different view. We will see how you have voted when we can analyse that result. It is, of course, based on a large analytical capacity and capacity of the Swedish Democrats. I can only emphasise that you pose a security risk to us here and to our neighbours. You also pose a security risk to our Finnish neighbours, who already have the host country agreement. What you hear when you listen to the Swedish Democrats in this debate and in other debates is Putin's voice. When it was referred to the four pillars of President Niinistö and the interpretation the Swedish Democrats make, it was almost so that I heard that the Swedish Democrats want Sweden to practice together with Russia. You pose a security risk, and anyone listening to you should really draw conclusions from this.
i-b8fca2160165a859-843	Mr President, I would like to What we are voting on today will be the motion we tabled.
i-b8fca2160165a859-844	We've filed a motion. That's it. What about saying no to the rest declaration, Kerstin Lundgren? That's who you mean, because you've forgotten it and you're referring to different changes. We had a focus on supporting the Left Party's proposals; that is correct. But when we met yesterday and carefully reviewed it, with further evidence, we came to the conclusion that it probably will not be the result we were looking for. That's when we made that decision. That it doesn't fit Kerstin Lundgren, I don't care about anything, and neither do the Swedish Democrats. You've always been a security risk, Kerstin Lundgren. You completely destroyed the Swedish defense. Was that a security risk? No, not according to you. That's the analytical ability you had. You're saying we should stop at the borders. After all, everyone is now beginning to adapt to our policy in this area too. Now you must have water cannons and so on. It's time to open our swing doors to the copier room. Welcome in! Take part of that policy, and it will go a little faster for you!
i-b8fca2160165a859-848	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating what applies to mammography screening. In order for all women affected by breast cancer to discover it as early as possible, it is important that we follow the current mammography screening. In Stockholm County Council we have fairly good experience of how the screening works and how the fee affects women's willingness to participate in the screening programme. When you had a fee of SEK 50, the participation in the mammography was about 70 percent. When the fee was increased to SEK 140, the participation was about 70 per cent. The number of participants varies widely, and we know that those coming from socio-economically weaker groups are less involved. It's a huge problem. It is a problem that only 70% participate in mammography screening. The Christian Democrats have repeatedly advocated, locally, in regions and county councils, having a low or no fee to remove it as an obstacle to participating in mammography screening. But we know from experience that it is not primarily the fee that affects. The removal of a fee hardly affects participation at all in a few years' time, and a sharp increase in a fee does not have much effect over a few years. Therefore, we are concerned when the government proposes that so much resources be used nationally for what is actually a regional responsibility – a county council responsibility. That is to say, there is a risk that we will not do what we know has a greater impact on what we actually want to achieve, that is, to remove inequality. We want to remove what makes those who come from a socio-economically weaker group actually participate to a lesser extent in mammography screening and thus also have a higher risk of dying of breast cancer. On the Christian Democrats' side, we have therefore exercised that we do not want the state to commit itself to this. This does not mean that we at the local level do not see that there can sometimes be good reasons to remove the fee – to the extent that other important things are also being done to increase participation in the mammography. One of the most important is what the calling looks like. It should be available in several languages, and it should be educationally written so that everyone can understand what it is and why it is so important to go there and be screened even if they do not feel sick. It is definitely also important to send reminders. This is the most important lesson from Stockholm County Council, which has really investigated this for a long period of years. The time we in the statistics can see that there really was a decline in participation in mammography screening is when you didn't send reminders. The Government proposal proposes that, based on the current recommendations of the National Board of Health and Welfare, there should be an upper age limit of 74 years. We Christian Democrats also see this as very problematic – perhaps the single most problematic. There is a great risk that it will send the signal to the person who is 74 years of age that the risk is now over; now there is no longer any risk of suffering from breast cancer and will die prematurely because of breast cancer, and therefore there is no need to control the risk of developing tumours. In its recommendations, the National Board of Health and Welfare has this age limit because it is said that there are no studies showing that it is reasonable to have screening after 74 years of age, but it is because it has been difficult to do studies on older people. We also know that, since the National Board of Health and Welfare made these recommendations, there have been studies that actually show that mortality continues to increase after 75 years of age and that there could therefore be just as strong reasons to continue screening after 75 years of age. We therefore call for our joint reservation No 1.
i-b8fca2160165a859-857	Mr President, I would like to More or less all of us are somehow affected by cancer. It may be personal, family or friends, but we all suffer in some way. In Sweden, the number of cancer cases since 1970 has increased by over 40 per cent, taking into account population and age structure. Of course, the increase may be due to the fact that we are getting older. It may also be because we have found better methods for diagnosing and detecting cancer. And what today's debate is about is precisely freedom of charge for certain screenings in health care. The number of people who today survive cancer is constantly increasing. There are of course many challenges, but of course many opportunities, and one possibility is screening. Today we are debating screening for breast cancer, so-called mammography. Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer among women. Approximately 7,000 women in Sweden annually suffer from breast cancer. This means that every day nearly 20 people are diagnosed. Every six hours a woman in Sweden dies of breast cancer. The Swedish Cancer Society presented its annual report on the situation of cancer in Sweden a few weeks ago. It is a disappointing report which shows, among other things, that breast cancer is constantly increasing. But, as I said, there are flashes of light, and one of them is that breast cancer can be cured to an increasing extent. But then early detection is a prerequisite, and then mammography plays a major and crucial role. We are therefore positive, Mr President, that the government is now proposing free mammography, because we want to remove any obstacles that may exist for women to go to mammography so that they can be put into treatment early on. Mammography is important precisely for early detection and a crucial factor. Unfortunately, only half of Sweden's county councils today offer mammography to women between the ages of 40 and 49. Other county councils offer it at the earliest after the age of 50. For us, it is obvious that a man as a woman should receive equal care no matter where in the country he lives. It shouldn't matter. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, national coordination and consensus on screening are important to create the conditions for equal care, and that is exactly what this proposal is about. And increased participation in a screening programme is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of the programme, i.e. achieving a health effect among the population. From a poor societal perspective, breast cancer is the form of cancer that costs society most in absolute terms if you include direct and indirect costs, as the Swedish Cancer Society also shows in its report. This suggests that a relatively small effort such as providing free mammography on the part of society can also save us many crowns of taxes in the end, in addition to the most important thing, that it actually saves more lives. We believe it is important to lift all stones as far as possible from a political point of view and encourage participation in mammography. It is about providing the right incentives for participation and saving as many lives as possible. If another life can be saved, it is enough to justify the effort. Compared to many other expenditures in health care and in society, this is small money in this context. A study presented in an article in Läkartidningen, which is also referred to in the report on cancer care, states that when the fee for mammography was removed in Stockholm County, participation in the county increased by 3 per cent. You might think that 3 percent sounds a bit, but in this case it is about 6 000 more women in Stockholm County going and controlling themselves. It is also noted that the proportion of foreign-born and socio-economically weak groups increased by up to 6 per cent. The authors of the study conclude that the exemption of fees has led to increased participation in the areas with the lowest participation in the past and that the reduction in fees has therefore also contributed to greater equality. I'm sure there are many reasons why a woman chooses not to go to mammography when called. There is certainly a need for further information and also for increased accessibility on the part of healthcare professionals. However, we can see that the cost of mammography can be an obstacle. Mr President, I would like to To be opposed to free mammography with the argument that there is no direct link between the free-of-charge and the frequency of visits from socio-economically weak groups does not hold up. It is enough, as we see it, for a single woman to choose not to do so because of the cost of introducing free-of-charge. We believe that freedom of charge for mammography is a way of achieving equal care. Mr President, I would like to However, we are a little concerned that the county councils that do not go financially well to save money may draw attention to how often you can go on mammography if it is free of charge. It must not be the case that mammography visits are offered less often than today, so that the county councils that today offer mammography every 18 months instead choose to offer it every 24 months. Then the proposal has had the wrong effect and has become counterproductive. If the mammography is free of charge but you never get a summons, then the freedom of charge does not play a major role. We would therefore like to stress the importance of ensuring that it does not lead to less stringent controls, but rather that all county councils call women more often, i.e. every 18 months rather than every 24 months. Mr President, I would like to We want mammography to be offered to people older than 74. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1. In its report, the Swedish Cancer Society points out that cancer also affects women over 74 years of age but that these women are not currently offered mammography. The report shows that as many as 1,986 cases of breast cancer in women over 74 years of age were reported in 2014. Against this background, we believe that it is obvious that care must offer women over 74 years of age mammography. That is why we want the opportunity to offer it to them to be reviewed. The Government's proposal states that the survey should be free of charge in order to increase participation in economically weak groups. Nevertheless, the government chooses to set an upper age limit of 74 years. It's nothing but age discrimination. The most economically vulnerable pensioners are thus penalised with a contribution in this case. Nevertheless, it is written that the survey should be free of charge in order to increase participation in economically weak groups. Here the government takes a clear stand by not including guarantee pensioners in the group financially weak. It's both amazing and interesting. Mr President, I would like to The proposal on free screening is a good one. On the other hand, we cannot support the age discrimination that is actually a question of having an upper age limit. This means excluding one woman in five who suffers from breast cancer. It should be borne in mind that breast cancer is a type of cancer where the risk of being affected increases with age. For me, then, an upper age limit becomes even more incomprehensible. Mr President, I would like to Let me give you a brief summary: I am in favour of reservation 1, I find it incomprehensible that you have an upper age limit and I find it absolutely incredible that you can be against free mammography.
i-b8fca2160165a859-880	Mr President, I would like to Early detection of cancer often makes a difference to the success of treatment. That can be the difference between cure and a severe incurable disease. For some cancers it is possible to detect the disease through screening before it has gone too far. Precisely breast cancer in women is one of these diseases. It is a great challenge to get all women to go and do a mammography survey. As we have heard before, there are a number of women who, for various reasons, do not come. This can prevent the cancer from being detected in time, which can lead to its inability to cure. A lot of work is being done to figure out what makes so many women choose not to go and do mammography. Some point to a lack of availability, long distances, difficulty in booking appointments and, not least, the language barrier – you do not understand what is in the notice. In addition, the fee may be decisive. In the autumn's budget, the government chose to say that the fact that it is not free everywhere is the most important thing, so that you go in with money. The Center Party did not make this assessment for several reasons. First of all, it is the health authorities, the county councils, who are responsible for the priorities to be made in healthcare – what is most important to do and in which areas to possibly remove patient fees. There are a number of county councils that have already removed the fee for mammography. Nowhere in the bill does the government present an analysis of why it is precisely the mammography fee of all patient fees that should be lifted. Is this the most important measure to be taken in health care? I have no idea because the government does not present any analysis whatsoever. We are also reluctant to take this step because it is not known whether it is precisely the fee that causes women to abstain. However, our most serious objection to this proposal is the age limit for women over 74. If the Riksdag makes this decision, we send two dubious signals to older women in Sweden. The first concerns the economy. The Parliament sends the signal to women over 74 years of age that they are not worth spending government tax money on. It is a bit strange because women over 74 years of age often have the toughest financial situation. The second signal is even more serious. The Swedish Parliament sends the signal to Swedish women over 74 years of age that it is not so important that they go to mammography. If you are under 75, it is important to go to mammography, but if you are over 75, it is not necessary because the risk of cancer may be slightly less. It is a perfectly dangerous signal because we know that 1 900 of the 8 300 women who fall ill each year are over 74 years old. That means they've crossed the screening limit. This means that the Riksdag sends a signal that it is not so important for them to go to screening. The reason for the border is not that the National Board of Health and Welfare has said that this is not the case but that it is difficult to conduct studies on women over 75 years of age. That is why this limit has been set. Mr President, I would like to This parliamentary decision will be directly counterproductive. It sends a dangerous signal to women older than 74 not to do mammography. The Center Party does not believe that the parliament and government should make this kind of decision. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1 in paragraph 2.
i-b8fca2160165a859-895	Mr President, I would like to I will first highlight that Sweden was the country under the leadership of the National Board of Health and Welfare and researchers that X-ray doctor Laszlo Tabar in Falun produced convincing evidence that breast cancer could be detected earlier and reduced mortality in women through a mammography medical examination. It was published on 15 February 1985. However, it was rather laborious to convince the county councils of the value of early detection, so a number of us toiled, not least the Liberal Party, for there to be a national implementation of mammography. The fact that we do not go for free is because we think that if the state is to take over the financial responsibility for some of the county councils' health care, it should be done in a broader context. That is why we have our opinion. I'm going to focus on the age limit. The study presented in 1985 proved that it was in the age range 50 - 69 years that mammography was valuable. For the younger age group 20 - 50 and the older age group 70 - 74, it took a little longer to obtain convincing data. This study, conducted in Östergötland and Dalarna, did not cover a wider age group than that. The health care system has made it possible for everything to be evidence-based. Some studies have come from abroad that show that 75-year-old women and the elderly can benefit from early detection through mammography. However, these are not major studies. That is why it has been stubbornly said that it offers mammography up to 74 but not thereafter. This reaction to the Swedish Cancer Society in 2009 was seen in the statistics as a significant number of women aged 75 years and older become ill. The cancer doesn't know chronological age limits. It was also seen that the treatment results were worse. This was partly due to the fact that the tumours were discovered later and partly due to the use of less effective treatment for these women. Age discrimination really showed its ugly face. In 2013, we received a law against age discrimination, and if you are to set chronological age limits, there should be very strong reasons for that. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's proposal for screening not only of breast cancer, but also of cancer in the womb and intestinal cancers. It was found that it should be possible to extrapolate the results of the studies in women under 75 by using certain scientific methods. Now I would like to read out what the National Council for Medical Ethics wrote: a Council opinion that the age ranges set out in the recommendations on screening for breast cancer and screening for cancer of the fat and rectum can be age-discriminatory. It considered it urgent to carry out model analyses based on current knowledge of ages over 74 years. Here are the questions that one must be able to answer in such a study: This is precisely what we have in our objections to the age limit. Can the upper age limit be interpreted as meaning that the risk of breast cancer is over and therefore women seek later for warning symptoms? ..................................................... When many of the studies were planned more than a quarter of a century ago, 75 years were possibly considered to be a very old age – is there reason to consider that women now live on average significantly longer? ..................................................... This continues with a number of points that the National Council for Medical Ethics believes should be taken into account when there are age limits in screening programmes, in this case screening by mammography. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1 on the revision of the upper age limit. Then there is a special opinion on the freedom of charge.
i-b8fca2160165a859-909	Mr President, I would like to Because breast cancer is the woman's most common cancer, with about 20 women per day falling ill, most of us have someone close to us who is affected as we know. Thankfully, care and treatment have been developed in a very positive way so that the chances of recovery are currently very good. Early detection of the disease is often crucial for a positive treatment outcome. The road to modern mammography has been long and quite crooked from time to time. As early as 1913, the first work on mammography was published by a German surgeon who took X-rays of preparations to map tumour propagation. Then the work has gone on in different rounds in different parts of the world. It was actually really exciting to get into the history of this, as that the Swedish mammography was in Gothenburg in the 60's. But I won't bore you with history descriptions. In Sweden, general screening was introduced about 30 years ago. There are several studies on the effects of screening. For example, there is, as has been mentioned, a large material in Dalarna. It is a unique material with long-term follow-up and statistics. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, screening with mammography reduces breast cancer mortality by 16 to 25 percent. So it saves a lot of lives. It is of course very worrying, therefore, that not all women who have the opportunity should participate in the mammography surveys. It is even more worrying when you read reports, for example from the Cancer Society, where it is clear that participation in mammography has partly become a class issue. Women living in socially disadvantaged areas are less involved than those living in well-off areas. In areas with high participation rates, participation is increasing and in areas with low participation rates it is decreasing. In areas with a high share of foreign births, mammography visits are fewer. It is well known that low-skilled women diagnosed with breast cancer have a higher risk of dying than those with higher education. Weak economics and mother tongues other than Swedish are also factors that lead to a greater absence from the survey. The consequence can be a delayed diagnosis and a worse chance of survival. This is obviously not an acceptable situation. Now we have a government that prioritises working for equal care and for strengthening women's health. That is why it is an excellent step to introduce freedom of charge for mammography. It has turned out, for example in Stockholm, that there are actually more people coming to the survey. As a result, more cases can be detected in time and more people can survive their disease. When it comes to what age range the screening should cover, the report shows that the Government intends to give the National Board of Health and Welfare the task of issuing regulations based on the knowledge available. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that such a reform is followed up, and of course it is still important that other efforts are made to increase participation in mammography. I am convinced that there is a need for a wide range of actions. Different measures may be needed in different county councils and regions. There, work must continue to do what is needed to increase participation. I am, in any case, very proud to represent a red gret government, eagerly promoted by the V Host Party, which puts equality and reduction of gaps high on the agenda and which prioritises women's health. From July 1st, mammography will be free. I think that is excellent. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-b8fca2160165a859-918	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes when I stand in the speaker's chair, I wish I could show you the big diagrams so that they become clear. However, since it is the spoken word that applies in Parliament, I may try to describe verbally instead the graph of participation in mammography that is included in our exercise, if anyone wants to see the picture. At the end of the 1980s, when mammography was introduced free of charge in Stockholm, participation was 70 per cent. It grew by some percentage point in the first year, fell, and then it increased again. Then it dropped steadily over a number of years. Then a fee of 50 kroner was introduced, and it dropped a little. But participation increased again. Then it steadily increased even though the fee of 50 kroner remained. It reached the highest level ever so far. So it was a higher level when there was a fee than now. Stockholm County Council has again been free of charge since 2012. With a fee free you have a lower participation than you had when you had a fee. When a higher fee of SEK 150 was introduced, there was a slight decrease in the first year, and this was made up for the second year. This is not what plays the biggest role. It's 70% who participates. It has never been more than 75 percent and never less than 65 percent, but it is commuting in between. My questions to the Social Democrats are as follows. It has such a small attachment. Free of charge has meant that it increases most in the socio-economically strong groups and not in the socio-economically weak. Why don't you choose another method? Why do you not spend the fairly large resources of taxpayers' money on something directed at the very socio-economically weak groups that are least involved in mammography?
i-b8fca2160165a859-923	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry, Emma, if I can't really see the chart in front of me. I guess I'll just have to cave in on it afterwards. I felt that in my speech I was trying to explain the freedom of charge. If there's anything I understand, it's what it feels like to have some money. I have experienced that myself during parts of my life. I know that when you are in such a situation that you have to choose exactly what you do with every hundred, it may be that you choose not to go on a mammography. We can do something about it and get that particular group to avoid thinking and having anxiety over: Should I choose to go to the mammography, or should I choose to buy something else? It is very good that those women can choose to go to the mammography.
i-b8fca2160165a859-927	Mr President, I would like to It's just those answers that make me so insanely worried. I also know what it's like to live with extremely little money. At the time there were 50 earrings, I even turned them over to get the money enough to buy a liter of milk. What we see is something else. In fact, we have tested this in a reality project in the largest county council in the country. We have statistics for almost 30 years that show that it is not the levy that is the most important thing for those who are socio-economically exposed. The small increase seen has been greatest in the socio-economically strong groups. It is great that participation increases there, but we use money for what may not be the most effective. I have a few further questions for the Social Democrats. Why is it precisely the mammography screening fee that you think we should go in and regulate with legislation at the national level? Why is this precisely something that you do not associate with those responsible for health care with? That's their whole main mission. In order to have more equal health care throughout the country, we see from the Christian Democrats that there are certain areas of health care where we should take a much greater approach and nationalise a part of hospital care. However, it is a question of much greater reforms than a single small levy in one area. This shows a distrust of those responsible for this and that it is not believed that they can value this particular fee compared to others. The question is: Are the Social Democrats and the government now prepared to go in and investigate a larger government governance of health care in order to achieve more equal care? I also have a question for the Social Democrats on the age limit. Are you of the opinion that it will not affect when you go in and separate precisely the mammography screening fee and with legislation consolidates the age limit of 74 years?
i-b8fca2160165a859-933	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the latest, which concerns the age limit. I think it is good that it is the expert authority that can prescribe the age limit to apply. A state of knowledge can change, and I think it is reasonable for the expert authority to review this and make suggestions as to which age limit should be up-to-date. It is interesting when Emma Henriksson speaks warmly for equality in healthcare and says that much greater reforms are needed. It would be interesting to know what major reforms Emma Henriksson would like to implement because in your autumn budget you have 2 1⁄2 billion less for health care. So you think you can carry out larger reforms with less money. I find that very strange. If there is a possibility that with this we can get more people in socio-economically weak groups to come to the mammography, we will do so. I am convinced that there may need to be more effort, as I said in my speech. But we really believe in this; we think it will matter. I know many people working in this area, and they are also convinced that this will be of great importance. I am pleased and proud that we are making this decision today.
i-b8fca2160165a859-937	Mr President, I would like to Already in the autumn of last year, we moderates announced that we do not support the government's proposal on tax-funded screening – hence our specific opinion in the report. There should be order in the welfare, and each tax chandelier should be used for the greatest benefit to the patient and caretaker. This proposal does not go in that direction. Cancer is the common disease of our time. The cancer knows no bounds, as my colleagues have been on before. It knows no age limits. The Swedish Cancer Society's latest annual report contains a summary of cancer care. It highlights many concrete challenges. These are waiting times, and these include the major regional differences in the waiting times of cancer care. Mr President, I would like to No one, regardless of age, should have to die in a care queue while waiting for cancer treatment or prevention. It is worrying that the government wants to limit the possibility of tax-funded screening entirely based on age categories. I wonder on what grounds this age limit is set. Do Kristina Nilsson and Karin Rågsjö from the committee, who come up here in the debate, have any facts or evidence based that show that cancer feels of age limits and stops hitting people at the age of 75? Do you suddenly run no risk of getting cancer when you are 75 years old? Is it fair to give priority to all women who are over 75 years of age? Cancer is cancer no matter where it is in the body. The consequences of an undiscovered process are great and tragic. We Moderates take these issues very seriously and have therefore put forward proposals in this House, among other things, to develop today's cancer strategy into a 2.0 strategy focusing on both short- and long-term quality improvements in cancer care. When it comes to responsibility and priorities, we can note that the government is taking action in various areas, such as this, while presenting proposals where it works to transform Sweden's counties and county councils into large regions. I am not going to take that debate here today, but it is interesting that the government is working for larger regions with an increased responsibility in health care, while presenting proposals in this area and in this way. The distribution of responsibilities, especially when it comes to health care, should be clear. The government risks creating uncertainty in health care when it comes to conflicting proposals and decisions from the state. It does not benefit patients, and it is the patients that we Moderates look to in the first place. It is therefore up to the regions or county councils to decide on issues such as this because they are within their area of responsibility and knowledge. Mr President, I would like to In an overall assessment, I can see that this is an ill-considered and lacking proposal in many respects.
i-b8fca2160165a859-948	Mr President, I would like to Now the Riksdag will soon decide on free mammography throughout Sweden. It is a great victory for all of us who believe in equal health. All bourgeois parties have said no to free mammography in their shadow budgets. I think it should be noted. Class and health are not the best branch of the right, you might say. Women with short education, poor economics or foreign origin make up the majority of the more than 150 000 who never come up with the general surveys. What are we gonna do about it? I do not see any answers in your budgets or in the response to this bill. About half of all breast cancer cases are detected in screening by mammography. The Cancer Society and the National Organization of Breast Cancer Associations advocate free mammography. For example, Roger Henriksson is a professor. Other researchers also support free screening. Cancer is a national disease. About every second young person today will develop cancer at some point in his lifetime, which has become one of the most common diseases in the world. The increase can partly be explained by the fact that we are getting older, an increased screening and better methods of diagnosing cancer. There's so much hope. Research is making remarkable progress. But as usual in the field of health and life, it is about who you are and what you come from. Health and class are connected. In resource-weak areas where a large proportion of the population has an overseas background, participation in mammography is particularly low. Bergsjön in Gothenburg is an example where only 54 percent of the women participate in general mammography. In Sävedalen, which has a completely different character, participation was 84 per cent. We can't have that. What are we gonna do about it? We've been asking ourselves. That is why the Left has negotiated 100 million in 2016 and then 207 million per year during the entire term of office for free mammography. Long-term work is needed for equal health, and this is a step along the way. The key is to get your diagnosis as early as possible. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in the Western world and is also increasing. While cancer is becoming more common, it also increases the chances of surviving the disease. This is because there is improved treatment and also mammography that makes breast cancer detected early. A Swedish research study shows that women with higher education are more at risk of being diagnosed with cancer. It is a connection that has also been demonstrated in a major international study. The explanation is that well-educated women are more involved in mammography screening. But the level of education also affects survival. Women with higher education generally show a higher degree of survival. This is a matter of class. What are we gonna do about this if you think it's a problem? I can't find any answers anywhere from the right side. Since the fee for mammography was removed in Stockholm County Council at the turn of the year 2011/ 12– it was your friends who removed it, so they should have a small credit – 3 percent more women in Stockholm County have participated in the screening programme for early detection of breast cancer. There are districts that are specifically exposed, Skärholmen and Spånga-Tensta. These are socio-economically very vulnerable areas. There, participation increased by 6 and 4 per cent respectively. Otherwise, the participation has been lowest in Stockholm County. You can make a difference, and you can save lives. You can look at different studies. There are a number of factors that have been shown to have a positive impact on participation. One of the strongest factors for higher participation is low or no fee. Then there are availability and reminders of the surveys. A lot of county councils are working on it. It's a complement. Last year, we negotiated EUR 130 million in the budget for targeted actions during our term of office. We want the county councils to find models to work strategically with those who need health care most and who have not been able to reach your freedom of establishment. Women with only primary education are therefore a group that in several ways has had the least favourable health development. Free mammography together with targeted efforts increases the conditions for reaching those women who otherwise risk not getting their diagnosis early. This also increases their chances of survival. Those who don't come to the mammography examinations get a worse prognosis. So we have done several different things in several different steps. It's actually more than you did in those eight years. In fact, I do not see any such proposals – either in your budget or in the response to this proposal. Politics should make a difference. I think your policy makes a difference to those who are already well off. With its budget cooperation with the government, the Left wants to create a more equal Sweden. It's our biggest mission. This also applies in the area of health. Class and health are a central issue. The National Board of Health and Welfare says that there are currently no health benefits in changing the age range, i.e. opening the door to mammography for women over the age of 74. So there are currently no studies in screening programmes that show that it would have a very good effect. But we're gonna follow the developments and look at this. We're not closing doors. However, you do so by saying that mammography that is not paid for pays no dividends whatsoever. But we can see that it does in Skärholmen and Tensta. How you can sit and say it's okay that only 54 percent of the women in Bergsjön come to mammography while it's 84 percent in Sävedalen is for me absolutely incredible, I have to say. Then you as a state must go in and look at what we can do to have long-term effects in Sweden. You do not support what has an effect but make proposals that, according to the National Board of Health and Welfare, do not have an effect. These are the ones you're talking about up here. You're not talking about why you say no to free mammography. You want to hide that a little bit. Class, health and inequality are a super issue. We can study table by table. However, when it comes to a real state of affairs, you never support proposals that can reduce health inequalities. You seem to think, as a matter of urgency, that reduced taxes are the miracle cure for everything. Reducing health inequalities requires offensive efforts. You miss it on the right side, I think. I support the committee's proposal and reject all motions and reservations.
i-b8fca2160165a859-966	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I think it is a bit tragic to hear this from Karin Rågsjö when we agree on what to achieve. My whole main speech was that it is a problem that women in socio-economically weaker areas participate to a lesser extent in mammography screening and that it is important that we do the right things in order for them to increase participation. Now I hear we want it to be unequal. The criticism that I have made is as follows: When the fee was last removed in Stockholm, participation in the whole county increased temporarily by 3%. But it is not possible to identify what was due to the fee, for many of those who came then did not even know that it was free of charge, says the study. It's worth reading the whole study. In Hedvig Eleonora – for those of you who cannot Stockholm, I can say that it is at Östermalm – participation increased by 12%. So the socio-economic difference increased. This is a lot of taxpayers' money. Should we not be absolutely sure that we are using them for what is most effective in actually getting more women to go to cell testing, especially in those groups where fewer are doing so today? My first question to Karin Rågsjö is: Are you absolutely convinced that this money cannot be used better to reach the socio-economically vulnerable, so that more of them can be reached by mammography screening? My second question is: are you absolutely convinced that the fee for mammography screening is what we should decide with the tools and legislation of the state and that this responsibility should lie with us and not with the county council, while it should not apply, for example, to gynecological cell sampling, where we see the same problem?
i-b8fca2160165a859-971	Mr President, I would like to I think, Emma, you'll see this in stages. We have a line mapped out. It's about equal health. We'll do the thing after the thing. As you know, women in Hedvig Eleonora also go to primary care to a greater extent. They seek out health centres in a completely different way, and it is about class patterns. The fact that 6 per cent more women in Skärholmen go on mammography means a lot. We have mixed different things with the different budgets. This is about free mammography. But we have also provided funds so that primary care and those working with health will find better opportunities to reach women with short education. The health development of women with short education and lower economics is extremely much worse than that of women with academic education. You have to take piece by piece. I think this is well-targeted money that means much more than the freedom of establishment that you have shaken loose throughout Stockholm County Council. If you hadn't had all these health care agreements and so on that money is paid for, we would have had the opportunity to do even more in Stockholm County Council, I think. I think this is the right thing to do. If you want to work with equal health, you have to carry out reform after reform. Now we have launched this reform, which I am very proud of. We will now move on, because this is the most important thing we have to work with: equal health in the whole area of health care.
i-b8fca2160165a859-976	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know what answer I really got. I did not get an answer to the question as to what distinguishes the fee for mammography screening from the fee for gynecological cell sampling, for example, which applies to another very serious form of cancer where we see that early detection through screening programmes is important. Our main criticism is that the government proposes to go in and take over a small part of the responsibility of health professionals in a way that rips them apart so that they are responsible for the entire health area locally and regionally in county councils and regions to look at the whole and determine how best to reach the citizens and increase the survival of the group of women who today have the highest mortality precisely because we do not reach them through screening. We are not saying that screening is not important. On the contrary, it is very important. Just as Karin Rågsjö said in her main speech, we bourgeois in many places have removed the fee where we have seen that it has been called for. But we have never done it alone, because we know that much more is needed to reach those who are currently participating far too little. However, when you are in power in county councils and regions, you are sometimes unable even to refrain from raising the fee. This has been done by red-controlled county councils, most recently for cell sampling, although according to your own theory it is the one that has the most serious consequences. That's what your county councils do. Let the county councils take responsibility!
i-b8fca2160165a859-979	Mr President, I would like to It's not like that, Emma Henriksson, that we've been cooking this up and wondering what to do. We've been listening to research. We've been listening to high-ranking scientists. We've looked at tables. We have had a kind of mission to direct our efforts. Now we start with mammography, and then we move on. Then it was about tearing up the county councils. The voices I have heard in relation to free mammography throughout Sweden are positive. These are positive voices from politicians, researchers and patient associations. There is no one standing and crying in a corner over that there is toll-free mammography and says: How difficult! I think that these issues should be taken seriously. I say one more time: Women with short education have the very worst health development in Sweden. It has to be taken seriously. There, step by step must be taken. We now have to decide to introduce this free mammography. There's research and evidence. It is not that there is no evidence that free screening leads to women going to mammography. We are mating this with other efforts. We want primary care to work more aggressively and effectively in socio-economically vulnerable areas. That's how we work. I think that the state must take responsibility when you see that inequality is spreading. Then you cannot just sit with your arms crossed and hope that various reforms that benefit the absolutely richest will take root. We must protect the people who are the furthest away in the field of health care. It's simple.
