i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-8	Mr President, I would like to Mr Linde has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that Sweden, as an individual country as well as a member of the EU and the UN, will work towards an end to the war in Yemen, to enable the UN to investigate war crimes committed in Yemen, and for the EU to impose an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia and for Sweden to impose a national arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. I share the interpellier's deep concern about the serious situation in Yemen. The humanitarian and economic situation in Yemen is catastrophic. Over 80% of the population are in need of humanitarian aid. According to UNICEF, over 1.5 million children suffer from malnutrition. Access to all areas of the country where assistance is needed is one of the main challenges. In particular, the security situation makes it difficult to reach out with humanitarian aid to those in need. The large number of civilian deaths is unacceptable. The killing must stop immediately. Sweden calls on all parties to the conflict to respect and comply with international humanitarian law and human rights. Sweden is one of the largest humanitarian donors to Yemen. Last year, SEK 288 million was disbursed to the Yemeni crisis, including Djibouti, Jordan and Somalia. Sweden has so far contributed SEK 174 million in humanitarian aid to the Yemen crisis through Sida in 2016. In addition, Sweden provides comprehensive non-dedicated core support to organisations implementing humanitarian operations in the context of the crisis, including the UNHCR, the World Food Programme, the ICRC and the United Nations Emergency Fund, Cerf. Yemen is also included in the regional MENA strategy with a focus on human rights and democracy. However, developments in Yemen are very bleak following the collapse of the UN-led peace negotiations at the beginning of August. Despite a number of subsequent initiatives, trust between the parties is low, and an agreement seems, regrettably, increasingly remote. There is no military solution to the conflict, as we have to say so often. Only a political process can lead to a long-term sustainable solution. Sweden actively supports the efforts of the UN envoy Cheikh Ahmed to reach and consolidate a peace settlement. Sweden is working for a more inclusive peace process in Yemen where women are actively and meaningfully involved in the talks, as was the case in the National Dialogue Conference that ended in 2014. UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is not only about women's human rights but also, and of equal importance, about securing peace and security for all. A sustainable peace process would lay the foundations for stable institutions that could eventually promote economic, political and social development for all. International sanctions such as arms embargoes are a valuable instrument for international efforts to secure peace and security and to promote democracy and human rights. The UN Security Council, the EU or the OSSE can decide on an arms embargo, but Sweden does not have its own national sanctions. Instead, the sanctions instrument is part of the EU's common foreign and security policy.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-17	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. In the shadow of the wars in Syria and Iraq, Yemen is one of the greatest humanitarian disasters of our time. The civil war that began in 2014 between different groupings has rapidly developed into a major regional war in which several of the major powers of the Middle East participate directly or through representatives in the battles. On one side are Huthirebeller supported by Iran. On the other hand, President Hadi is actively supported by a Saudi coalition supported by, among others, the United States, France, the United Kingdom and Canada. The people of Yemen have paid a breathtakingly high price for the regional power struggle. The Secretary of State mentioned some information, and according to the UN, about 10 000 people have been killed in the fighting and 4 million have been displaced. According to UNICEF, 1.5 million children suffer from malnutrition, and more than half of Yemen's 26 million inhabitants are in short supply of food. 80% of the population lives below the poverty line. Just over a month ago, the Saudi Air Force bombed a funeral in the capital Sana. They killed 140 people and injured 500 people. Unfortunately, it was not an isolated incident. We have seen how the Saudi-led forces have bombed and shot at a dozen schools, hospitals and markets. Just a few days ago, reports of Saudi Arabia bombing two prisons reached us. Of course, the prisoners had nowhere to escape the bombs, and 43 people were killed. In her reply, Margot Wallström gives a good description of the important efforts that Sweden is making to contribute humanitarianly to this disaster. However, Sweden's credibility as a humanitarian actor in Yemen is limited. While we are giving SEK 174 million in humanitarian aid this year, we choose to sell arms with the other hand to at least six of the states carrying out bombing attacks on civilian targets in Yemen. When it comes to political initiatives to contribute to a solution, I think there are no concrete proposals in the Foreign Minister's response. I was expecting a little more. The sharpest message we are getting from Mrs Wallström today about the government's Yemeni policy is that Sweden, unlike the Netherlands, will not impose a national arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. However, there is no lack of concrete initiatives that Sweden could take, not least when Sweden joins the Security Council on 1 January. Then we could take a series of initiatives to stop the fighting or try to contribute to a peace process in Yemen. Firstly, a new Security Council resolution is needed which establishes a clear timetable for a political solution and which places clear demands on all parties, both national Yemeni parties and international and regional actors. That is why I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: will Sweden, when we enter the Security Council, actively push for a new resolution on the war in Yemen? Secondly, the Security Council needs to set up an independent committee of inquiry to investigate all violations of war laws and human rights, whether they have been committed by national or international or regional actors. Will Sweden, when we join the Security Council, work towards the appointment of an independent commission of inquiry? Thirdly, Saudi Arabia must lift the blockade it has tried to impose against Yemen. Today, sea routes, land roads and airspace are in practice closed. This means that Sana airport is currently closed. This makes it difficult to import supplies and humanitarian aid. It also means that it is very difficult to leave the country for those fleeing the fighting. Will Sweden demand that Saudi Arabia lift its blockade against Yemen?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-31	Mr President, I would like to Let us emphasise once again how disastrous the humanitarian and economic situation in Yemen is. It is estimated that over 80% of Yemen's population is in need of humanitarian aid. Access to all areas where assistance is needed is one of the biggest challenges. We call on all parties to the conflict to respect and comply with international humanitarian law. We have also backed up the UN's call to set up an international investigation to clarify whether war crimes have been committed. That is, of course, an important thing. We believe that both the EU and the UN tracks must be followed first and foremost in order to really get the strength behind both actions and words. It is true that this has not been at the very top of the EU's agenda recently, but it will, of course, climb the UN agenda. It remains to be seen what opportunities there are for resolutions. It depends very much on what is happening in the United States and who will be appointed as important posts if we are to have a constructive climate and an atmosphere in the Security Council that will enable the Security Council to play a role. We believe that this obviously belongs on the UN agenda. On the other hand, with regard to sanctions, we prefer it to happen in the context of the European Union and the United Nations, and we will continue to do so. As far as arms exports are concerned, we believe that the rules we have for this must be respected. We have independent institutions, authorities and an organisation to control this. The next year will also see new regulations including, for example, the democracy criterion for assessing arms exports. In addition, we are pushing very hard that there should also be one aspect of women's participation in all negotiations in these contexts. Interestingly, we have invited you to a conference for the Nordic mediation network. We are having a meeting at the beginning of December, and then the UN envoy for Yemen, Cheikh Ahmed, will be involved. This will be a good opportunity for us to talk to him about the situation in Yemen. We are fully supporting his work, and I believe that it is from there that the calls must come to what the next step should be. This will be a good opportunity for us to ask about the situation and how we can best help.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-37	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we must follow all the tracks and openings we can find to contribute to peace in Yemen. It is important to be able to work in both the UN system and the EU and possibly other channels. But now Sweden will have a unique role in the Security Council over the next two years, and this issue will be on the Security Council's agenda. It would be interesting to hear a little more about the government's thoughts and strategies for the two years in the Security Council. I suspect that there is a plan for how to act and use those two years to contribute to peace in Yemen. For example, are we prepared to work for a new resolution with a clear timetable, which also places clear demands on Saudi Arabia, for example? With regard to the issue of an arms embargo, the question of whether to have a national one can be dropped. It would be far better if we got to it at European level, and this has been demanded by the European Parliament among others. Only in February was it decided that it would like to see an EU arms embargo on Saudi Arabia on the basis of the war crimes it commits. The question then becomes whether the government supports such an embargo. Is the government prepared to support the demands made by the European Parliament for the EU to impose a common arms embargo on Saudi Arabia? This is not an irrelevant issue. We know that the majority of the weapons that Saudi Arabia has bought in recent years come from EU countries. Here we have a huge opportunity to put pressure on Saudi Arabia by introducing a national arms embargo, as the Netherlands has already done, or to do so at European level. I would like to hear more clearly from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This interpellation was made for a reason. It has not been long since the Prime Minister visited Saudi Arabia. It chose to send a government delegation led by the Prime Minister just a few days after Saudi Arabia had bombed a funeral in the capital Sana and killed 140 people. This raises a number of questions as to where Sweden stands in relation to the Yemeni conflict. I note that in the press release sent out for the state visit, the government talked about cooperation on innovation and sustainability issues, but it did not mention with a comma the humanitarian disaster that Saudi Arabia has been involved in creating in Yemen. In its press release, the Government called Saudi Arabia an important political and economic player with a key role in the development and security of the region. I have to say that it is a very diplomatic rewrite for a dictatorship that has used cluster weapons on at least 15 occasions – one of the worst weapons of our time – in Yemen. In addition, Stefan Löfven took with him the chairman of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce and Marcus Wallenberg, Chairman of the Board of Saab. However, Minister Wallström was not allowed to accompany the delegation, nor were any representatives of civil society or human rights organisations involved. If I am to try to be as diplomatic as the government has been in its statements on Saudi Arabia, one does not get the impression that it was issues of peace, regional security, democracy and human rights that were the focus of the government's journey to Saudi Arabia. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what was discussed during the visit to Riyadh with regard to Yemen? What did Stefan Löfven actually raise in his talks with representatives of the Saudi dictatorship? Did the visit raise Riyad's direct responsibility for the war and humanitarian disaster in Yemen? What exact demands did the Swedish Prime Minister make on Saudi Arabia during the visit? For example, did they call for a stop to the bombing of civilian targets and the lifting of Saudi Arabia's blockade against Yemen?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-48	Mr President, I would like to Our most important foreign policy platform is EU cooperation. It is very important to ensure that the Yemen issue remains on the agenda for future meetings of foreign ministers, for example, and that there is commitment to the Yemen issue in the EU context. In addition, it is at the UN that we can raise issues relating to a commission of inquiry and possibly a new resolution. You always have to work in the way that you listen to all the parties involved to see what is the way forward and what opportunities you have. It is not an activist platform, it is actually a negotiating organisation. That is how we must work on this issue too. We believe that it is only a political process that can lead to peace and sustainable development in Yemen. In particular, we support the UN envoy's efforts to achieve and consolidate a peace settlement. It is these platforms that we will use. In the Security Council, of course, we will do our utmost to prevent a more polarised approach to the conflict. I believe that we have a good chance of achieving sensible talks and hopefully also a way forward, not least with regard to our humanitarian aid and the way in which we have engaged in Yemen. I would like it to be a solution in which we can have a resolution, but then we must also have the countries with us. Therefore, it is not possible to say in advance exactly how to act and what the content should be, but we need to talk to the members of the Security Council to see how far we can take this issue. As I said, it will be a good opportunity at the beginning of December to discuss with Cheikh Ahmed.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-53	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the announcement of Sweden's involvement in the Security Council, but I note that the Foreign Minister chooses to duck the issue of arms exports to Saudi Arabia. It's not surprising. There is a lot of money and business at stake. As recently as last summer, the ISP decided to approve a new deal with the United Arab Emirates – one of the countries currently bombing Yemen – for SEK 10.5 billion. I have been one of those many times in this House to welcome feminist foreign policy. I have welcomed the initiatives taken by Mrs Wallström to promote and strengthen the rights of women and girls around the world. But I must also say that when I follow the government's policy on Saudi Arabia and the war in Yemen, I find it very difficult to see any traces of feminism. Then it is rather Carl Bildt's old cynicism that seems to be guiding. Here the government has a clear foreign policy path. It is about the credibility of the government in terms of feminist foreign policy. It is difficult to claim with credibility that it is a feminist voice in the world while choosing to export arms to countries such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. It is not possible to claim to be a great humanitarian power while arming the same regimes, the same states and the same dictatorships that create the humanitarian disasters. And this government's export offensive in Riyadh is in very clear conflict with the fine words that we have heard many times in this House regarding women's rights, democracy, peace and freedom. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Wallström for clarification. Is this government prepared to promote an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia, with reference to their gross and extensive violations of human rights and the laws of war in Yemen?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-58	Mr President, I would like to The government has for a long time made it clear that it intends to return to Parliament with a proposal to strengthen export control vis-à-vis non-democratic countries. A bill will be prepared to be submitted to the Riksdag in the spring of next year. Until we have a new regulatory framework, it is obvious that the Inspection of Strategic Products will examine applications according to the law and regulations that apply today. The government has terminated the military cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia. We are actively working on a feminist foreign policy with a number of proposals and issues in several areas. There is nothing to be ashamed of there, but we are very active. And that is clearly what we think on this issue with regard to countries such as Saudi Arabia. Otherwise, we do not have any national sanctions. We intend to go through the EU and the UN if sanctions are considered and deemed to be the best way forward. We're totally open to it. I believe that there is nothing that we should exclude in terms of action if it helps to resolve the situation in Yemen, but we have to discuss it. Of course we support the idea of an independent commission of inquiry, and we will probably see the issue on the Security Council agenda. Then we will act on the principle that we should talk not only about countries but with countries, and we will try to get a way forward. We will base it on advice and assessments that the UN envoy will hopefully give us shortly.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-62	Mr President, I would like to Mr Linde has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that Sweden, as an individual country, as well as a member of the EU and the UN, will work to ensure that Israel lift the blockade of the Gaza Strip and what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that Israel returns the ship Zaytouna-Zaytouna-Oliven to its owners. I share Mr Linde's concern about the situation in Gaza, which is constantly deteriorating. The EU and Sweden are working towards lifting the isolation of Gaza and ending the occupation. The government has consistently stated to Israel that border crossings, unconditionally and immediately, must be opened – to humanitarian aid, commodities and people. It is of the utmost importance that humanitarian supplies to Gaza are allowed in. The isolation of Gaza that has been going on for almost ten years is exacerbated by additional security measures. This is something that benefits extreme forces. During these ten years of isolation, Gaza has suffered three wars, and reconstruction is slow. The temporary agreement between the Palestinian and Israeli authorities, called Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism, GRM, was a necessary but temporary solution. Gaza faces enormous humanitarian challenges, where only 16% of total reconstruction needs have so far been met. At the same time, Gaza has the world's highest unemployment rate. An immediate solution to the water supply in Gaza is necessary in order to avoid a humanitarian disaster. The issue of the return of the ship Zaytouna-Zaytouna-Oliven to its owner is primarily a matter for the flag State, that is, the State whose flag it is entitled to fly. As far as I know, this ship is not flying the flag of Sweden. I myself and the government are pursuing an active policy aimed at bringing about a final status solution to an end to the occupation and a two-state solution, in which Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace and security. The policy is based on international law, relevant UN resolutions and the EU's common policies. Sweden supports the French initiative aimed at creating momentum for a renewed peace process. The initiative is based on the need for international and regional engagement and support in order to create better conditions for a re-launched results-oriented and meaningful peace process. Under Swedish leadership, a working group on civil society was established in September in the framework of the initiative. Civil society actors from both sides have been consulted on their views on a two-state solution, thus contributing to a broader perspective on the issue.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-68	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. The background to this interpellation is Ship to Gaza's recent attempt to break Israel's blockade of the Gaza Strip. This time again, a civilian ship was not allowed to pass and reach Gaza, but was stopped by Israel. On 5 October, last autumn, Israel Ship to Gaza's ship Zaytouna-Zaytouna-Oliven boarded about 35 nautical miles off the Gaza coast and seized the 13 women on board. Two of these women came from Sweden. It was chief Emma Ringqvist and county politician Jean n ette Escanilla. Israel thus chose to stop a civilian ship in international waters with a full female crew. The passengers and crew were forced, against their will, to travel to Israel. I think that Israel is again confessing its colour and showing how unreasonable the blockade of the Gaza Strip is when once again an unarmed civilian vessel is stopped in international waters. Israel says that this blockade has been made to protect Israel and the Israeli population. But in what way does a small boat of 13 women threaten one of the world's strongest military powers? What threat did Emma Ringqvist from Orust and Jeannette Escanilla from Uppsala pose to the State of Israel? In what way was this boarding a decision of self-defense? At the same time, it must be made clear that it is not the passengers on board Ship to Gaza's ships who are most affected by the Israeli blockade – far from it. It is, of course, the people of Gaza who are most affected. Since 2007, Gaza has been under air, sea and land blockade after the occupying power of Israel classed the Gaza Strip as a hostile territory in response to unacceptable – it is important to emphasise – armed attacks by Palestinian groups against Israeli cities. This means that almost 2 million women and men, children and the elderly are trapped on an area corresponding to the Swedish island of Orust. This isolation has fundamentally destroyed the Gaza economy and created a deep humanitarian crisis. The blockade and wars have had devastating consequences. According to UNCTAD, it is expected that by 2020 it will no longer be possible to live on the Gaza Strip. It raises so many questions. Where are these 2 million people going on the day when the Gaza Strip is collapsing and it is no longer possible to live there? Moreover, on three occasions in the last eight years, Israel has, as the Foreign Minister says, launched a full-scale attack on the Gaza Strip. We know today that Israel has bombed hospitals and schools, shot at ambulances and mosques, and leveled residential buildings and sewage treatment plants with the ground. I have to say that in most parts I welcome Mrs Wallström's answer today. It is good that the Swedish Government is so clear that border crossings, unconditionally and immediately, must be opened. I also think it is important and good that the Swedish Government sees the deep humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip and that Sweden has chosen to be a major donor to facilitate the situation and everyday life of the people living in the Gaza Strip. But the problem is that we have heard these demands since the blockade was introduced in 2007. Clearly, expressions of concern, exhortations and statements are not enough to move Israel to take the steps that Israel must take to respect the foundations of international law. This summer this blockade is ten years old. If the blockade is to be lifted, it will take more than words. Then Sweden and the EU must also be prepared to take further steps and put pressure behind words. Therefore, after ten years of failure on the part of the EU and on the part of Sweden to lift this blockade, the question becomes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what will be done further? How is it prepared to move forward and put pressure behind the words that have been repeatedly spoken on behalf of Sweden and the EU?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-78	Mr President, I would like to I very much welcome Mr Linde's question about the situation in Gaza. I also agree with his concerns and those of many others about the situation. Sweden's assessment is that since the last Gaza war in 2014, there has been no armed conflict in Gaza and that Israel has no right to maintain a blockade. The position of Sweden and the EU is that Israel occupies Gaza, especially as Israel continues to exercise control over, among other things, the majority of borders, airspace and the sea. We also regard Gaza and the West Bank as a coherent territory. Without Gaza, it is impossible to achieve the objective of a two-state solution in which a coherent, viable and democratic Palestine can live side by side with Israel, with Jerusalem as the capital of both states – a coexistence in which the Palestinians' claims for security and national self-determination are met. Sweden, in particular, works via and together with the EU to end the isolation of Gaza. The EU has consistently stated in Council conclusions, statements and ongoing dialogue that border crossings must be opened immediately and unconditionally and open to humanitarian aid, trade goods and persons including official representatives of states. The importance of intra-Palestinian reconciliation cannot be stressed enough in this context either. In the long term, only an agreed peace between Israel and Palestine, including Gaza, can create long-term security in the region. Sweden belongs to the EU Member States that are pushing for an active and clear EU policy in the peace process. Sweden's voice is respected, and we have well-functioning cooperation with a number of like-minded countries within the EU. The aim of the efforts is a results-oriented and meaningful peace process with two less equal partners, and the lifting of the blockade of Gaza is an important element of that process. After the Swedish recognition of Palestine, we have built a role in the peace process, and we have been invited to attend extended quartet meetings. We have now been given a central role in the French peace initiative and, as I said, we have led a work of consulting a fairly broad range of civil society organisations in both Israel and Palestine. In fact, there has been appreciation on both sides. We have also pushed for, for example, the labelling of products to take place also in the EU context, in order to be able to put strength behind the words also in relation to Israel. On the initiative of Israel to return the ship, I can only repeat that it is a matter for the flag State. Each State has the right to allow vessels flying its flag to sail on the high seas. Ships should only sail under the flag of a state, and then it will also fall under the jurisdiction of that State. I therefore believe that this is up to the state whose flag the ship is using. It is true, however, that we have long argued that this is an occupation and that it must be lifted in order, above all, to be able to help with humanitarian aid. The situation is really stressful – and ultimately very dangerous, because it is just as Hans Linde asks: Where will they go?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-85	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I stand here again and agree with much of what the Foreign Minister says. These are important messages and messages that come. The problem is, we've heard it before. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, the EU has repeated its positions in conclusion after conclusion and statement after statement, and it has had very little effect. On the contrary, we now see that developments in the Gaza Strip are going backwards in several areas. The humanitarian crisis is deepening, in fact, every day, and we see that representatives of civil society, aid organisations and the United Nations are now clearly warning that it is once again being seen that the restrictions on what is being introduced into the Gaza Strip are constantly tightening. For example, Ocha, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid, has pointed out that it is becoming more difficult and difficult for them to get entry permits to the Gaza Strip for their staff. The Israeli organisation Gisha, which monitors freedom of movement between Israel and Gaza, is also seeing alarming developments. They believe that the Israeli authorities are today blocking travel for all sorts of travellers who want to leave the Gaza Strip – even when it comes to business travellers who can create jobs for young people, patients who are in urgent need of medical care they cannot get in the Gaza Strip and representatives of civil society or relief organisations. Unfortunately, this is proof that EU and Sweden's policies have failed. We haven't made it. If we have not succeeded in these ten years, neither will we succeed in the year 11 or 12 if we continue to say the same things – if we continue to come up with the same Council conclusions and make the same statements. I think it is time that Sweden and the European Union started to put real strength behind the words. I think we need to look at the association agreement Israel has with the EU, which enables Israel to export to the European Union on very favourable terms. We know that in Article 2 of the Association Agreement there is a clear condition that Israel should respect democracy and human rights both in its foreign policy and in its domestic policy. We also know that this type of association agreement has been lifted or frozen with a number of other states when they have violated human rights. I have to say that I find it difficult to understand why this issue cannot be discussed. Why not go on and see if we can use the economic muscles we still have to put pressure on Israel? I also think it is time that we seriously called for Israel to start repaying all the aid that has been destroyed in the Gaza Strip. Much of what you bomb is, in fact, wastewater treatment plants, buildings and schools – infrastructure that we here in Sweden or around the EU have paid for. It is, of course, our tax funds that have to build up the same buildings and treatment plants time and time again, which Israel then goes in and bombes again. I would have liked the Swedish Government to be much clearer about the time for Israel to start repaying what has been destroyed – the buildings we have built with Swedish tax funds. Finally, I would also like to highlight humanitarian aid. The needs are enormous. With regard to the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees, Unrwa, I saw that in 2000 they helped 80 000 people in the Gaza Strip. Today they help 1 million people. The needs, and the number of inhabitants, of the Gaza Strip are increasing dramatically, and Unrwa is in no way able to respond to the greatly increased needs that exist. No new health clinics have been built; on the contrary, some nursing services have been suspended. Today, at Unrwa's schools, more than 50 students attend each teacher. This, of course, creates a humanitarian disaster, but it also sows a dragon seed for the future. The children attending these schools will hardly grow up as advocates of reconciliation, compromise and peace. I would therefore like to ask the Foreign Minister whether he is prepared to strengthen humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip, because there we see that funding is really lacking.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-93	Mr President, I would like to We agree on most things, Hans Linde and I. I can only say that Unrwa's boss was in Stockholm recently to thank him for his help, because we are one of the most faithful contributors to Unrwa. We have also helped in crisis situations for Unrwa. We have made sure that we can always add more help to Unrwa to do that task. Otherwise, it is really disastrous, and the aid actually goes to the children and to education. We also fully agree on the need for humanitarian aid. We are working closely with the EU to break Israel's isolation of Gaza, and we are working at the UN to bring about constructive resolutions with the same meaning to ensure rapid reconstruction. There have been a number of international conferences where country after country has promised support, but unfortunately the support has not been able to reach or reach people who need it. The Consul General of Sweden in Jerusalem visited Gaza last week and saw that the situation is becoming increasingly problematic. According to Ocha 65 000 of the 100,000 Palestinians who lost their homes during the Gaza war in 2014, are still without accommodation. Almost all water is undrinkable, and if nothing is done, all water in a few years will be contaminated and impossible to restore. This, combined with isolation, makes the situation very difficult. It is estimated that 160 000 children would need psychosocial support, and youth unemployment in Gaza is the highest in the world – 60%. On 19 September, we attended a political coordination meeting with the United States, the EU, the UN, the World Bank, the IMF and Israel and Palestine. There too, Gaza's isolation was discussed in depth. The World Bank has stressed that delays in disbursements of aid and difficulties in obtaining material have delayed reconstruction. Only 16% of total reconstruction needs have been met. The Bank also believes that the trade blockade from Egypt and Israel must be lifted. Increased aid is needed and more efficient administrative processes are needed. It is therefore urgent that humanitarian supplies to Gaza should also be allowed in. What is called Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism was an important step, but it has been completely inadequate. While we have seen some improvements recently – the transition at Rafah has been kept more open than before, the reduction in the fishing zone has slightly expanded and water supply has also improved slightly – political lock-ups remain. The answer to your question is that there is no unity. There is no unity in the European Union, and there is no unity in the United Nations. I'm afraid the suggestions you're making here won't help either. It is not just us, although it is a touching hope that Sweden alone could solve this situation and solve the blockade. But this is not realistic to believe, but we will have to stick together in the European circle and in the United Nations if we are to achieve results. Right now, there's no prospect of that. As you know, even the United States – and not least John Kerry personally – has been engaged in this for a long time with very meagre results. That's where we stand. We can only continue, step by step. Although it is ant steps, we must try to take them, with the aim of eventually reaching a two-state solution and lifting the blockade.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-100	Mr President, I would like to I'm not naive. Nor do I believe that Mrs Wallström – or, for that matter, her government – has the opportunity to resolve all the crises and disasters in the world, let alone the humanitarian disaster we are now seeing in the Gaza Strip. I was among those who very clearly welcomed the recognition of Palestine by the government. This decision was not taken too soon; it was – unfortunately – probably too late. This recognition also generated a strong hope among many Palestinians. They looked at Sweden as a friend and allied in the work for peace and for a two-state solution. Here Sweden has also raised an expectation and hope that we will be a country that dares to go ahead, just as we did when it came to the question of recognition. There, Sweden, through its recognition, started processes, which we have seen across Europe, where discussions have been created in several national parliaments. I would have liked the government to have the courage, in the same way, to take the lead here, to ask questions and to raise discussions when meeting in the European circle. Is it reasonable that we continue to give enormous trade preferences to a state like Israel when they refuse to listen to our calls? Is it completely unreasonable for the EU to use any of its economic or trade policy tools to try to persuade Israel to lift the blockade when it has not done so so far? I think these questions would be reasonable to ask. It is good that the government highlights its support for Unrwa – this is an important support. At the same time, however, I note that the government itself, in the budget that is now on Parliament's table, says that it wants to reduce support to Unrwa from SEK 415 million this year to SEK 370 million next year. Finally, I would like to say that I am very proud of Ship to Gaza and of those who have joined. But I really wish Ship to Gaza wouldn't have to send more ships. I wish Ship to Gaza could be closed down as an organisation. Unfortunately, this feels very remote today.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-106	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Linde, for this important interpellation! The future of Gaza and the future of the entire Palestinian population are interrelated. The longer the people of Gaza suffer under the current situation, the further away the Palestinians are being moved from the goal of a coherent, democratic and independent Palestinian state. I do not think there is any EU country, or any other country, that has not noticed that we are very active on this issue. We have been on the front line with the recognition, and we have also taken on this as a task. It is certainly a responsible and difficult task, but it is a task that we have taken on. We have been very active in the UN context. We have also been a driving force in the European Union, constantly highlighting this and ensuring that it is at the top of the agenda. We have created alliances with other countries that are like-minded. We have worked within the French initiative and taken on a task that I believe we are the only ones who have fully implemented in a good way. We have also argued that the EU should use all the tools at its disposal – on which agreement can be found – where a way forward has been found, albeit a cautious one. We have also repeatedly talked with the United States to reinforce Kerry's efforts to broker peace. We will continue to stand there, and we will continue to be active for the two-state solution that we would prefer to see.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-111	Mr President, I would like to Mr Linde has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that Sweden, both as an individual country and as a member of the EU and the UN, will work to bring about a ceasefire in Syria and to support the UN's efforts to bring about a peace process. He has asked what I intend to do to ensure that Sweden works to ensure that the warring parties respect international law, stop attacks on civilian actors and allow the introduction of humanitarian aid into the civilian population. Mr Linde also asks how we intend to act in order for neighbouring countries to open their borders to people fleeing the war in Syria. I share Mr Linde's concern about the situation in Syria. Every day, civilians are killed indiscriminately, and the parties – in particular the Syrian regime – have put in place systems to prevent and withhold humanitarian aid and access. Since the ceasefire broke down, we have seen a serious escalation of violence in Syria, not least on the part of the regime and Russia. Respect for human life is completely lacking. History will judge those responsible harshly. We cannot accept the continuation of this brutal conflict. The government, like Mr Linde, does not see a military solution to the crisis either. Even if it looks dark, we must not give up trying to find a peaceful political solution. The international community must continue to pursue and create the conditions for ceasefire, full humanitarian access and a political solution and transition in line with Security Council Resolution 2254. Sweden is working for this, bilaterally as well as through the UN and the EU. The UN has a central role in Syria, both politically and humanitarianly, and the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura has our full support. Since the conflict, Sweden has contributed to UN-led humanitarian efforts in Syria and its neighbours. Since the conflict broke out, we have contributed a total of SEK 2.2 billion in addition to our extensive non-earmarked support to the UN. We are clear that we do not see a military solution. We are equally clear that women's participation and influence are crucial for a sustainable peace. We therefore support efforts aimed at strengthening women's voice and participation in political processes. We also support various dialogue initiatives and for some years now have a special envoy for the Syrian crisis, who is engaged in dialogue with various parts of the Syrian opposition and Syrian society. Sweden is actively participating in the universal review mechanism established by the UN Human Rights Council, the Universal Periodic Review. We are also actively involved in the negotiations on the resolutions on Syria in the framework of the Human Rights Council and the Third Committee of the UN General Assembly. The resolutions call on the regime to fully respect international law and condemn the continuing systematic, widespread and serious violations and human rights violations and violations of international humanitarian law. Sweden is a driving force in the EU and the UN on the issue of accountability. International humanitarian law and human rights must be respected by all parties to the conflict. Any suspicion of war crimes and other serious international crimes must be investigated and prosecuted. We support and work for the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court, the ICC. Punishment is not an option. As the interpeller rightly points out, the government advocates and works for the joint and several distribution of refugee reception within the EU and for other Member States to assume a much greater responsibility. Protecting people on the run cannot be the task of a few countries alone. In our dialogue – and in the run-up to the EU's dialogue – with Syria's neighbouring countries, we express concern about the situation of refugees and stress the importance of respect for international refugee law, international humanitarian law and human rights. As a Security Council member, Sweden will continue to promote ceasefire, full humanitarian access, accountability and a political solution. The conflict in Syria must end.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-124	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. Syria is the worst human disaster of our time. 11 million Syrians have been forced to leave their homes. The majority of them are still trapped inside Syria. Over 13 million Syrians urgently need humanitarian aid to survive. The UN has long stopped trying to count how many have been killed in this conflict. However, it is estimated that as many as 450 000 men, children, women and the elderly were killed. It is as if the entire population of Gothenburg had been wiped out in a few years. On central points, I believe that I and Mrs Wallström agree on how Sweden should react to the war in Syria. There is no military solution to the war. We must push for a political and peaceful solution with all the means at our disposal. The importance of involving women cannot be overestimated if we really want to build peace. We must bring about a cease-fire with full humanitarian access and respect for humanitarian actors operating in the war area. There is no way to see a road to peace that does not go through the UN. That is why I think it is important that such strong support has been given to the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura and his hard efforts to reach a peace agreement. The fact that we are here discussing this issue five years after the war broke out in Syria is proof that the international community has fundamentally failed. The peace in Syria can feel hugely remote, but at the same time it is so close. There is nothing to prevent Russia from stopping bombing in Aleppo today. Turkey could, with a simple decision, withdraw its troops from Syria and stop firing Kurdish targets. Iran, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United States could undoubtedly immediately stop backing their allies and put pressure on them to sit at the negotiating table. No one has forced China and Russia to veto the UN investigation of the war crimes committed on four occasions in the UN Security Council. The leaders of Moscow, Riyadh, Ankara, Tehran and Washington have Syria's future in their hands. But apparently too many of these leaders choose to put their own interests ahead of the Syrian people's urgent need for a truce, peace, democracy and human rights. Here I wish Mrs Wallström had been clearer in her reply. It is important to stress that this is not – and has not been for years – a civil war. It is a major regional war in which we see that too many actors are fighting directly inside Syria or through representatives. I am absolutely convinced that peace in Syria presupposes that the outside world extinguishs the hope and expectations of the warring parties that they will be able to achieve a military victory and that their abuses will be forgiven and forgotten. The drive to sit at the negotiating table and make real concessions will be small as long as the arms supplies continue to come, as long as political support continues from outside and as long as several of the parties have more to lose from peace than they have to lose from war. Since I wrote my interpellation, the playing field has been partially changed by the presidential elections in the United States. Trump has, of course, been very clear that he is going to change the policy on Syria, and I believe that his victory will fundamentally threaten the prospects of achieving a long-term and sustainable peace in Syria. Trump has already flagged because he wants to increase cooperation with Russia in Syria, reduce pressure on Asad and withdraw support for the opposition. Support for the Kurdish forces in northern Syria, among others, will be reduced – the most successful of all in the fight against IS. It would be interesting to hear from the Foreign Minister how to prepare for a new administration in the United States and what consequences it will have for the possibility of building peace in the Middle East.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-135	Mr President, I would like to It is a good description of the battlefield that Syria has become. There are a number of countries and interests that use this as their playing field, many of them with the greatest interest in ensuring that Asad can remain in power and many on the pretext of actually combating terrorism. There are somehow several battles being fought here at the same time. This makes the situation very complicated, complex and difficult to solve. This is an issue which, perhaps unlike Yemen, is constantly at the top of both the EU's and the UN's agendas. Finally, UN resolutions were adopted in support of action in Syria. This is a terrible humanitarian situation. The situation is terrible. But the government is now trying to find opportunities in the short term to save lives and alleviate distress and to contribute in the longer term to a peaceful solution. We continue to support Staffan de Mistura's efforts. We must thank him for his tireless efforts. We've deconced one person to his team. We have also paid for and organised the organisation of women, especially women from the opposition, and made it possible for them to take their place at the table as long as negotiations were taking place in Geneva. They have also been in Stockholm to get help and education. I hope that our membership of the Security Council will provide an opportunity to work towards a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Syria. We've opened an embassy in Beirut. It also reflects an increased effort in terms of our commitment. What we do in the European Union is that we are in favour of a cease-fire for humanitarian access and also for a peace process. Above all, we want to prevent impunity, because what has happened recently is a terrible thing, that a UN convoy has been bombed with humanitarian aid. It cannot go unpunished or unnoticed. That is why it is so important to try to bring about a movement in order to hold those responsible to account for this. It also seems that the withholding of humanitarian aid is now being used as a conflict strategy. We can expect that if everything continues as it has so far, Aleppo will also fall within a not too long time. The countries that have influence over the parties to the conflict must be convinced that the innocent women, men and children we have seen on television must be given access to humanitarian aid. We have also contributed a great deal of money to a development strategy and to humanitarian aid. And we are indirectly contributing to the fight against terrorism through what we are doing to educate the Peshmergan in Iraq, in particular to ensure that there is also a useful effort there. But we cannot know exactly what will be the future role of the United States until we see who they are choosing and what policies they intend to pursue.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-144	Mr President, I would like to There are several things that the government has done that I welcome. The support for women mediators cannot be overestimated, nor can it be overestimated by the large amount of humanitarian aid. Now you open an embassy in Beirut. I very much welcome the fact that Mrs Wallström is so clear on the issue of discharge and against the impunity that has spread throughout the Middle East. I think this is one of the keys if we are to achieve peace in the long term. The Syrian government's choice now to fire on Aleppo and a number of other cities indicates that President Bashar al-Asad-Assad believes that he can cling by military means to power and is convinced that it is possible to achieve a military victory on the battlefield. It is extremely important that the outside world kills those hopes in him. There's no way for Bashar al-Asad-Assad to get stuck in power. There is no way that we should forget and turn a blind eye to the gross and widespread abuse he has committed. During the five years of war in Syria, all parties involved have, of course, committed violations of human rights and the laws of war, but undoubtedly the main responsibility for the war rests with Asad's regime. It was the regime's systematic repression, its violation of human rights and its brutal response to the opposition's initial peaceful, broad and popular demonstrations that created this civil war. Statistics on Syria today are difficult. But there are many who claim that Asad is in a league of its own in terms of civilian casualties. There are those who have pointed out that perhaps as many as 90 percent of all civilians who have been killed in the last five years in Syria are responsible for Asad and his regime. Therefore, I think it is extremely important – if you are to build long-term peace – that you are clear on the issue of discharge. We will never accept impunity. It is good that Mrs Wallström is so clear that impunity is not an option. However, I note that the Foreign Minister does not mention Asad as a person in his reply. I think it is important to repeat that there is no future for Asad. There is not a possible outcome of a peace talks that could mean that Asad is still in office. I just want to make sure that it is still Sweden's position that Asad will have to resign. Mr President, I would like to We have seen that developments in Syria have clearly gone in the wrong direction for a number of years. The situation of the civilian population has become increasingly difficult inside the country. The need to leave Syria has increased. More and more have been forced to flee. But the possibility of escape and sanctuary has been dramatically reduced. Lebanon is now introducing a visa requirement for Syrians. Jordan has done the same. 75 000 Syrians are currently trapped in a no-man's-land on the Syrian-Jordan border. Turkey has largely closed its borders to Syrian refugees. There has been information that only 2 out of 19 official border crossings are currently open. In practice, the possibility of fleeing the country is closed to a great many Syrians. This isn't happening in a vacuum. This is happening in an international context. When Sweden and Margot Wallström's government introduced their ID and border controls, they overturned a tray over the Öresund Bridge and started a domino effect. Land after land closed its borders. Finally, the borders between Syria and its neighbours were closed. It is obviously a good thing that the government is prepared to criticise neighbouring countries and urge them to open their borders. However, the Swedish Government is, after all, complicit in the fact that refugees face closed borders. It is because of Mrs Wallström's government's migration policy and the agreement it has entered into with Turkey that we can now see an increasing number of borders in Europe and the Middle East closing.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-152	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has nothing to be ashamed of. Sweden is the country in the West that has received the most Syrian asylum seekers per capita, about 120 000 since the start of the Syria crisis in 2011. We have not closed the borders at all. There are still between 700 and 1 000 people per week coming to Sweden to apply for asylum. We strongly advocate that the burden should be distributed more evenly within the EU and that other Member States should take greater responsibility. We express the greatest concern about the situation of refugees. In our dialogue with Syria's neighbouring countries, we stress the importance of respect for international refugee law, international humanitarian law and human rights. We have contributed SEK 2.2 billion in humanitarian aid in connection with the Syria crisis. We have made a humanitarian commitment of – eventually – SEK 350 million for 2016. We have contributed additional funds to Syria. We also have a large amount of unallocated humanitarian aid for the UN humanitarian agencies. I said at the beginning that history will judge those responsible for the conflict harshly. I am convinced that we must continue to work to ensure that the international community's judgment is tough on those responsible for the abuses committed every day in Syria. Evidence must be collected until those who have committed serious international and war crimes can be held accountable for their actions. No, I don't think there's a future for Asad in Syria. After all, this is a man who has dropped thin bombs on his own population, who has used chemical weapons and has committed repeated war crimes against civilians in Syria. It is incredibly important that we are clear that there needs to be peace negotiations and an inclusive procedure. That, of course, also includes women in Syria. There too, we are proud, because we are, I believe, partly unique in the way we have trained women and given them a voice. The Syrian opposition has now, not least with the help of women, produced a very good document pointing out a peaceful and democratic way forward. That is what we would all like.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-156	Mr President, I would like to I came home last Friday from Diyarbakhār, located in eastern Turkey and northern Kurdistan. I know that there are cities in eastern Turkey that have received more refugees than Sweden has. When I saw the enormous efforts made in these cities to receive refugees, the rhetoric heard from the Swedish government about system collapse, need for breathing space and other things felt very remote. When I stood there in Diyarbakőr and thought about the debate we have had many times in this House and the rhetoric that we have heard about Syrian refugees, it was perhaps not exactly my pride. Mrs Wallström says that history will judge those responsible harshly. I am absolutely convinced of that. However, when history is to be written about Swedish migration policy, I do not think that it will only be rosy tributes that will be in the history books on the migration policy that Mrs Wallström's government has conducted over the past year. After all, the agreement reached by Mrs Wallström's government with Turkey means that Mr Erdo中an's increasingly authoritarian regime has become the EU's border guard. The consequence is that Turkey is now closing the borders and actively preventing people from leaving the hell of war behind and even getting a sanctuary in neighbouring Turkey. I have now had three interpellation debates with Mrs Wallström. They have concerned Yemen, Syria and Gaza. It's not a coincidence that I chose to set these interpellations now. That is the half-time for Mrs Wallström's government after a little more than two years in power and with almost two years left until the next elections. I think this government is facing a path. I have often stood in this House and welcomed various initiatives taken by Mrs Wallström, not least in relation to feminist foreign policy. But in the area by area, we see a foreign policy that is not really connected. Arms exports, migration policy and trade policy are not really linked to the fine rhetoric about women's rights, democracy and human rights. I believe that I and Mrs Wallström will continue to debate with each other.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-159	Mr President, I would like to I, too, hope that we will continue to debate these important issues. I am pleased with the great consensus that exists on the important issues that determine our future and concern wars, crises and conflicts around the world. It must guide our positions. As we often talk about, it is essential what human views and views of democracy and human rights prevail. There must be respect for international law and so on. I still do not think we have anything to be ashamed of in the way we have welcomed refugees. We also have to take responsibility for those who come here. No other country received as many unaccompanied minors per capita as we did. After all, it is also a question of what opportunities you have as a small country, and in the end this is, of course, a burden on our systems. If we want to give unaccompanied minors the same opportunities and rights in our society as those born here, we must also take care of the systems so that we can provide them with housing, education and, if necessary, care. We'll think about their future. No other country received so many unaccompanied children. I believe that it was also one of the reasons given to us to argue that others must be involved in taking responsibility. I believe that the European Union must deal with the burning refugee situation in the world on the basis of solidarity. We continue to receive a great many people who come and seek asylum in our country. We have not closed the borders at all, but we still have a task to deal with, and we will do so on the basis of these values.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-162	Mr President, I would like to Roland Utbolt has asked me how Sweden will act to speed up the implementation by the EU of effective sanctions against individuals in the Democratic Republic of Congo and to urge the Democratic Republic of Congo to strengthen dialogue with the international community under the Cotonou Agreement. I share Roland Utbolt's concern about the political situation in the DRK. Last spring I visited Kinshasa, which was the first Swedish Foreign Minister's visit in 13 years since Anna Lindhs's visit in 2003, and met representatives from the government, the opposition and civil society. My message was clear that elections needed to be conducted in accordance with the Constitution and its timeframes. I also expressed deep concern about the serious developments in human rights in the country. Since my visit last spring, EU foreign ministers have on two occasions adopted Council conclusions on the Democratic Republic of Congo in line with developments in the country. Sweden has highlighted in particular the importance of the work of regional actors and African countries and the EU's close dialogue with them, including the AU, as reflected in the adopted Council conclusions. In May, the Council stated clearly that all actors, including officials of the institutions responsible for justice and security, have a personal responsibility to act with strict respect for the rule of law and human rights. After the violence of 19 to 20 September, the Council's response in October was even clearer. These violences were condemned and the EU called on all parties to refrain from the use of violence. The EU will use all available means, including individual restrictive measures, against those responsible for serious human rights violations. The Council invited the High Representative to begin work to this end. When there are proposals, we will take a position on them in consultation with the other EU Member States. The question also concerned dialogue within the framework of the Cotonou Agreement. That agreement provides a framework for the EU's cooperation with African countries, among others. The Agreement institutionalised the political dialogue under Article 8 of the Agreement. It says that an in-depth political dialogue should be conducted between the parties. It should be able to deal with everything that helps to increase understanding of the principles underlying the agreement itself. In May, the EU stated that the Democratic Republic of Congo must fulfil its commitments under the Constitution and the agreements it has ratified, including the international conventions on human rights under the Cotonou Agreement. On this basis, the EU wanted to intensify its dialogue with the Government of the DRK. In June, this request was formalised with a call from the EU to the government to engage in political dialogue at the highest level, in accordance with Article 8. As this request has not yet been answered, in October the Council reiterated its call on the government to launch a political dialogue at the highest level as soon as possible. The government will continue to monitor events closely via the Embassy in Kinshasa. Sweden will also actively participate in the work of the UN Security Council during our membership in 2017 – 2018 to contribute to peaceful and democratic development in the country.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-172	Mr President, I would like to For the answer, Minister of Foreign Affairs! We agree that the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo is serious. I know that the Foreign Minister is well aware of the situation. Congo is currently in an extremely politically unstable situation. We both know Dr Denis Mukwege and his work at Panzi Hospital, where he is making great efforts to combat sexual violence and redress tens of thousands of victims of trafficking, war and abuse. This has meant that he has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize for several years. The Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats jointly arranged a seminar in the Riksdag just a month ago, including Mukwege and Anders Kompass. That is where the unstable situation in Congo was raised. I myself have visited Mukwege in Congo. A little curiosity in this regard is that my sister once taught Denis Mukwege at the mission school in Bukavu. According to the country's constitution, elections were scheduled for November this year. But the current government is trying to stay in power despite the fact that President Joseph has already been in his two presidential periods. Formally, he cannot run for office in the planned presidential elections, which are already severely delayed. After the president's party's unsuccessful attempts to change the Constitution, there were great popular protests. The Government of Congo then responded with brutal force against demonstrators, while human rights activists were arrested, threatened and harassed. Recently, some 50 people were reportedly killed after the military and police attacked protest demonstrations in Kinshasa, and many more have been injured or reported missing. Civil society actors from different camps express great concern for development. In this situation, it is interesting how Sweden will act to speed up the implementation of effective EU sanctions against individuals in Congo. The Minister for Foreign Affairs answers my question that Sweden is doing what is necessary through the EU. Here I could settle for the answer and sit back. That's what I feel the Secretary of State and the Department are doing, too. It is inclined that the EU will solve this. However, President Joseph of Congo does not even speak to the High Representative of the United Nations in Congo. So Kabila ignores the UN. What makes the Foreign Minister think that Kabila would listen to the High Representative of the European Union? I am not entirely satisfied with the answer. The United States imposed sanctions on two members of the Kabila inner circle, John Numbi and Gabriel Amisi Kumba, on September 28 this year. It is seen as a warning to President Kabila to respect the country's constitution. USA does a workshop, but what does Sweden do?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-180	Mr President, I would like to It is a very tragic development we are seeing, but there is still a light in the tunnel in some way. I've seen the film that was shown in Parliament. It is amazing what has been achieved in order to redress the victims of the sexual violence that is part of the conflict. Sexual violence has been used as a weapon. Denis Mukwege has operated on many of the victims. It is gratifying to note that fewer adult women now need surgery, but fewer young and even children. A light in the tunnel is all the thousands who have been operated on and where the perpetrators have begun to be brought to justice. It has begun to be seen as a war crime and to highlight what was invisible before. Denis Mukwege herself says that Margot Wallström's work, when she was the UN Secretary-General's special representative for combating sexual violence in conflicts, was very important. He felt that this increased pressure on the regime. He has a hope that when we now enter the UN Security Council, where Mrs Wallström again becomes a very important representative, one can once again put pressure on those issues. This, of course, is not the only question. Now we see total chaos with murdering and a civil war that is at worst at the door. Nevertheless, it is important to continue to hold on to the issues of sexual violence. Denis Mukwege himself says that the risk is obvious that sexual violence will accelerate so that it gets much worse. It is a step in the exercise of power where women's and children's lives are torn apart, because you also go after children, physically and mentally at all levels. You destroy families, and entire communities get torn apart in that way. It is very important that, even in the emergency situation we are now in, we do not forget these issues. Then there is the risk of going back to the way it was before when it was completely invisible. The Foreign Minister clearly states in his reply that the EU is not alien to taking measures that could help in this situation, including restrictions on individuals. We'll do whatever it takes. Nevertheless, the EU is a strong weapon because it is made up of a great many countries. What Sweden does as an individual country is of course important. But it is even more important to ensure that the EU takes a strong stance. It will have a greater impact not least internationally to press the regime in the Congo Kinshasa but also to ensure that the UN and others raise the issue and increase the pressure. It looks very dark right now, but one still has somewhere the hope that a full-scale civil war can be avoided. We all know that it is much harder to rebuild, and all that Denis Mukwege and his associates have done is in danger of being completely destroyed. Denis Mukwege says that the Foreign Minister herself took great risks when she was a special representative in the area of sexual violence. He himself has taken great risks and refuses to go into exile even though he has been subjected to death threats and even attempted murder. It is a difficult situation now, but I think we can agree that we should do everything we can. The European Union is an important player, and I believe that the European Union will also take this seriously.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-188	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Roland Utbolt for the matter and for his commitment and the expressed concern about the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We who have been there have forever left a piece of our hearts and our commitment there – in this great, amazing and many times quite hopeless country. I raised the issue only yesterday when the foreign ministers met in Brussels. I then argued that we should engage much more explicitly, and I called on colleagues to make the necessary contacts also with other African countries in order to try to influence President Kabila in this situation. Hopefully we can stick to what was an agreement on a transitional period led by the African Union and ensure that we prevent outbreaks of violence in the future. In addition, this issue is already on the Security Council's agenda in January. That is why the Security Council has been visiting Congo and is perhaps still there today. They can therefore see and follow developments on the ground and hopefully have a better basis to stand on for a decision that may need to be taken in January. This will be an important task for Sweden as Chairman of the Security Council. Yesterday, the Prime Minister resigned and is to be replaced by an opposition representative. Let us hope that this can be done peacefully. If it's somewhere we lean, Roland Utbolt, it's forward. We are moving forward on this issue. I personally have raised this repeatedly in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. We are fully prepared to take this kind of action against the Democratic Republic of Congo too, but we are doing so in the European Union. That's just how it can have a real effect. It is one thing that America can go on its own and think that they can decide on sanctions or different regulations of this kind, but in the European circle we have promised each other that we will try to stick together. We know that it gives greater effect and better results. Denis Mukwege is an amazing person who deserves support and support and all the help and protection he can get. I would say that it is an important task for the UN to do everything we can to ensure that he has this protection. He is a very important person for the whole of Congo and, above all, he is the personification of the fight against sexual violence as a weapon and a strategy in war and conflict. He has done great things for many women and girls in Congo, and he continues to be a person who inspires us to continue in both the EU and the UN context.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-194	Mr President, I would like to We have an interesting history when it comes to Sweden and Congo. In the 1960s, many Swedish UN soldiers participated in the so-called Congo crisis. Over 6,000 soldiers were there. Several were killed, and others were injured. Dag Hammarskjöld, UN Secretary General, was killed in Africa during this period. For over 100 years, we have had missionaries and other relief workers in place. Today, PMU Interlife, Medical Mission and other major efforts in the area. We have a relationship with Congo, and Congo's thing is ours. Both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Hillevi Larsson now refer to the EU as the channel for changing the situation. I'd like to problematize it a little bit. It may be that, given our historical background and our relationship with Congo, President Kabila would still listen to the Swedish Foreign Minister. I do not think that we should reduce our own importance in world politics, and Hillevi Larsson mentioned the foreign minister's previous importance. However, my question remains: how are we going to get this about sanctions being imposed on individuals in Congo? What are we waiting for? Are there countries in the EU that are blocking it? Why aren't we moving on? I hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs is relying on the EU. In her reply, she said that in May the EU stated that the Democratic Republic of Congo must fulfil its obligations under the Constitution, including the international conventions on human rights under the Cotonou Agreement. On this basis, the EU wanted to intensify its dialogue with the government in D.R.K. In June, this request was formalised with a call from the EU to the government to engage in political dialogue at the highest level, in accordance with Article 8. In October, the Council reiterated its call to the government to launch a political dialogue at the highest level as soon as possible. The Minister for Foreign Affairs continues to monitor events closely via the Kinshasa Embassy. Sweden will also actively participate in the work of the UN Security Council during our membership 2017 – 2018 to contribute to peaceful and democratic development in the country. ..................................................... To me, this does not really sound like it does when the Foreign Minister speaks. I get the feeling that there is no active political effort but more a passive effort to influence the unstable situation in Congo. It sounds good that we should contribute to the peaceful and democratic development of the country, but to me it is the most word. Action is needed here. Until December, there is a negotiating position. Information from sources close to Kabila says they have been waiting for the election in the United States, because if Trump wins, he doesn't care much about Africa. If the United States is cutting back on its pressure, this is an EU issue entirely. What role does the EU play when Trump does not care? I know that the Foreign Minister wants Congo's 71 million people well. But how do we get on with it?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-201	Mr President, I would like to The EU has been working on this issue for a long time. There was an agreement on the mineral trade. In our electronics that we buy here in the EU, there are metals that come from Congo-Kinshasa, especially from the eastern part. Some of this has been developed through violations of human rights, where warlords have driven villagers from the areas where the metals are. Then they have been able to extract the metals, and they have also used pure slave and child labour in extraction. This has been a way for them to make money, but it is also a way of strengthening their power in the civil war. So it has a double negative effect. The EU has come up with an agreement whereby commodity importers and smelters must account for the origin of the metals. It's one way to get to this trade. The European Union has therefore tried effectively, that is to say, if it succeeds. There is, of course, a risk of finding loopholes. But going for the money is effective. The same goes for Daish. To strangle the flow of money could be a way to get at them. Of course they can buy more weapons and gain more power if they make more money. It is therefore important to follow up on this agreement, which the EU already has. Then you can see how it works in practice. Perhaps it needs to be tightened up further. As Mrs Wallström says, no action is alien to the EU, nor are there restrictions on individuals. That is what Denis Mukwege advocates, among other things. The problem is probably not Europe in this context. Among other things, the problem is what is happening in the rest of the world. However, I believe that Europe can be an important force for highlighting this issue.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-208	Mr President, I would like to What happened in the autumn was that there was a dialogue, led by the African Union. It led to a settlement between the presidential majority and parts of the opposition, which have been part of that dialogue. That agreement is currently being implemented. It is therefore important to follow this very closely, and to encourage everyone to remain calm, refrain from violence and live up to the elements of the settlement. The issue will land at the Security Council table in January. We already know that. That's why what's happening right now is very important. We will use all our political contacts to help the other African leaders press Kabila, and we call for calm and constructive attitude from the opposition as well. We also point out how important it is for women also to be involved and to have a voice throughout the process. We'll help with that. Therefore, it is not up to the day to make this kind of decision. But we have asked for it to be prepared so that we can use it too, when it is the best and most effective weapon. But the next stage will definitely be in January in the Security Council. Until then, we call for dialogue in accordance with the Cotonou Agreement. As I said, we call on the opposition to act constructively. We will work to ensure that the Council, too, will use all available tools to prevent the use of violence and promote democratic development. These are the platforms we have. We are fully active, more active than many other members of the European Union. And we will play our role as President of the Security Council in January. As far as the conflict minerals are concerned, I'm proud. I immediately changed the policy of the previous government on conflict minerals. They had signaled that they agreed to something that was entirely voluntary. We have now pushed it to the point that we have a compulsory regime for recording the use of conflict minerals to get control of it. This is very important, for example, in order to curb sexual violence and what can be said to be slave labour in eastern Congo. The violence has also been burned because of the conflict minerals. Different rebel groups have been able to be financed by them. This also applies to the ability of the government army to acquire weapons. The work on the conflict minerals is therefore very important in the future. We continue to act in solidarity and actively in the European Union. Together with other Member States, we can be effective, even when and if we need to decide on additional sanctions. What is the right way forward will also come to light in January.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-215	Mr President, I would like to Now, of course, I would feel calm and secure in the future. But we both know that the situation in Congo is unstable. We have as our common goal that there should be democratic development in the country. Of course, we fully agree on that. One of the most effective means of exerting pressure is economic instruments. If Trumps's isolationist policy leads to a decrease in his interest in Africa, responsibility for the EU will increase. This may be a sidetrack, but it is also very much about Europe when millions of young people in many African countries who have lost faith in the future turn their eyes on Europe and begin to come here. Corruption and mutual strife never end in many of the countries. This is why young people lose hope of the future, lack vision and start looking up towards Europe. The EU has supported development through aid. But now it's about the continuation. Now there is a negotiating opportunity in Congo. The Secretary of State has explained some of what is happening there. Finally, I would like to ask how the EU and our Foreign Minister can influence the future, including within the UN Security Council. I want to find out, with many others. We want results. I guess I'll have to come back in spring and ask how it goes. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this debate and conclude by saying: the Congo's cause is ours.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-221	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roland Utbolt! It was good that we had this debate on Congo. I am afraid that we will not be able to remain calm and secure for a long time than we have in relation to developments in Congo. We will need to keep an eye on developments there. We will have to act actively. As I said, we do so through our natural foreign policy platforms, both through the European Union and through the United Nations. In this way, we will be stronger and more effective, including the day on which we may impose sanctions. At the moment, an agreement is being implemented. Therefore, there is no time to come up with anything that could interfere with that process. Rather, we should ensure that we live up to our commitments and that we can maintain a peaceful and peaceful development in the country. I also think that Congo is our business. We have an amazing story. The Congoveterans are always interesting to talk to. And we have questions to continue to monitor, such as the conflict minerals and how they are going. We will also continue our contacts with the country. I hope that Roland Utbolt trusts us to do our best and that I will do my best in the Security Council in January, so that we can have good decisions and continue to encourage other African leaders to take an interest in what is happening in Congo as well. Unfortunately, it will spill over on the neighbouring countries in Africa, but perhaps also in a positive way.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-225	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the number of people on the fast track and to overcome the shortcomings in the management of the fast track by the Public Employment Service. The fast track is running, and the work has come different stages. In some fast tracks the work works well. Others still face major challenges. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen continues to develop fast track together with the social partners. The Government's ambition is that the fast track should lead to more newly arrived women and men being able to establish themselves more quickly in the labour market and that industries where there is a shortage of labour should be helped with skills provision. Fast track is currently available in twelve different sectors, which together cover around twenty professions. More than 2,000 people have started a fast track between January and August this year. In Arbetsförmedlingen's report Arbetsförmedlingen's situation assessment of the fast track work, which came on 13 October 2016, an overall assessment is made of the current situation in the fast track. It also addresses challenges and how the agency intends to continue its work. The purpose of the screening is, among other things, to identify and remedy obstacles that delay the way to work for new arrivals who have experience or training in a deficiency profession. The Public Employment Service will continue to develop the fast track work. These include improving the quality of job identification so that the participants in the actions meet the needs of employers. Arbetsförmedlingen also sees a need to do deeper analysis of, among other things, possible participants and geographical spread in view of possible new fast track. The Public Employment Service will also ensure that there are fewer and clear channels of contact with the Agency to address the parties' current issues, reconnect and follow-up. This is so that they do not have to navigate the organisation of the Employment Service in order to find the right entrance and that the problems that have arisen are quickly identified and addressed. Arbetsförmedlingen continues its work together with the parties. During the autumn, Arbetsförmedlingen will have follow-up meetings for each fast track. The aim is to identify the success factors and obstacles that exist and jointly develop the work further.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-232	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson for the answer to my interpellation regarding the fast track establishment. In the answer, there are some good intentions, ambitions and many fine words, but I find it difficult to see any concrete measures or suggestions as to how the Minister wants the fast track to work. These are mostly references to Arbetsförmedlingen, but it is the government that governs and regulates Arbetsförmedlingen's assignments. You have been able to take part in a lot of criticism of the fast track. There are some who have not got started at all. There is a change of handler, and the companies are tired and leave it all behind. Some flash marks have been shot at in the future for a year or so. I thought the idea of fast track was for those who come here quickly to get support to get into the labour market. Therefore, it would be interesting to know what the government wants more concretely. We have major challenges with integration in Sweden. In some parts the problems are growing. It takes far too long for newcomers to become part of Swedish society, to get a job and be able to support themselves. After eight years in Sweden, only about a quarter of the new arrivals have got a full-time job. It is therefore important that we act in order to increase the number of jobs in our country, but also in order for them to benefit those who are farthest from the labour market. Sweden is doing well in many ways. We are in a boom. Those who have education, those who are well-established in Sweden and those who have low thresholds into the labour market get jobs. On the other hand, the new exclusion is increasing. Those who are far from the labour market are becoming more and they are getting further and further away from it. That is why it is important to create a working fast track for those who are enrolled in the Employment Service's establishment programme so that those who come to our country get jobs and are integrated instead of receiving subsidies and segregation. We support the fast track. Unfortunately, we have received numerous testimony that the fast track is not working. Of 58 000, 2 400 – 4 percent of the participants have entered the fast track. The fast track has thus worked as badly as the government's other job initiatives: trainee jobs, extra services and training contracts. All efforts should be marginally likened to labour market policy fiasco, not least if we take as a starting point what the Minister and the other government said in the run-up to the elections when we promised around, but kept relatively thin. Ylva Johansson often claims that it is she who is going to get the jobs, and she is usually very satisfied with the government's policy. She has also had a very high tailline on these issues. What does Ylva Johansson intend to do to make the fast track work?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-240	Mr President, I would like to I have read the answer that Christian Holm Barenfeld received from the Minister. I also think it feels like the government and the Minister are hiding behind Arbetsförmedlingen; like all the problems are the Arbetsförmedlingen's fault. If so, one becomes even more concerned that we have such a poor Employment Service – perhaps our biggest agency – where one cannot manage to do one of the core tasks that one actually has. Unemployment among foreign-borns is increasing. The fast tracks were meant to be for that group. Unemployment is over 22% in this group, and it is serious. I have taken note of criticism from the employers' side. Arbetsförmedlingen is accused of having cooperation problems, and that is serious. I am also concerned that the Employment Service – which has a budget of over 77 billion – is doing very badly in its work. I think the fast track is a good idea. That was the right idea, but the result is still devastatingly bad. Several hits have been cancelled even though it has been claimed that there would be several hundred different engineers and people in other professions, but no more than a single one has arrived. It hasn't turned into anything. So the mapping has not worked. The follow-up has not worked. Perhaps the question should be asked in another interpellation: What does the government do to see what the Public Employment Service is doing, for example, when it comes to the fast track? In the reply, the report mentions the situational assessment of the work on the fast track by Arbetsförmedlingen. I haven't read the full report, so I can't comment on it. But there should be a lot that the Minister could use to do something about the Employment Service. When employers from so many different sectors say that there are cooperation problems and that it does not work, even though there are agreements with both trade unions and employers, something is obviously wrong with the authority. In the meantime, people go and wait, and their hopes rise, but hope dies. We can't have it like that. We need to be much better in Sweden at ensuring that this group – which has an education and has experience from its home country – could step straight into the Swedish labour market, especially in those professions where there is a shortage of people and where you search with light and lantern to get people to hire. And yet it doesn't work. The ambition was good, but the result is shrewd. I think the Minister should take a little more responsibility for that, and I think the answer is vague. One gets a little concerned if the Minister for Labour is not more concerned about this result.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-249	Mr President, I would like to The first fast tracks started at the beginning of this year. There has been an extensive media attention to the fast track in local media. There have been some criticisms and some shortcomings have been pointed out, but the overwhelming picture is, of course, praise. There are many sunshine stories about how people who were previously forced to wait too long before they were allowed to work in their profession can now do so much more quickly. I think you have to be able to see both. Work is moving in the right direction. We have come a long way, but that does not mean that there are no areas that need to be improved. Mr President, I would like to It is worth recalling, however, the rescheduling of labour market policies for newcomers. Under the previous government, all new arrivals would have the same effort. Everyone was supposed to have an establishment slot, that's what it looked like. It was a policy that was rarely ill-suited to meet people with very different conditions and needs to enter the Swedish labour market. Some of those who come to Sweden have hardly any school background at all. Some people may never have worked. At the same time, there are people who are well established in their profession. About a third of them have post-secondary education. It is clear that these people need to be treated in different ways and in the best way to get the step into the Swedish labour market. That is the policy shift that the government has done. It is now starting to produce results. We see that the proportion that comes to work or studies after two years in the start-up assignment is increasing, despite the fact that volumes have doubled during this time. Christian Holm Barenfeld addresses those who are farthest from the labour market. There are major challenges, and I and Christian Holm Barenfeld have discussed this on other occasions. The fast track is not aimed at those who are farthest from the labour market. The fast track is aimed at those who have professional experience or training in professions where there is a shortage of the Swedish labour market. Let's make that clear. This is the group where the fast tracks turn. We think it is a huge waste that it cannot go faster than it has done so far. However, it is not, as Katarina Brännström says, about people who can step straight into the Swedish labour market. It turns out that there are smaller differences. However, there are sometimes significant differences between the professional skills available in the home country and the professional skills required in the Swedish labour market. That's exactly where the fast tracks come in. They provide an assessment of competence and additional training. It is clear that Arbetsförmedlingen needs to be better at identifying and assessing skills, as shown in Arbetsförmedlingen's own review. Being able to do this should be the core competence of the Public Employment Service. It is also an area where they should be better when it comes to new arrivals. There are people who have stated that they have worked in a particular profession, and have certainly done so, but who, in relation to the Swedish labour market, are far from the profession. There are others who are much closer. Let me take chefs as an example. In Sweden there is a great shortage of chefs today. One of the first fast tracks was about chefs. Barely 80 people have gone through this fast track and have been able to get a job as a chef. Even more people in the system would have been desirable. There are probably more people with this experience, but Arbetsförmedlingen must be better at finding them and locating them directly to the fast track. It is precisely this work that Arbetsförmedlingen is now doing and improving.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-258	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear: of course I know that you do not turn to the newcomers who are the furthest from the labour market. But very few new arrivals are close to the labour market if they are not given the support they need in terms of language and validated skills. There are still major shortcomings there. It's not about the government being too fast track and we're against them. I believe that we are all in favour of them and want them to work and that those with skills actually enter the labour market. There were, however, few concrete messages from Ylva Johansson. We received the standard response that the minister usually gives: the shortcomings and shortcomings of the previous government came up. And it is not the present government that lacks the ability to deal with the problems that Sweden is facing, but it was the alliance government. That's what it sounds like no matter what question you raise. I know Ylva Johansson didn't like the Alliance government. In fact, in view of her party membership, this is quite reasonable and certainly not remarkable. It is not even surprising that Ylva Johansson also now disagrees with me, the Moderates and the Alliance. After all, we are different parties. On the other hand, it is remarkable that the government has an inability to deliver its own concrete proposals that produce results. Looking back, blaming others and backing into the future does not solve any problems and does not create any confidence. We Moderates have put forward a whole series of proposals on what we want to do. We have also seen self-critically back– I think it's important to do – to see what we did that was good as well as what we did that was less good. We made changes for the starters because we saw that they did not work in the way we wanted. We have worked through our policies and have presented new solutions. I recommend the current government to do the same, because it usually gives better results. If I don't remember wrong, we have 14 fast tracks today. We have a shortage in a certain number of professions. Ylva Johansson himself mentioned chefs. We also see that there are chefs who have work permits and work but who are now told that they are not allowed to keep the work permits and are to be expelled. This is, in part, another discussion. But here some trade unions probably have some work to do to improve the opportunities for these people. Even butchers, painters and socionomists are missing. In the media, you can read about sociologists who have signed up for education and then learned that they will be cancelled. When questions are asked to Arbetsförmedlingen's various responsible persons, they do not want or can not comment on this or give feedback. You can blame the Arbetsförmedlingen, but I don't want to do that. I'm sure there might be flaws there. Nevertheless, it is the policy that gives directives and governs. What does Ylva Johansson want in concrete terms? I therefore again ask my questions: what does Ylva Johansson intend to do to make the fast track work? What will she do to get those who are in the new exclusion, but who have skills, to work? And what will she do to increase the number of people entering the labour market? We can certainly have a discussion about simple jobs, which we have had on previous occasions, for those who may not have work experience or education and are far from the labour market. However, that is another issue. Now it is about the fast track and those with good skills.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-266	Mr President, I would like to There are sunshine stories, says Ylva Johansson. I think that's great, but they're far too few. The stories of grief, sorrow, and loss of hope are many more. More than 2,000 people are in work, but 58,000 new arrivals are in line. There is no blame on the alliance government which ruled during the last parliamentary term. The problems have accelerated now. During the last term of office, many were in the start-up phase. These are now in line at Arbetsförmedlingen. Has any of the government's job proposals been successful? I don't think so. This is what we criticise, whenever we have heard the Minister say so many times that everyone should have a job or education within two years. This is obvious, and I will arrange it, Ylva Johansson has said. You don't seem to be able to cope with these simple things – the fast track is probably one of the simpler challenges in the rather tough challenge of getting foreign born to work. The survey is a core task of the Employment Service, but it does not work. Why doesn't it? What are they doing at Arbetsförmedlingen? The shortcomings of the Public Employment Service go directly back to shortcomings of the government, which is not in control. A number of these professions are slow to do so. I hope that the government will have greater happiness in what it does, because otherwise it will look much worse in a few years' time. It would be devastating for these people, as well as for Sweden, who need to get them to work.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-271	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström wonders if there is something that works in the government's employment policy. Yes, unemployment falls, youth unemployment falls sharply, the employment rate increases – the employment rate increases most for foreign born people – and the share in the start-up assignment that has worked or is in post-employment studies increases even though volumes have doubled. One can always wish that things could go even faster and that there are even more, but it is quite clear that since we changed governments we have also had a different development in the labour market. No, Christian Holm Barenfeld, it is of course not the fault of the previous government that there are also shortcomings in the fast track. It is entirely my responsibility, as it is my responsibility to remedy this. We are now doing so. I feel very confident that the fast track will deliver everything better. Those who have been up and running the longest have only been up and running for less than a year. However, I think that there is reason to point out the political differences. We have exchanged start-up slots and tax reductions for investments in education, flexibility at the Swedish Public Employment Service and various contributions for different individuals based on their individual needs. We cooperate with the social partners. This is a rescheduling of policy. That doesn't mean I'm happy with everything. There's more to do. Employment services need to be improved in early mapping, they need to be better placed on easier contact paths for employers, which they are currently working on, and they need to review the regional distribution of where people with certain skills can be given the opportunity to enter a fast track. However, developments are moving in the right direction.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-275	Madam President, I would like It's good it wasn't all the alliance government's fault. At the same time, the Minister returns to the fact that we reduced taxes. We did. We actually lowered the taxes. People who worked had to keep more of what they earned with their own hands. They kept it in their wallet. Tax money that came into the state increased. More people were working. If we are to be honest – and I think we should be honest – then it is also the case that the current government realises that our tax cuts were effective, good and important for more jobs. That is why Ylva Johansson and her government have not abolished the Alliance's first, second, third, fourth or fifth job tax deductions, which they were against each year and then for. It is good that we do not impair what was good, and it is good if we try to ensure that the worker retains more of his salary. But we have a challenge when it comes to jobs. Reducing the number of people in the employment phase. It is good if they go out in other jobs, but at the same time we see that out of trainee services and other things that would replace this it has become 254 out of 32 000. So it's about per mille. Of the additional posts, there have been 1 479 out of 20 000 and less than 2 000 training contracts. There's a lot of things that aren't delivered. I want to be involved in ensuring that we can get fast-tracks that work so that you can get jobs and integrate instead of being excluded and segregated. 2,400 out of 58 000, i.e. 4%, of those on the establishment line have entered the fast track. It is an understatement to the government that every measure does not deliver more than a few percent of what was promised in the first place.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christian Holm Barenfeld, for the debate! We will certainly have reason to come back to the fast track, because I think we will see further improvements in the results of these in the near future. Let me also comment on this with the job tax deductions. That is quite right: tax cuts are over. In your time, you turned 70 billion in surplus in public finances into 60 billion in deficit. Now we have a new policy. Government deficits are now falling. Tax cuts are over. Let's invest. Now we have changed the policy, and unemployment is now falling. We will have to come back with more measures, but we are on the right track.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-282	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has asked me what measures I intend to take as a minister to make the Swedish Work Environment Authority more effective and to improve the work environment. First of all, I would like to remind you that, between 2007 and 2009, the former bourgeois government reduced the appropriations of the National Agency for the Environment by 30%. As a result, the number of employees at the Swedish Work Environment Authority decreased by over 300, which corresponds to one third of the personnel. The current government has increased the level of ambition in health and safety policy by investing SEK 100 million annually. The strategy focuses on concrete actions in three priority areas: zero vision against fatal accidents and prevention of accidents at work, sustainable working life and psychosocial work environment. Through the reinforcements carried out in 2015 and 2016 and now proposed in the budget proposal for 2017, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has been able to recruit new occupational health and safety inspectors. In 2015 and 2016, 75 inspectors could be recruited, and a new extensive recruitment process is currently under way. Inspectors undergo solid, year-long training before they are fully ready to inspect workplaces. In addition, the Government has set up a dialogue forum to discuss and follow up the OSH strategy together with the social partners. The Government has also set up an investigation to review the OSH acquis so that it is adapted to a modern working life and an investigation to establish a national centre for knowledge and evaluation of OSH. As regards the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Government returns with a response to the Riksdag according to the procedures available for this.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-288	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. The background to my interpellation is that, for eight years, Ylva Johansson and the Social Democrats have strongly criticised the then government and even accused former labour ministers of accidents at work and death. It was a pat chase without its like – sometimes quite distasteful, as it is actually about people's lives. Suddenly, in the midst of a debate, a Socialist Member of Parliament announced a minute's silence in this Chamber for the deaths of a workplace accident the day before. Criticism was harsh even though the statistics showed that the working environment actually improved. The number of deaths fell to record low levels, and workplace-related accidents and diseases decreased. You can tell if you relate it to the number of hours worked, and you have to do that. More workers also increase the risk of accidents. Therefore, it would be interesting to see what would happen to a new government when all the fine promises would be fulfilled. In my interpellation, I write that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has received increased resources in order to increase supervision. Surprisingly, however, the number of labour inspectorates has fallen drastically. It's strange, isn't it? Worse still, the number of injunctions and prohibitions issued by the Swedish Work Environment Authority has decreased considerably. There have also been fewer visits. And this has happened in the last two years, that is, since the current government took office. It is therefore worse today than it was under the alliance government, despite a larger budget. What happened? Everything was supposed to be so good! Unfortunately, the Minister does not answer my question, which was what the Minister intends to do to make the Swedish Work Environment Authority more effective and deliver better results. Madam President, I would like During the alliance period, we felt that what was important was what was done and where was done, not just the number of inspections. Each inspector became 40% more efficient with more inspections per person. Preventive work and information were improved. It was on poor employers and risky industries that one should concentrate, not on making annual visits to already talented and caring employers. It was a more modern way of doing work environment work. What the Minister did not mention in his reply to me was that we increased the Agency's funding every year after 2009. I've had a good time studying the Swedish Work Environment Authority's statistics. It is actually difficult to see whether the operation is effective. Nor can it be said what is a workplace accident or occupational injury. The number of notifications is not a safe measure of how the work environment is doing at different workplaces, and it is not at all certain that the increasing sickness rates are related to the work environment. There is a lot to do here for the government as well. The strategy for health and safety at work adopted by the Government is detailed. The aim is certainly good, but it risks colliding with the Swedish Work Environment Authority's own priorities in the necessary development work that the work is doing. The Swedish National Audit Office has also made criticisms. I know the government will respond to it shortly, but the audit report is available and provides good information. Unfortunately, it's pretty critical. Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Ylva Johansson that perhaps it is not the size of the budget of the Swedish Work Environment Agency that affects the number of deaths or occupational accidents at Swedish workplaces, as Ylva Johansson said during the previous government. Perhaps a minister cannot influence the working environment in Swedish workplaces – although this has previously been suggested.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an important debate. Thank you, Katarina Brännström, who has asked these questions! I will focus on the health and safety strategy that the Minister is talking about in his response. It prioritises three areas, and the psychosocial working environment is one of the elements highlighted by the government. This is extremely important because it is where we see a sharp increase in stress-related psychosocial illness. It is therefore worrying that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's inspections have been reduced. Unhealthy stress in the workplace is the most common cause of sick leave. Between 2010 and 2015, the number of sick leavers due to stress increased by 119 per cent. Stress-related sick leave thus accounts for a significant part of the total increase in sick leave. The risk of getting sick from stress in the workplace is greater in women-dominated occupations. There are a lot of statistics that show that even men who work in traditionally women-dominated occupations are affected – they are twice as likely to be sick as men who work in male-dominated occupations. Therefore, the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulation on social and organizational work environment is very important. It goes without saying that it must be followed up, and support must be given to those companies, especially in the public sector, where we see this massive increase in stress-related ill-health taking place. The working environment has changed. From the beginning, there was a lot of focus on physical work environment – heavy lifting and physically dangerous workplaces – but today the organisational and social work environment has become even more important. That is where we see the large increases in sick leave. According to the new regulation, the employer is responsible for ensuring that managers and supervisors gain knowledge about how to prevent such things and handle work environment. This involves, among other things, unhealthy workload. There the public sector is certainly not the best in the class. In fact, it is we politicians who own this issue, because we are employers in municipalities and county councils. It should really be a priority everywhere in Sweden, but unfortunately that is not the case. Organisational leadership is also about providing sufficient resources in municipalities and county councils, as well as organising and not removing staff. As soon as you want to save money, you are happy to remove the assistant for an intermediate manager, for example. We who are in leading positions in municipalities and county councils – mostly social democrats, in fact – need to look at how to get a better working environment. It is also a competitive advantage. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has a great deal of expertise and can help and support. I have a question about healthy workplaces. What does the Minister think should be done to get more healthy jobs in the contact professions? The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work makes interesting reports. There you can see that smaller workplaces have higher health rates. This is because the decision-making process between manager and employee is considerably shorter in smaller companies. In addition, more is governed by law in a municipality or county council, and this can make it difficult to prioritise. You have to have good management, so that you dare prioritise when dealing with statutory activities. So my question is: what is it that is required for us to have more healthy jobs?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-310	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what my colleagues Katarina Brännström and Lotta Finstorp have said. I reacted to Ylva Johansson once again taking its starting point in what the previous alliance government did and did not. Of course, according to Ylva Johansson's way of seeing it, it meant that we worsened the situation. Ylva Johansson and her fellow party members were very critical of the alliance government even during our reign. Some savings were made, but the important thing is, as Katarina Brännström said, not only how much money there is but also what you do and what is the mission. Now the money is increasing, but we can still see fewer inspections. This shows that it is about how to prioritise and how to use the money. Unfortunately, accidents sometimes happen, both inside and outside workplaces. Of course, we must do what we can to reduce accidents at work and preferably not happen at all. When our current Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht was a Member of Parliament, he stood here in the speaker's chair and spoke about the increase in accidents. He talked about people who went to work but never came home again, and he observed a minute's silence for them. He held the then minister and alliance government accountable and blamed our health and safety policy. I'm not going to sink to that level. I won't hold any quiet minutes. I will not personally blame the Minister for Labour for the tragic accidents in which people die in the workplace. I hope that we can all agree that they will be reduced. But what are you supposed to do? We do not see any reductions, but rather the opposite. I do not think that is due to government policy. I do not think it is Ylva Johansson's fault when people have accidents at their workplaces. Rather, we should have a discussion about what we can do to make them fewer and to make the work carried out by the Swedish Work Environment Authority more effective. I would like to hear a little more concrete from Ylva Johansson : What to do, how to use the money properly, and how to increase inspections?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-317	Madam President, I would like It is not entirely irrelevant what policy has been pursued over eight years. This is an area where it takes time to change. It is both about inspections to get the work environment in order and about how the workers are doing in their workplaces. If you make massive cuts that mean that people get to work more because their co-workers have been laid off – there were staff cuts in the public sector during the previous government – it can still take quite a few years before they get sick. You can cope with the pressure for quite a few years, but then it is no longer possible. Similar things have been seen during the cuts in the 1990s. It wasn't when people got sick, but it took time. Then came a very large sickness rate. So it builds up for a long time. The same applies, of course, to the work environment carried out by the Swedish Work Environment Agency's inspectors and, of course, also to the research and work related to it. The research was broken down when the Institute of Occupational Life, which had world-leading research in the field, was shut down. If you are at the forefront of research into what causes diseases in working life and how to deal with them, such closure will of course affect both the working environment and the risk of illness and accidents at work. The government has deployed efforts as soon as it has been given the opportunity and has been able to implement its budget. After all, it is not for as long as we have been able to do so. A zero vision of fatal accidents should be a matter of course. We already have it in traffic. We have also been able to see that we have been able to reduce road deaths, and I am absolutely convinced that we can reduce deaths in working life as well. But then you have to have a vision and a clear goal to operate from outside. The fact that you actually have a zero vision is, in my opinion, an important step. It is crucial to lift also the psychosocial work environment, because that is where you can now see the large sickness rates. Some of them are of course related to wear and tear, but it is also mental illness that is caused in a lot by stress and understaffing. Emphasis on this is crucial for the priorities at the workplace and for the priorities of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Reducing occupational diseases and injuries are other important priorities. What is perhaps most important is that you actually provide resources. There'll be more OSH inspectors now. It is true that we need more inspections, but this is largely due to the fact that there have been too few safety and health inspectors. The government has already increased the number, and we will continue to increase it. It is said that there are too few people and that they do not have time to get out. Of course, there are other factors. For example, the Swedish Work Environment Authority says that women's work environment has been looked at in particular. The work environment at school has been looked at, which has been resource-intensive to carry out inspections of. Nevertheless, these are crucial areas. We can see that there is a lot of stress in school. School is crucial to the development of society as a whole, to bring down unemployment and so on. When it comes to women's work environment, we can say that this is where we see the large sickness rates due to mental illness, in many cases caused by stress. The government has really taken a lot of action. But of course it takes time to reverse the trend. This is happening for a long time. But the question is: What else would the government do if it is not about prioritising work environment management and increasing resources? Should we cut back, as previous governments have done?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-325	Madam President, I would like I did not really intend to prolong this debate, but there is one issue that bothers me a little: that the Social Democracy always blames the previous government. In fact, now it is you who are in charge and able to fix the problems that exist. If you look at the Swedish Work Environment Authority in particular, you might wonder if we get the right things out of the money we put into that business. We're talking about input and output, are we getting the right output from everything we put in? I was amused to look at a report from the Swedish National Audit Office 2004:14. The allocation to the Swedish Work Environment Authority was increased by 40 per cent from 2000 to 2004 – we are talking about SEK 160 million. As early as 2004, the Swedish National Audit Office noted that it was unclear whether the supervision had been properly targeted and whether visits were made to the right places, where there were most ill health and most accidents. As early as 2000 – 2004, significant gaps in objectives and follow-up were identified. In 2014, Statskontoret presented a report showing that the productivity of the Swedish Work Environment Authority had increased. However, in part it was also assessed that the work could be made more effective. So this is not just a question of resources, how much money we put in. The question is whether the money is being used properly. When I look at our moderate budget, I can also note that the Moderates have chosen to spend more money on the Swedish Work Environment Authority than the Social Democratic Government does. If I don't remember completely wrong, there's 56 million more. Then why do we do it? Well, it's a special effort aimed at women in public employers. That is where we see that there are shortcomings in leadership and that the staff do not feel taken seriously. This is also where we have the rising sickness rates. The Moderates therefore want to make special efforts in the traditional women's professions, because that is where we see that many get sick and feel that they are not enough. Now we can see that the government has contributed a lot of money, given more money to some missions and cut back on inspections, and it does not feel very effective. It is therefore a question of looking at whether we are doing the right things with the money we spend on the business. As far as the Labour Institute is concerned, the government has all the power in the world to rebuild it if it is so very important, but in this as on so many other issues it is a rhetoric that is only heard in the speaker's chair. This also applies to taxes: the government increases taxes but on the other hand accepts the tax cuts made by the Alliance. You don't really understand how you're supposed to be.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-332	Madam President, I would like You can say a lot about Katarina Brännström, but she's not a coward. Having the courage to engage in this debate with the records of the Moderates still indicates good courage; it has to be said. Katarina Brännström says that work environment work may not affect sick leave at workplaces. No, maybe not. The Agency's budget may not affect the number of inspectors. No, maybe not. The number of inspectors may not affect the deaths at work. No, maybe not. But the probability of that being the case is very great, and that is what governs my work and the work of the government and our priorities. We believe that work environment work can affect sick leave. We believe that the Agency's budget affects the number of inspectors, and we believe that the number of inspections and inspectors affects the deaths at work. That's why we're making big reinforcements. In its first budget, the government proposed major reinforcements to the work environment that were voted down in this Chamber in December 2014. That is why it took a little while for us to get started with the investments that we have wanted to make. As I said, I will return later with a reaction to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, but I can note that the Swedish National Audit Office is reviewing a period before the resource enhancements have had an effect. In principle, it takes a year for an employee inspector to be trained before work begins. I am therefore confident that the number of inspections will naturally increase. However, I would like to say – and here I give the interpeller and the debaters the right – that the issue of efficient operations and resource use and a relevant follow-up of the work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority is very important. I believe that more needs to be done here too. I do not feel fully satisfied in this regard, so I am giving the interpellier the right one. We will need to do further things here. Lotta Finstorp addresses the very important issue of stress-related ill health. She says that it should be a priority everywhere, and I very much agree with that – with all employers, not least in the public sector. Nowadays it is in any case a priority at the Swedish Work Environment Authority, because we finally have new regulations on organizational and social work environment, which is exactly what it is all about. This means that a new job has really started, and I am pleased to see how well these new regulations have been received at local level in the workplace. Both employers and workers' trade union representatives have started to work solidly on the new regulations and have started to use them, and this is very gratifying. As far as fatal accidents are concerned, only last week two men were killed on a power line — terrible! They died instantly. Of course, it is the employer who is responsible for the work environment, and a preliminary investigation is also ongoing due to these deaths. Nevertheless, I believe that, as the minister responsible, I should be held responsible for doing everything in my power to prevent the occurrence of fatal accidents. Finally, Erik Andersson, the government has set up an investigation to develop proposals for a new knowledge centre instead of the Work Life Institute. That investigation will come next year with its proposals.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-341	Madam President, I would like I note that during the time of the alliance government in power in 2006 – 2013, deaths decreased by 56%: from twelve to three deaths per billion working hours. Nevertheless, we were told by Ylva Johansson and other Social Democrats that it was terrible how terrible it was during that time. It was called death at work. But now it is unusually quiet from both trade unions and social democrats. Last parliamentary term demonstrations, campaigns and roll-calls were organised. The strange thing is that nothing has gotten better now, but oh how quiet it is! I believe that I and the Minister agree on one thing: every death is one too many, and we all have a responsibility to ensure that there are no more. However, fewer efforts are made by the Swedish Work Environment Authority, despite the fact that a record number of people work in the Swedish labour market. What's the minister doing about it? Before the election, the tone was very high, and great improvements were promised – everything would be so good. But it hasn't been, and that's why I've written my interpellation. All that happened in the last parliamentary term, the result we could show then, was actually better; now it is worse. I believe that the Government is also responsible for the Swedish Work Environment Authority doing a good job and doing the right things. Nevertheless, it is gratifying to hear that the Minister thinks it can be more effective. We had a debate earlier today when we talked about the Employment Service. It feels like two large authorities under the Ministry of Labour and Ylva Johansson actually work quite poorly. That is the responsibility of the Minister, and that is why I am raising these issues. We have to stick to the facts. I will never blame Ylva Johansson for what happens when it comes to the deaths, but if you go out and promise far and wide that you will arrange everything so that it gets better – new millions are going to fix everything – and that is not the way you actually have to agree to answer for the results. The Minister claims I'm brave to bring this up in view of the record we have. I don't think it's brave at all. I am not ashamed of what happened during the time of the alliance government. The results were good. We made more workplace visits, more inspections and introduced more bans and injunctions and other things that are not actually done today despite the increase in the budget. I am very proud of the work we did. We tried to modernise an authority that worked in an old way based on the time when we mostly had industries and similar workplaces. Today we know that it is stress and other causes that make people feel bad and sick leave work. My question remains. What does the Government do to achieve a more efficient work environment? What will come out of the government's rather detailed regulatory letter? We need to see better results. More inspections are needed, according to the Minister himself, but I have not heard any concern expressed that they have been reduced. It worries me.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-348	Madam President, I would like I want to continue to dwell on stress-related and psychosocial ill health. Not having too many employees is an important health factor. For example, research has shown that when employees experience personal difficulties, it is easier to move on from personal grief if there is a supportive climate in the workplace. Prevent, who works with work environment in collaboration between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, LO and PTK, has interviewed 2,100 managers and safety representatives in the 2016 report. It was a large response rate, but half of the respondents said that they did not have a good method for investigating and assessing the organisational and social work environment in the workplace. It says a lot about the need for advice and support. If someone at the workplace has broken the leg, it is easier to understand that it will take a few weeks before you can come back, but it is more difficult as an employer to deal with the one who is in pain of the soul. The smaller employers also do not have HR departments that perhaps municipalities and county councils and larger employers have, but they should handle it within existing staff. I'd like to ask you a question before my time up here in the speaker's office is up. It is about the social security inquiry, of which I was privileged to be a member. We also worked with occupational injury insurance and have some suggestions in the investigation. Among other things, we looked at Finland, which has a kind of bonus – Malus system. It is perhaps nothing for Sweden, but there is a lot in the investigation that one could produce because there are many question signs about this. When will the Riksdag receive the inquiry's proposal regarding the Minister's responsibility for preparation and decision?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-354	Madam President, I would like The role of the Swedish Work Environment Authority in the labour market can be compared to that of the police in the area of crime in society. I think there are few people who would think that reducing the number of crimes in society by reducing the funds allocated to the police and by reducing the number of police officers who can be out in the streets and squares and who can solve crimes. That's exactly what happened to the last government. Between 2007 and 2009, the Swedish Work Environment Authority lost 30 per cent of the funding. There were 300 fewer inspectors after that. Of course it will be more difficult to do your job then. The Swedish Work Environment Authority should actually be out more on unannounced visits, i.e. where the employer does not know that you are coming, because then there is a better chance that you can see the dangerous situations before something happens. It must be to work preventively, before someone gets hurt or a fatal accident occurs, which is the goal. But the resources have not been enough for that. The government is now expanding resources and has already increased the number of health and safety inspectors just to be able to come directly when something happens but also be able to come unannounced or when someone calls for you. This has a double effect, because it is both about the concrete workplaces that you can visit and where you can help to create a better working environment, but it is also about employers knowing all the time that they can visit and ensure that they have a good working environment. This is exactly the right direction for the government. I wonder what else to do if we did not actually increase the resources and the number of inspections. We also invest in welfare, and that is important, not least for all the women who work there who are now being burned out. It is also an area in which, unfortunately, the previous government cut a lot, and I think that is what we are seeing today's results. So we are working broadly in this area.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-358	Madam President, I would like The Government said that it was courageous of us to raise this issue. We're picking it up because it's getting worse. That is why we are debating this issue. More resources are being added, and there are fewer inspections. It doesn't make any sense, in my opinion. After all, our task as an opposition is to review the government's power. There's nothing weird about it. You'll only get better if we examine you. That is also the way to think, rather than thinking that it is courageous for us to raise this issue. When we look at where there are problems – and there is a big problem – we are worried about the governance of our agencies, and we are particularly concerned about the governance of the Swedish Work Environment Authority as it looks right now with the debate that we had about fewer inspections but more resources. We are concerned about how women in the public sector are becoming increasingly ill. That is why we want to make extra efforts; we want to invest more than the government wants. When it comes to women working in the public sector, it is fortunate that we got a bourgeois government, a Bildt government, which made sure that we could have more employers for these women working in the public sector. Otherwise, you would only have had one employer to choose from, and that is not good. It is much better to have more employers, and it usually also gets better in the workplaces that exist. The government said to set up a knowledge centre, but that's not really the same thing as an authority. If the Social Democrats think this issue is so important, is it not an authority to be set up?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-363	Madam President, I would like Hillevi Larsson has very well explained here the natural relationship between the number of inspectors and the number of inspections that are possible. Of course, it is not only about the number of inspectors, but also about their knowledgeability, and therefore they must be well trained before they can do their job. But of course there is a connection, and that means that the number of inspections will increase now that we have been able to hire more inspectors within the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Lotta Finstorp raises an important question about the connection between how many subordinates a manager or supervisor has and the opportunity to act in a good way with systematic work environment management. Lotta Finstorp highlights the experience of EU-OSHA, the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, and I think it is important to look at this. It is just like Lotta Finstorp says that those employers who may not have HR departments and large resources of course need advice and support in how to work, not least when dealing with health and safety problems, such as organizational and social work environment, which you may not have worked actively enough with before. Therefore, the Swedish Work Environment Authority is now making tremendous efforts with the new regulations also in supporting efforts to make it easier for the parties to work with them. Another important player is, for example, Prevent, as well as the other players owned by the parties, who are doing a very good job. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to say that there is one important point, after all, in what is raised in this debate. And these are the issues of increased efficiency and follow-up. As far as the Swedish National Audit Office is concerned, as I have said before, we will come back with a more formal response. But the Swedish National Audit Office says something like this: It is difficult to know what the major work environment problems are, how they change over time and how many people are affected because the statistics are not reliable. There is an uncertain link between reported and actual occupational injuries and difficulties in measuring self-perceived work environment. It may not be surprising that these difficulties exist, but it is quite clear that this needs to be addressed. These are issues on which the government has reason to come back and which we may also have reason to come back to in further debates.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate. This is an important debate. It is also an ongoing debate, because we all care about these issues. In a good working life it must be a good working environment. Otherwise, it won't work. I think it is good that the Minister says that the level of ambition has been increased. I am eagerly waiting for us to see the results of this. As the Minister says, one might ask: ‘ Is the Swedish Work Environment Authority doing the right thing? Is it effective? Are you out in the right places? Is the statistics correct? That's what I've been asking myself. What is a workplace accident? What is a work-related illness? The number of notifications may not be a good measure of how things stand out there either. But the fact remains. The number of work-related diseases increased in 2015, as did workplace accidents. It's just a single year. You shouldn't be pulling too much gear on it, but after all, we had a zero vision. What I think is serious is that there are many more people working – it's a record, and the Minister knows that too – and yet reduced the number of inspections and visits in 2015. I think that's serious. You can always argue that you are training new ones, but not all are new ones. There's a lot of people left. Then I think it's good that the Minister has read the Swedish National Audit Office's report – I have also read the report. We both know that there is criticism and that this needs to be addressed. It is hard enough for many on a work that has been around for a long time to switch to a more modern way of working. But it is good that we see the problems, and it is good that they are addressed and that we can have a serious debate on them, because that is important. Thank you for the debate.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-375	Madam President, I would like For the sake of fact, I would like to point out that it is this government that has introduced a zero vision of fatal accidents. However, I would also like to thank you for the debate. This is an important issue. We have reason to come back to it. Nevertheless, let me highlight an example where I think there is reason to make changes in the work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It's about how much you go on tips. So far you have hardly gone for tips at all. However, the Swedish National Audit Office's survey shows that a majority of inspectors would like to work more with tips. I believe that this is one way of dealing with a grey sector as well. Unfortunately, it often turns out that employers who have a poor working environment are the same as those who may not comply with other rules or who do not pay taxes. As a result, they distort competition, in addition to endangering employees. But, Madam President, these are, as I said, issues we will have to come back to later.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-377	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me partly whether I intend to work for the planned railway between Mölnlycke and Bollebygd to be built with conventional technology or high-speed technology, partly when it will start to be built and when I expect it to be finished.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-379	In the infrastructure bill recently submitted to the Riksdag, the Government has expressed its ambition to complete new high-speed trains so that Stockholm and Gothenburg and Malmö respectively are better connected with modern and sustainable communications. The development of new main roads should be done in a cost-effective manner and at a pace that the economy allows. The so-called action plan is now in place, where the Swedish Transport Administration is preparing a proposal for a new national plan for the period 2018 – 2029. The proposal is widely referred before a new national plan is established by the Government, provisionally in spring 2018. Measures on the railway between Gothenburg and Borås may be examined in the framework of this action plan. When it comes to the question of which technology to use, it is up to the Finnish Transport Administration to assess how it can be ensured that deployment takes place in a cost-effective and otherwise appropriate way.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-381	Madam President, I would like It is customary courtesy to start a speech after an interpellation response by thanking the Government for its reply. For a change, I'm not actually going to do that, because there's not much to thank for. The government is not answering my questions at all. She won't tell me what to build. She does not say when it will be built and not even if there is to be a new railway between Mölnlycke and Bollebygd. This is extremely remarkable. I cannot remember having received such an inconvenient answer to an interpellation on such an important issue in the past. The stretch Borås – Gothenburg is the third busiest commuting route in Sweden. At the same time, the need to connect the rail network to Landvetter airport is considerable, for both time and environmental reasons. The fact that air passengers from Gothenburg and Borås can take trains instead of a car or bus to the airport is an important environmental effort. At the same time, Härryda Municipality and Swedavia are planning a new large airport city around Landvetter Airport, which will create thousands of additional jobs. At present, the railway is on the Mölnlycke route – Bollebygd low standard, and the track is winding and slow. Building a new path on this route is the most important effort to reduce travel time between Gothenburg and Borås. In addition, you get a railway that can take air passengers from Gothenburg and Borås to the airport, but also air passengers from Mölnlycke and Bollebygd, which would get stops if you build a conventional railway. The Allians government decided in 2013 to build a new railway between Mölnlycke and Bollebygd, via Landvetter Airport, with a planned construction start in 2020. Money is provided for the construction of a conventional railway with the possibility of high-speed train services of the Arlanda Express model. The municipalities between Gothenburg and Borås and the Västra Götaland region have in great political consensus said that regional traffic between Gothenburg and Borås, via Landvetter, is one of the region's most important infrastructure initiatives. When Anna Johansson herself was a municipal councillor in Gothenburg, she often stressed the importance of this railway. As responsible minister, she is now failing West Sweden by stopping or greatly delaying the construction of the Mölnlycke – Bollebygd stage already decided by the alliance government. Madam President, I would like In its reply, the Government tries to conceal the considerable delay in the already decided Mölnlycke route – Bollebygd that the government's stop causes. The truth is that the planned construction start in the landscape is 2020. Now it is said that the route will be tested within the framework of a new plan for the period 2018 – 2029. It is therefore not even certain that the route will be included in the new plan. And if it does, it'll hardly be a construction start in 2020. Madam President, I would like The Government's answer slips away from all questions by answering: The Finnish Transport Agency must assess what is to be built and what technology is to be used. At the same time, she and the government say that they have an ambition to build high-speed roads but without putting a single crown into this.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-389	Madam President, I would like The instructions given by the Government to the Finnish Transport Administration follow the practice used when giving the Finnish Transport Administration a directive to prepare different objects for construction starts. So decisions are made on the construction starts that the Finnish Transport Administration will have to prepare for year one to three and year four to six. There is such work going on every year. I think Jan Ericson is aware of that. In the same way, of course, the objects in the current national plan, 2014 – 2025, will be handled. This means that there are currently no directives on which objects are to be built, as this is later in the period. But it will be taken up when it comes to it. I really think that the interpretation is about this: In July 2014, the decision from 2013 became a little out of date because the then alliance government gave Sweden the construction, as it was then called, a clear mission to prepare for the expansion of high-speed roads in Sweden. It was also clearly mentioned that the Bollebygd section – Mölnlycke was part of the planned high-speed tracks, the new main tracks. This has also made it clear that a high-speed rail system is envisaged. It is a very good ambition, but it is clear that it is more expensive to build with that technology than to build with more conventional technology. To build with a more expensive technology on a distance of two kilometres between Bollebygd and Mölnlycke without having any idea what the whole stretch Borås – Gothenburg looks like would of course be very unwise. This does not mean that the government does not see that we need to take action on the route Borås – Gothenburg, but it only means that we need to look at the whole route, because it is one of Sweden's strongest commuting routes. But we also need to put it in its context when we see the possibility of building new main roads connecting our big cities with each other and also connecting several towns along the way. Then, of course, you need to see at what pace to build this, in what order to build and with what technology. There it is obvious that it is the Swedish Transport Administration that has the technical competence to determine which technology is to be used on different shares. I still believe that if you do not realise that this is to be part of new high-speed rail lines, you should not be built with a technology that allows such fast traffic on that route either.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-395	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised when the Government says that this is being raised when it comes to this. The planning's going on right now. The Swedish Transport Administration is in a meeting with the municipalities of Västra Götaland today and is discussing this course, and the Government says that it will return to details when it becomes relevant. After all, it is a huge destruction of capital to sit and count on something that we may not even be building. Then there is a misconception that the Alliance took a decision to build high-speed trains. What we said before the election was that we would look at whether this was a good variant for the future. We didn't give Trafikverket any instructions to build high-speed trains. It's a misconception. The question of whether we should have high-speed trains or ordinary high-speed trains is that it is our duty as politicians to ensure that we get the maximum benefit for every tax chandelier. That is why we Moderates oppose the government's thoughts on high-speed trains, because about 50 cents of each invested crown will be lost if these unfunded national train projects become a reality. In addition, only a few privileged people get station stops when the requirement for train speed is to be met. With high-speed trains, for example, neither Mölnlycke nor Bollebygd will have a station, despite the fact that the municipalities concerned and the region agree that it is the regional commuting that is by far the most important thing with a new railway and not a high-speed train to Stockholm. I have calculated a little on the time gain with a high-speed train compared to normal high-speed trains. If you travel the entire route from Gothenburg to Borås, the time difference will be five minutes. The time difference does not justify an investment in extremely expensive high-speed trains. Madam President, I would like We cannot afford to wait more than 20 years on a new railway, which could be the consequence of the government's fuzzy, unfunded proposals. They say that they have an ambition to build high-speed trains, but they do not have a single crown set aside for it in the budget. The moderator as in the long term is that the railway between Borås and Gothenburg should be built for either 200 kilometres per hour or 250 kilometres per hour, i.e. similar to Arlanda Express. In both cases, the investment cost would be much lower as it would then be possible to use less costly construction technologies. The speed will be good, the environmental benefit high and the cost low. In addition, we get more stations, which benefits the work commuting. In the Moderates' proposal, we show that the extension of the Gothenburg section – Borås is a high priority. We mention it in particular, and with our proposal, a new, modern railway between West Sweden's two largest cities can be completed already during the next planning period, 2018 – 2029, unlike the government, where a completed high-speed railway would probably take well over 20 years. The Moderates say 'yes' to a modern, functioning and fast rail in the near future and 'no' to an almost twice as expensive high-speed railway at some point in the future. Our proposal enables us to put the shovel in the ground faster, and we can explore new possibilities for tracks as we proceed from Borås to Ulricehamn and Jönköping. The Government's proposal stops an already decided railway construction that is of crucial importance to West Sweden. The government and her government are failing Western Sweden, and I find that tragic. I would therefore like to put another straight question to the Government: Can the Government promise that there is a new railway in the plan between Mölnlycke and Bollebygd via Landvetter Airport in the national plan for 2018 – 2029 and that this construction is fully funded?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-404	Madam President, I would like I can only note that in the current national plan decided by the then alliance government in 2014 there is not a railway between Borås and Gothenburg funded. Part of the route, between Mölnlycke and Bollebygd, is financed in national level. The current government has so far made no changes to the current national plan, but we will of course take a position on which objects we should prioritise in the national plan that we decide on 2018. I have been very clear in the past in this House, elsewhere and in other contexts that we will not break out parts of the national plan, nor make promises or say that we should not do anything, but that work should be allowed to continue. Then I note that Jan Ericson tries to mix the cards away when he says that the then government did not give the Swedish Transport Administration a mandate to investigate a high-speed path between Borås and Gothenburg. That is, of course, absolutely true. However, the then government gave an investigation assignment to a negotiator in what was called the construction of Sweden with the very clear and clearly stated purpose of preparing for the construction of high-speed roads in Sweden. Part of it was about the route Borås – Gothenburg and then Borås – Jönköping. This means that the distance that we are now talking about here, Bollebygd– Mölnlycke, in the current national plan is supposed to be built with high-speed technology, and it would be socio-economic madness to build the short distance without realizing that one should complete the entire route eventually. The government will come back to this. We haven't funded any individual items yet. On the other hand, we have substantially increased the framework of the forthcoming national plan compared to the current framework, i.e. we go from 52 2 billion to 622 1⁄2 billion for the next planning period. It is clear that in this there will be new objects and an increased ambition to build infrastructure that makes Sweden stronger in all parts of our country. High-speed lanes are part of it, but there are also many other pressing objects around the country that we need to take into account when we eventually make decisions on national planes. I think Jan Ericson is well aware of that. We haven't stopped anything. The objects in the national plan prepare the Swedish Transport Administration and investigate exactly as the Swedish Transport Administration will do, but there is not yet a decision on the construction start for the objects that lie a little further in time. We work with that exactly as you usually work with that kind of question, so there will be information about it. I can assure Jan Ericson.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-411	Madam President, I would like I am increasingly confused about what the Government really thinks and says on this issue, especially what she says to the Swedish Transport Administration. That's not the picture we get. The Government's response shows a complete lack of control of the Finnish Transport Agency's work, and this is confirmed by the reports we receive from Western Swedish municipal representatives when they have met the Swedish Transport Administration. The Finnish Transport Administration doesn't know what to build today. You don't know what money you're getting, and you don't get any further instructions from the government. You don't know whether to continue or cancel existing construction plans. You don't know if you're planning for a regular railway or for high-speed trains. You don't know when to start building or what technology to use. You don't even know if there's any funding. Pending notification, it is true that Trafikverket continues the existing planning work for the railway Mölnlycke – Bollebygd but without knowing whether it will be carried out at all. At the same time, the government's responsible minister says that the same railway route will be tested within the framework of the forthcoming plan. But the fact that you try something is not a guarantee that it will even be something, and in that case the Swedish Transport Administration has planned it all for nothing. The government has created total chaos in infrastructure policy by not talking about what you actually want but just talking about that you have ambitions and that you should try things in the future instead of putting the shovel in the ground according to the plan that already exists. And there's money in the pitch that's enough for a regular railroad for high-speed trains between Mölnlycke and Bollebygd. Just get started and build. Madam President, I would like I note that Minister Anna Johansson and her government are failing West Sweden. Putting more money aside will not help if you stop Western Sweden's perhaps most important railway project. With a continued alliance government, we had put the spade in the ground by 2020 and built the Mölnlycke railway – Bollebygd and connected it to Landvetter airport. It would have benefited regional commuting and reduced car and bus traffic, which would have been good for the environment. With today's government, there'll be no railroad in the near future... maybe none at all. There will continue to be long commuting times by car and bus to the airport, and the new airport city will be without rail connection. The government has created total chaos in railway construction and has been guilty of a gigantic betrayal of West Sweden.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-418	Madam President, I would like Fortunately, I believe that most people who listen to the debate or follow these issues have knowledge of, or find out, how infrastructure planning is done. Funds are set aside in national plans, which are decided by the government every four years. This was done by the then government in 2014. If there is any confusion about what is in the current plan, it is hardly the fault of this government. In that case, it is a question of what directives the then government gave to the Finnish Transport Administration based on the national plan it had decided on. We will decide on a new national plan covering the years 2018–2029 in 2018. It will indicate which new investment items this government intends to prioritise in the coming years. It is to danger with gross untruth to claim that the current government stops any roll-out plans in rail. I am pleased that the current government has higher ambitions and sees the need to invest in rail in Sweden, unlike the previous government where the Finance Minister actually claimed that Sweden has overinvested in rail for a long time. Now there is a government that sees the needs of the rail system, which has greatly increased the funds for maintenance, which in the infrastructure bill submitted to Parliament has increased the funds for railway maintenance in the next planning period and increased the funds for new investments. It is absolutely necessary for a Sweden that holds together and for jobs and development in our country. I think Jan Ericson is out in the wind on this issue.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-424	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to make it easier for people who do not speak any of the Scandinavian languages to get a job in shipping and whether I intend to take steps to change the rules on language requirements for Swedish-flagged passenger ships. Within the Swedish merchant fleet, there are today many employed people who do not speak any Scandinavian language. For example, Filipino sailors are often employed on board Swedish merchant ships. The government has taken several measures to strengthen the Swedish shipping industry and to expand the Swedish flagged merchant fleet. Swedish flagged ships are of great importance for Swedish seafarers' opportunities to get a job, for access to internships for students and for the competence of the maritime cluster, regardless of the language they speak. The introduction of a tonnage tax system is an example of such a measure that will strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish shipping industry, increase the number of Swedish flagged ships and eventually create jobs. As Boriana Åberg points out, there are certain language requirements for seafarers on passenger ships. This stems from international regulation and EU legislation and has a purely maritime safety objective: to ensure that personnel on board passenger ships can communicate with passengers. Staff shall therefore be able to communicate in the language or languages spoken by a majority of the nationalities of passengers on board and in English. I believe that this requirement is perfectly reasonable in order to ensure that staff on board can communicate with passengers in the event of an emergency. In Swedish legislation, this EU and international requirements have been clarified by the staff's ability to master English and, if the ship operates in Scandinavia, a Scandinavian language. If the language requirement applies to the entire crew or only parts of it have also been noticed in the request submitted to the Government by the Swedish Maritime Association. This question is being prepared for the moment.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-432	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is an answer that partly sails away from the subject. That's why I'm here to clarify. The issue is a simple change to the Swedish Ship Safety Regulation Chapter 4. 31 §. It requires all personnel serving on passenger and ro-ro passenger ships to do so in English and, if the ship operates in Scandinavia, in Scandinavian language. That addition to a Scandinavian language means that Swedish shipping companies are no longer relevant. This implies a special requirement and an over-interpretation of EU rules. As is often the case, Swedish legislation is more far-reaching than necessary and so often has negative consequences for the sector concerned. According to the EU directive on which the current paragraph is based, the crew should be able to speak the language or languages spoken by the majority of passengers travelling on a particular route. With today's travel patterns, it is far from certain that it is Scandinavian that the majority of passengers on a ship speak. Shipowners testify that the majority of passengers on the ferries between Sweden and Germany are Germans, between Sweden and Poland Poles, between Sweden and Estonia Estonians and Russians and so on. It is clear that the law's requirement for all personnel to speak both English and a Scandinavian language is out of time and has a negative impact on the competitiveness of Swedish shipping companies. In Denmark, a pioneer country in shipping, the authorities have interpreted the Language Directive differently. There, the language requirement only concerns the personnel who guide passengers during evacuation. There are many professions represented on a ship, and many crew members do not come into contact with passengers at all. Why should we demand that the chef and other kitchen staff speak Scandinavian in addition to English? And is it certain that Scandinavian passengers prefer Scandinavian to English? The Minister can certainly recall countless conferences in Scandinavia where Danes have been asked by Swedish participants to preferably speak English for them to understand them.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-436	Madam President, I would like I'd like to try to sort this out a little bit. Firstly, the origin of this regulation is the STCW Convention, an international convention dealing with the level of training of seafarers. It states that, in the event of an emergency, any crew in contact with passengers shall be able to communicate in the language or languages spoken by a majority of the nationalities of passengers present on the specific route and have an elementary English vocabulary. This International Convention has since been transposed into EU law by Directive 2008/106/EC, which deals with minimum training requirements for seafarers. Unfortunately, there have been maritime accidents where rescue work has been made more difficult by the confusion of language between crew members and passengers and by language problems within crew members. It is documented that it has been able to have quite disastrous consequences. As to which parts of the staff should have this language competence, a preparatory work is ongoing within the Government Office, as I said in my reply. One should look at the benefits of maintaining the language requirement for personnel on board passenger ships as it is today. One should also look at the proposal from Swedish Maritime Transport: that the language requirement should only cover the personnel who assist passengers in an emergency. Then one can probably not really make it as easy as to question why the chef should know English or Scandinavian. In an emergency situation, there are probably more categories of staff involved than those working directly with passengers under normal circumstances. If so, look at the categories of staff that would be covered. The question also needs to be asked what positive effects and possible negative consequences such a change could have. That question is currently being looked at in the Government Office. As regards the requirement to be able to speak at least some Scandinavian language, I will also say that Sweden has a somewhat broader interpretation in that we are talking about a Scandinavian language, while our neighbouring countries are demanding that that particular language be spoken by on-board staff. One might say that we have a somewhat narrower requirement in that it applies to the entire crew, but on the other hand a somewhat more transparent requirement with the wording of a Scandinavian language. Although passenger composition may obviously vary, it can be assumed that at least a significant proportion of passengers on passenger ships operating in Scandinavian countries have a Scandinavian language as their mother tongue.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-440	Madam President, I would like The government and I fully agree that security should come first. I also agree that it is international rules that are implemented in Swedish legislation. But here you choose to go one step further. The STCW Convention, to which the Government refers, talks about those in the crew who come into contact with passengers. It's not about the language spoken in that country. There is talk of a common language for everyone in the crew, and in most cases it is English. In an emergency, not everyone in the crew is throwing their way to help passengers. There are very strict rules for who does what. In the event of an emergency, there are staff with clearly defined tasks, documented training and knowledge responsible for evacuation and other assistance for passengers in the emergency. There is a so-called safety management on each ship where it is clear what tasks each of the crew has in an emergency. This safety management is regularly trained. It is also controlled by the authorities. We can compare it to fire drills at the Government Office. Everyone gets to run out when the fire alarm sounds. I hope that the request mentioned by the Minister will be dealt with in a positive way. The idea behind this request is not to jeopardise security in any way but to change a rule that is no longer relevant and which prevents, among other things, the recruitment of personnel with immigrant backgrounds who have not learned Swedish to a sufficient extent but who master English. I think the Minister agrees with me that Sweden needs all the jobs. It is particularly important that people with foreign background quickly enter the labour market and become self-sufficient. Maritime transport offers such jobs. Chefs, catering staff and other service personnel are examples of such jobs where a perfect Swedish or Scandinavian is not required for that matter. The latter category also does not require specific professional competence. It is a very grateful industry when it comes to channeling in all these people who have come here and who have to make a living. It would be very important to change Section 31.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-446	Madam President, I would like It sounds like we are very much in agreement on this issue. We must ensure that safety comes first. The staff to assist passengers in the event of an emergency shall master English but also a language that the majority of passengers on board understand. What I was trying to say was that it is not certain that it is only those in the crew who have direct contact with passengers under normal circumstances who have direct contact with passengers in an emergency. Then, as the honourable Member describes, an emergency organisation enters where different crew members have different functions. It is therefore necessary to ensure that those who are subject to a requirement to have contact with passengers in such a situation are also subject to the same language requirements. It is in some way a minimum requirement to ensure that everyone is given the information they need in order to be able to carry out, for example, an evacuation in a safe manner. Whether it should continue to apply to all personnel on passenger ships is an issue that is currently being looked at at at the Government Office. There you need to put the possible benefits against possible disadvantages. It is reasonable that when you get suggestions or ideas, you should always look at the negative consequences. I hope that we will shortly receive an answer there, and we will hear the views of various stakeholders in this context.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-450	Madam President, I would like I don't doubt for a second that the Swedish Maritime Association only has the best thing for its members, all passengers and everyone else. No one wants to be exposed to safety risks. Their request expresses what is also in the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism a year and a half ago on maritime transport and its competitiveness. There it was expressed that the kind of special rules that the authorities have created with good intentions sometimes lead to wrong results. I see the Minister's openness to look at this issue as a positive sign that this rule will hopefully change and that it will hopefully happen quickly. It is unreasonable that Sweden has special rules for an industry as competitive as the shipping industry. What could be better for a minister with his roots in Gothenburg than to do something to make things easier for this industry?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-452	Madam President, I would like It is also a question of seeing what possible negative consequences a rule change could have. At the moment, there is quite a lot of work going on to review the maritime regulatory framework with a view to improving and simplifying it. It is about making it more effective and easier to follow and understand and to remove overlapping regulations. There is a lot of work going on. This can be seen as part of that job to simply achieve a competitive but also safe and secure shipping that offers good employment conditions, contributes to clean seas, more jobs and growth but also other values in society. I feel quite confident that further work will show whether the change would be appropriate and will be implemented. If there are parts in this that Swedish Shipping may not have thought about, we will probably also discover it. The important thing is that we constantly have the ambition to have a regulatory framework that is appropriate and does not override safety.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-455	Madam President, I would like Saila Quicklund has asked me whether, in the light of the calls for referendums made in Norrbotten and Jämtland counties, I still conclude that there is a great deal of support for the proposed regions in general and Great Northern Ireland in particular. I would like to start by pointing out that the deadline for replying to comments on the report of the Interpartition Committee expired on 6 October and that the replies are currently being prepared within the Government Office. I have also invited cross-block talks on this issue to discuss the further process. The government will therefore come back to this issue later. What can now be said, however, is the following. A very large proportion of the consultation bodies see the need for a change in the classification of counties and county councils, although the views on precisely the proposed divisions and the date of entry into force differ to some extent.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-459	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Civil Affairs, for your answer. We have deb ted the regional issue on a number of occasions. It has been in the P1 Morning, at Question Time here and also in the interpellation debates. I have at all times asked the same question. What is the motive for regional reform? What are the pros and cons? Why have impact assessments not been presented? Does the bottom-up approach have meaning or not for the government? How will health care be better if you, like me, live in Jämtland if you merge four county councils into a region with large deficits and the government does not add more money? Is an increased administration that goes with the large regions desirable for the government? Is that so? It often follows major transformations. Is Stornorrland the best solution when the region covers as much as 52% of the country's surface? Does the government not take into account the great distances and what this means for us who live and work in the region? The questions are many, and of course we find a great frustration that we do not get answers to the questions that I and others ask over and over again. I hope that the Minister for Civil Affairs will finally understand and take people's issues seriously and answer my questions. I am elected to the county of Jämtland, and I have many county dwellers behind me today when I debate in this House. I hope and believe that the Minister for Civil Affairs knows how my county has acted on the regional issue. A popular initiative for a referendum on Stornorrland started earlier this autumn. More than 10 000 people had to sign the lists so that this could be dealt with in Region Jämtland Härjedalen. I wish the Minister of Civil Affairs had been able to see and follow how this absolutely fantastic work was going on. People have gathered and worked with inspiration and joy for something that they think is important and urgent. Young, old, urban and rural people have all helped to show that there is too much acceptance, but now the government had crossed the line. To carry out such a great reform that affects our county dwellers on such a large scale without people having to think about a prime force and a courage in our county. After three weeks, many of us had managed to collect 20,740 signatures. I am proud and happy about the fantastic efforts that everyone has made in my county and in other counties that also make these efforts. It hurts me – really bad – when the government chooses not to heed people's will. Nor do I feel much enthusiasm or joy over an unconfirmed reputation that says that Jämtland County should be exempted from a Great Northern Land. In this case, it is also a short respite, since the intention is that all counties should be organised into a regional reform in 2023. I also know that in at least seven counties they work in the same way as we do in Jämtland and have the same resistance to regional reform as Jämtland County has. No one should have to be forced into a region if there is no support for it. My questions are: Can the Minister of Civil Affairs confirm the reputation that the media presented yesterday and who says that Jämtland County should be exempted from any regional reform? What's the motive for that? What does the Minister of Civil Affairs say to the seven other counties that are now also rising up in the same strong way as the county of Jämtland? Should they be forced into regional reform against their will? What is the difference between Jämtland County and other counties?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-469	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Quicklund, for the interpellation and for the discussion that we have had for several months now! I appreciate the commitment and the fact that we have an open dialogue on these important issues that are about how we ensure equivalence in Swedish welfare throughout our country and how we keep our society together. Madam President, I would like Regional inequality in our country is splitting up Sweden. We have a very serious development in which the regional divides have been allowed to grow in recent decades and where we have serious effects of urbanisation that affect the conditions for municipal and county council activities, not least welfare. We also have different conditions for regional development and growth. We see in several studies that labour market regions have been enlarged in parts of the country, while other parts of the country do not have the same integration in terms of labour market regions. It creates worse conditions for growth and development and high employment. Madam President, I would like There are two approaches to this. We can accept that we can see urbanisation as a norm and tolerate inequalities in welfare and that some parts of the country that have been allowed to form regions around the big cities are withdrawing while other parts of the country have completely different conditions. We can only note the fact that more than half of Sweden's population lives in the metropolitan regions, which have had to implement regional reform. This happened in Stockholm County in the 60s and in Skåne and Västra Götaland in the 90s. Then we have the rest of the population, the remaining half, which is divided into 18 different smaller county councils. It is clear that we can only note this and accept a development where Sweden splits apart, or we can decide to take action. Madam President, I would like The idea of regional reform is not a general solution to all the challenges we face. But it is a way of dealing with how we can work with equivalence in healthcare, in public transport and in regional development. The reform will not be implemented unless there is support in the Swedish Parliament. We have exactly the order that we have had in other legislative matters: we have a referral, we take in the views and now we have talks with the bourgeois parties and with the Left Party. If there is no support for the reform, it will not be enforced. We have invited all bourgeois parties and the Left Party to talks precisely to see if we can find common solutions that are about reducing the regional divide and ensuring equivalence in health care. Although I appreciate Mrs Quicklund's commitment to this issue and think it is good that we are conducting these debates, I think it is important that those who oppose regional reform now present an alternative model. How are we going to meet the challenges of healthcare in Jämtland County? How should we keep a Sweden that slides apart? How are we going to defend the equivalence of welfare? What do we do when we see that the large strong regions have much better opportunities to work with growth and development and also take a larger share of the resources available for this? What is the moderate alternative? I'm open to discussing. I cannot say with 100% certainty: this is the general solution! We don't know that. But we can only find the right solutions if we have a dialogue in which the options are also presented to the citizens. Regardless of what we think on this issue, both I and Saila Quicklund owe the citizens of Jämtland the answer to the question: How should we ensure equal development and welfare throughout Sweden and not only in the big cities?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-475	Madam President, I would like The proposal for better and more equal health care for Jämtlandsmodaterna – and I emphasise that it is Jämtlandsmodaternas – is to nationalise specialist health care. The Minister for Civil Affairs answers that a very large part of the consultation bodies see a need for a changed county and county council division. How big? I say. Is that the voice of the people? We have seven peoples' initiatives and many strong views against regional reform in the country. Does the Minister not take this into account? Madam President, I would like Now I need an answer. Again, why is the government in such a hurry to implement a reform that it cannot take time to wait for the referendum initiatives going on in the country? We must never forget that we represent our constituents, and that is their case. Elitpolitiker projekt, the proposal has been called many times. I feel a frustration, or I'm rather dismayed, when I hear this word. What does the Secretary of State feel about this? Is this how the government should continue to work? Should the party go before the will of the people? Does the government think that people want politics to work like this? In Norrland we have many municipalities and county councils that are governed by the Social Democrats, i.e. where the Social Democrats are in the majority. Of course, it coloures the referral to the Division Committee from these areas when we know that the Social Democrats are one-sided for regional reform. The reason for the reform is also recently presented: Five out of six regions receive red-green governance. That is how we ensure the future of these parties. The source of this is Today's Society, and the calculation is based on the 2014 elections. You can have different views on matters of substance. It can be healthy, and that's how democracy works. However, democracy means that people should have influence, be listened to and be involved in decisions. The government is not moving in this direction. If you do not want to recognise or even oppose people's opportunities to be listened to, as in this example where referendums are not expected in the country, I feel a great deal of concern about how the government works in terms of democracy. I have a question for the Minister. The Minister for Civil Affairs replies that the views on precisely the proposed divisions and the date of entry into force differ to some extent. To some extent? With the strong reactions we are seeing in the country towards regional reform, I wish the Minister more precisely than that. I would like the Minister to develop this further.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-482	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund! It is the first time in this House that I debate the regional issue and the opponent of regional reform presents an alternative. In fact, this has not happened so far in this debate, so I really want to thank you. Nationalisation of advanced health care is the proposal of the Moderates in Jämtland County. I respect that. That is exactly how we must present the options to the citizens. I have many objections to nationalization. As the responsible minister for municipal and county councils issues, I assume that the municipal self-government and the decentralised welfare model have served Sweden well. However, unlike the primary municipalities, we have not created the structural changes in the county council sector that are needed to meet the challenges that we have in healthcare that are becoming increasingly advanced. Then one solution can be to say that when the decentralised welfare model does not work in healthcare, you should nationalise the healthcare system and move the decisions to Stockholm. I respect that. But then a lot of the arguments that are highlighted in the debate on regionalisation fall. The fact that decisions are taken further away from people has been used as an argument against regionalisation. Now the decisions are to be made in Stockholm instead. Are we sure that nationalised healthcare with the decision-making power in Stockholm takes advantage of the interests of the citizens of Jämtland County in the best possible way? We can't be sure of that. But it is very good that we can now perhaps get a real debate on what the alternatives are. In the debate it has sounded in recent months from some moderate debaters as if we can continue with the current county council division. But we have knowledge. We know that the structures that we have in healthcare today are not appropriate if we are to cope with increasingly difficult challenges in terms of both advanced and primary healthcare. When it comes to this process, I can reassure Saila Quicklund. The government will do nothing if we do not have support in the Swedish Parliament. That is why we are also talking to Saila Quicklund's party. We want broad conversations. We've invited the Moderates to a conversation. We've put all the questions on the table. We are working to compile the referrals so that we can have a clear and clear picture of how the different referral bodies stand. There, of course, we are also open to discussing alternative ways of looking at these challenges. The government will not push through a process, but it is the parliament that has the question on its table whether there should be a change in the administrative division in our country. But the questions remain, Madam President. Is it okay, is it good, is it appropriate that the state has an organisation where each authority has its unique regional division? Is it appropriate that it is only the county boards that follow the county division and the other state authorities, which are to be coordinated by the county boards and which are to anchor the state activities locally and regionally, have a completely different division from that of the county administrative board? Is it an effective state? Is it a state that has a regional base? Do we have structures in place that hold our country together, or is it not the case that we need to take action and bring about change? The changes can certainly be different, and there may also be different paths. Now we have a proposal: National health care instead and move the decisions to Stockholm. I welcome that debate. It's great that we can have that discussion. But I believe that the decentralised welfare model has served Sweden well and that it is good to continue with that model.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-493	Madam President, I would like I would like to further clarify that it is the Jämtlandsmodaterna who have the view that we want to examine the conditions for the nationalisation of specialist care. I note that I still have no answers to the questions I want answers to and have asked here today about why the Minister does not want to listen to the citizens out there. What is the urgency for this reform? Why can't a whale pass first? I can also say that there is no good reason for regional reform. There is no impact assessment. The citizens' dialogue and the bottom-up approach are lacking. Understanding the long distances and what this means for us who live in the north is lacking. The support from the county administrative boards, i.e. the government's extended arm, is lacking. There is no support from industry. The understanding that the best care in Sweden does not exist in our major regions is lacking. The understanding that there is no link between regional population and growth rate is lacking. I am proud of Mr Oderatian's position on the regional issue, where the bottom-up perspective is central. It will be a no if you are not allowed to speak on this issue as a citizen. I would also like to call on all counties that are opposed to regional reform to continue to show their opinion. Nothing is clear until the decision has been taken here in Parliament, and I hope that the initiatives which have now started continue the work for a referendum. Instead of drawing new maps against people's will, I think that we should focus on getting a functioning welfare with a focus on healthcare, service and regional development so that our citizens get the currency for their tax money. My final call today is for no county to be forced into a region against its will. With those words, Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for Civil Affairs for the debate.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-500	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mrs Quicklund for this debate and for also providing information on how the Moderates in Jämtland see the alternative. As I said, it is the first time that we have had such a discussion in this House, and I welcome that. I would also like to emphasise that I welcome the fact that Mrs Quicklund is talking about the bottom-up approach. During the previous term of office, the Moderates and the former government stopped the decentralisation of regional development responsibilities. Although there was a desire from Norrbotten, Västmanland and Västernorrland to decentralise regional development responsibility, the government did not agree to this application. This government did the opposite and presented a bill that is now decided by the Swedish parliament and which means that we move the regional development issues from the state to the regions, to the county councils, and regionalize Sweden. We are open to continuing the process of decentralisation. There is an ideological and principled difference in politics: those who represent a decentralised welfare model with strong municipal self-government, municipal tax law and the county councils' ability to deal with regional issues and those who want to see decentralisation and nationalisation. It is a debate that is needed in Sweden, and I believe that this debate will allow us to begin to approach solutions to the challenges that we face with growing regional gaps and a healthcare system that definitely needs a clearer perspective of equivalence. I thank you for this debate and look forward to continued dialogue, regardless of how things go on in the region, on health care and regional development and communications in Jämtland.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-505	Madam President, I would like Jenny Petersson has asked me if I believe that Sweden should work to relocate EMA to Sweden and if I am then prepared to take responsibility to ensure the best possible starting point for Sweden. Jenny Petersson has also asked what initiatives I am prepared to take to create the necessary alliances on this issue. As I have previously replied to Jenny Petersson, I see several major advantages in Sweden becoming a host country for an EU agency such as EMA, not least in the life science field. The Swedish state has for many years made major strategic investments in life science, both in terms of medical research, research infrastructure and in processes for collaboration and coordination between different sectors for increased synergy. If the EMA were located here, it could increase the conditions for other investments and investments in life science and foreign business start-ups to be located in Sweden, and cooperation between industry and academia would benefit. This is a great opportunity for Sweden. The relocation of EMA is also a complex and knowledge-intensive activity. The relocation needs to be possible with the maintenance of full activity. In order to reduce risks to industry, healthcare and patients, the Agency needs to be located in one of the countries with the most experience of cooperation in this area. My assessment is that Sweden has the experience required for a responsible transfer. The Medical Products Agency is one of the most engaged authorities within EMA. In 2015, the Swedish Medical Products Agency was responsible for implementing 25 pharmaceutical authorisations – more than any other equivalent authority, regardless of the size of the country. However, before a campaign can be launched, the consequences must be carefully analysed. This also includes that the government has ensured that there is funding for advocacy work. If a Swedish campaign is to be run, it must be run under good conditions and, as Jenny Petersson requests, with the best possible starting point. With regard to the possibility of necessary alliances, if a campaign is to be run, there are probably great advantages in doing so with common forces. If a campaign is to be launched, the usual anchoring will of course take place in the Riksdag. I would also like to emphasise once again that there is still no formal withdrawal notification from the United Kingdom.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-512	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Wikström for his reply. As he says in his reply, on several occasions I have asked for the government's strategy, work or possible alliances for the relocation of the European Medicines Agency, the EMA, which is currently in London. For those who are not familiar with the subject, the EMA is an EU authority, and as the UK voted in favour of Brexit, a withdrawal will take place, even if they have not formally applied for an exit from the EU. It's important to be on your toes, or you'll be overcrowded. I miss that the government is on its toes and shows interest in getting EMA to Sweden. Sweden has played a large part in many of the pharmaceutical authorisations within the EU that the EMA has done together with the national pharmaceutical authorities, just as Gabriel Wikström says. EMA has had and already has a central role for the Swedish healthcare and life science sector. But now we need to take the next step. Gabriel Wikström and I agree on the great benefits for Sweden if we were to become host country for the European EMA, not least for the life science area mentioned. The Swedish state, whether it was under the alliance government or the current government, has made investments and strategic investments within life science. This applies to medical research, research infrastructure and inter-sectoral collaboration and coordination processes to increase the synergy effect. If we were to get EMA here, chances would increase to get a lot more in the field. There would be more business start-ups, and new collaborations between industry and academia would benefit. This would be a huge opportunity for Sweden. We agree on that. However, my question is still whether I can get a clear answer. Time's running out. The time for analysis is over. We have to act. This is because other EU countries are working to relocate EMA to their countries. Can I get a clear message from Gabriel Wikström about the Government's view that Sweden should work for EMA to be relocated here? If the answer is yes, I wonder what initiatives the government will take to make Sweden host the EMA.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-520	Madam President, I would like It is not every day that a country leaves the European Union. Nor do we know what day it will be. This is a very special situation. A lot of institutions are located in the different Member States. And one of the most interesting is actually EMA, which is today in Britain. As early as 1992, Sweden applied for the possibility of getting that authority to Sweden. It would have been good then. But it would also be good to be on the second chance. It is important to be prepared now that the UK will leave the EU. Because they will. There are no indications of anything else. The future location of the EMA will be determined through central negotiations between Member States. And many Member States are in the starting blocks. Many want the agency, which includes 900 employees, has 4,500 experts and academics attached to them and has a budget of nearly SEK 4 billion. It's not small potatoes. What are the advantages for Sweden when it comes to receiving EMA? Among other things, the Swedish Medical Products Agency has a good reputation abroad. The MPA is mostly engaged for the scientific investigations carried out within the framework of EMA. It is also an advantage that Sweden already has an EU authority, the CDC. Several of the countries that have shown an interest in EMA have other EU authorities, but also believe that Sweden's advantage with the CDC is particularly great. Sweden is already conducting many clinical trials for EMA. It will hopefully be an exciting path. The fact that Sweden and some of our regions are more suitable than others is beyond doubt. I want to make it clear from the beginning that I am from Gothenburg. I am proud that Gothenburg has a pharmaceutical cluster with Astra Zeneca as one of three major international research hubs in Gothenburg and Mölndal. Gothenburg has the broad competence and experience, at national and international level, of being responsible for infrastructure for pharmaceutical development. One big advantage is that Gothenburg has Sweden's national centre for clinical research and one of Astra Zeneca's largest global R & D centres. It is easy to get to Gothenburg. There are benefits to being able to create a labour market for graduates in the life science sector, where you can switch jobs with each other. We're glad we have Astra Zeneca. But it is not enough if the excellence is to come to Sweden. You should also be able to change jobs within Sweden and be able to develop in your career. I'm not going to sound like an advertising brochure for the Gothenburg region. I want to be an advocate for Sweden to be at the forefront when it comes to applying for one of the most exciting authorities, so that it can land in Sweden. The Swedish Research Council's unit for clinical studies, based in Gothenburg, is a strong factor that speaks for Sweden. The government should be on its toes at this point, long before the UK has submitted its formal request for withdrawal from the EU. As a follow-up to Jenny Petersson's question, I would therefore like to know what concrete plans the government has. There must be ambition. Then you have to be prepared. And you have to be prepared before the others.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-529	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Jenny Petersson for the interpellation and Mr Rothenberg for his contributions. We seem to be touchingly agreed that there are great advantages in relocating EMA to Sweden. As I said in my reply, we need to do a thorough analysis before the government enters a formal campaign. This has to do with, among other things, what Mr Rothenberg mentioned in his speech, namely where in Sweden the authority would be located. Although Hans Rothenberg may think that Gothenburg and West Sweden are the obvious place for EMA, there are differences of opinion about this. There are several stakeholders from the Swedish side. It is a matter among others that the government must examine thoroughly before a possible formal campaign is launched. And there are many similar issues. Before the government decides on a possible campaign and thus presents the plans in the future, some form of anchoring work needs to be done in the Riksdag. Some of the plans that would form the basis of such a campaign also need to be put into practice. I do not wish to anticipate that discussion in any way and simply refer to the answer I have already given.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-534	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Gabriel Wikström, although I did not receive a concrete answer to how responsible the Minister will work for EMA to be relocated to Sweden. Gabriel Wikström mentioned in his reply that there are many stakeholders here in Sweden. Sweden is not that big, and that should be included in your analysis when submitting your application. There is a need for cooperation across Sweden and the regions that exist. I am from West Sweden and see many advantages with Gothenburg. If you're not prepared, you'll be unprepared. It is moving very fast on this issue among other countries in Europe. Madam President, I would like Gabriel Wikström talked about the necessary alliances and said he was willing to come to Parliament. The signals from us Moderates are pretty clear, aren't they? As far as I am aware, no one in the Swedish Parliament has flagged because they are against EMA. It could in itself be an EU-critical party, but you do not need to make a quick analysis of this in order to see what a majority in the Swedish Parliament looks like. For me, the next step, that is to say courage, is missing, is to move on from the analysis, the will, the strategy and the tempo. That's what's missing from the government. Many people in the life science sector have flagged because this is very important for Sweden. LIF's CEO Anders Blanck was out of the question before even Brexit had taken place. The government's life science coordinator Anders Lönnberg said in an eco-interview last summer that he wants the EU agency to be placed in Sweden. Mikael Damberg is of the same opinion. So there is a will here. Many stress the importance of this. We agree on the analysis. You write in your answer that it is important for work, research and so on. Next steps: What does the government do? What initiatives are you, as a minister, prepared to take to create the necessary alliances? What are you doing, and what will you do in the future?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-541	Madam President, I would like Let's make one thing clear. If the Agency comes to Sweden, Sweden, Europe and the EU are to congratulate. If the authority ends up in Stockholm – the Uppsala region, Gothenburg and Skåne are to be congratulated. If it should end up in the Gothenburg region, Sweden and the EU are to be congratulated. I would like to give the Minister some arguments, because there will be a discussion, and then it is good to have good friends with you. In this case, we moderates stand up as the government's absolute best friends when it comes to getting a good business to Sweden. We carry the extended hand from Olof Palme 1985 until we get EMA to Sweden. Astra Zeneca's biomedical hub is unique in the world. It's an amazingly exciting project. From the beginning empty premises are converted into a workshop for exciting medtec- and life science companies to grow in. This creates an interesting environment from an international perspective. Recently, the State Research Institute Rice has moved to the Gothenburg region. It is an industry-related life science infrastructure that is very interesting to connect with this. It is important to anchor. Thank you for the government's desire to anchor this with the Riksdag. But learn from the amazing effects we have had from the ESS project in Lund! Take advantage of these! Perhaps I understand that this is something the Minister cannot say. I do not think it is about not wanting to say it, but about not being able to say it in this debate. But I really hope that we can support each other and help Sweden get this amazing authority here.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-547	Madam President, I would like As I said, we fully agree on the great benefits of getting EMA to Sweden. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that if such a campaign is to be conducted, it should be conducted under the best conditions. In this work we will of course have had dialogue with important stakeholders and stakeholders both inside and outside Sweden's borders. We are going to probe the terrain to simply get a basis for us to be able to conduct a successful campaign as well as possible. Before the government has taken a decision on this issue, I cannot and will not go into the concrete strategies or plans for the future. But I can assure the House that we will hopefully present them in the very near future.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-549	Madam President, I would like I expect the government to act in order for Sweden to become a new host country for EMA. As Gabriel Wikström says, the government has a central role in this work and a responsibility to create the necessary alliances in Sweden and in the EU and to keep the relevant processes together. If the government waits or if it is not prepared to take this responsibility, Sweden's chances are small, and they become smaller and smaller, because EMA will end up here. As a result, the EMA would end up in another country where the issue has been raised higher on the agenda and has been much more capable of action. Madam President, I would like I expect the government to act and keep the relevant processes together in the future.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-552	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank you for a good interpellation and a good debate. It is very clear that we are in agreement on this issue. There are great advantages in locating EMA to Sweden. However, before entering a concrete campaign phase, certain types of analysis and preparation are needed to enable the government to make a decision that is as well-founded as possible. Until then, Members can simply give in to patience.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-554	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Widegren has asked me why I have not returned to Parliament with concrete proposals for measures to address the shortcomings in cleaning in health care and hygiene. Cecilia Widegren has also asked me what national strategies for increased patient safety the government intends to introduce and when the intention is for them to enter into force, and in what way I have gone from words to action since the previous interpellation debate on patient safety, avoidable health injuries and deficiencies in care cleaning. Cecilia Widegren has also asked when I and the Government intend to return to the Riksdag with concrete proposals and improvements that the Riksdag can support. Patient safety has a bearing on many parts of the healthcare system and is a very important issue for the government. Safe and safe care is a management issue and also requires that there are competent employees and a well-functioning supply of skills. The government has, among other things, given the county councils increased opportunities and better tools to address these challenges through the investment in professional billions. I am closely monitoring developments in the area of patient safety. Harmful injuries have decreased across the country as a whole, and serious injuries are significantly lower in 2015 than in previous measurements. At the same time, there are major regional differences. It is of the utmost importance that work to reduce health injuries continues, and the work of county councils and regions is crucial to the outcome. In order to reduce avoidable injuries, it is important that healthcare continues to operate in line with the zero vision of the number of injuries, which was the starting point for the temporary investment in patient safety in the years 2011 to 2014. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on patient safety was answered by the Government in December 2015 by letter to the Riksdag. In March 2016, the Speaker of the Riksdag presented the Social Affairs Committee's report and announced that the Riksdag had on the same day approved the committee's proposal for a parliamentary decision. Parliament's decision means that the Parliament has added the Government's letter to the document. The Landstingen and the carers are obliged to carry out systematic patient safety work. The Government has commissioned the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, in cooperation with several authorities and SKL, to develop a comprehensive support for healthcare in the area of patient safety. The Government also allocates funds to SKL, within the framework of the agreement on measures to improve the care of people with chronic diseases and more, to support healthcare in the systematic patient safety work and to carry out further measurements to monitor the development. The Government strengthens the county councils' prerequisites, including for patient safety work, through the proposals for long-term increased general government grants presented in the budget proposals for both 2016 and 2017. Good care hygiene is central to patient safety, and cleaning is an important part of the care hygiene. The state operates through standards and supervision, but cleaning is the care provider's responsibility. There are guidelines, guidelines and regulations to support this area. The government's work against antibiotic resistance is a very high priority. The Government decided in April on an updated strategy to combat antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic resistance is also recognised in the context of the national pharmaceutical strategy. Follow-up to both hygiene practices and clothing rules among healthcare professionals has steadily increased. From 1 January 2016, the hygiene and clothing rules already in force in the healthcare sector also apply to home care services, special accommodations and some LSS homes. Finally, Cecilia Widegren has asked me what analysis is behind prior to the investigation of complaints and supervision and cut back on the resources for the Inspection of Health and Social Care Resources to be able to carry out the supervision and follow-up required in healthcare, social services and care for the elderly before proposals have been made on a new structure for the handling of complaints. The Government has no intention of prioring the Complaint Investigation. The previous government already proposed, when IVO was set up in 2013, that IVO's administrative grant should be reduced by SEK 60 million from 2017. In view of the refugee situation, IVO received SEK 10 million in the 2016 spring change budget in order to be able to carry out effective work with permit testing and supervision. Furthermore, the Government has reconsidered the previous Government's decision to reduce IVO's administrative appropriations and therefore proposes in the 2017 Budget Bill that IVO's funding increase by SEK 70 million from 2017. In addition, it is proposed that IVO be provided with temporary funds of SEK 40 million in 2017, SEK 25 million in 2018 and SEK 10 million in 2019 for efforts due to the refugee situation.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-561	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for having the opportunity to come to Parliament and debate these important issues! I made a promise a year ago that we would meet here in Parliament again and follow up on what was said then, the promises made and, of course, what has happened in the area of patient safety in general and not least for health care hygiene and healthcare dirt. The basis for this is obviously that on the day when you need care, treatment and care, when you are exposed and ill, you should not suffer any further avoidable care injury or any infection or other due to poor hygiene or deficiencies in cleaning. This is not good enough in a welfare state in 2016. A zero vision is a prerequisite for us to be able to work towards a clear goal. However, the journey there is still very long. Madam President, I would like I am surprised that the Government chooses not to list what reality still looks like. Over 700 patients die annually in Swedish healthcare because they did not do quite right from the beginning. There are a number of health care injuries and infections that continue to affect people in health care. This says the report Injuries in health care. The National Board of Health and Welfare's study shows that over 100,000 patients annually suffer from a health injury. This would mean that at about 12% of all healthcare opportunities in Sweden today there is some kind of deficiency in patient safety work. Of these, 40% are related to healthcare-related infections. So they could have been avoided if you had had a systematic job and had worked with hygiene in a more legally certain way. Weaknesses in cleaning are part of this. As a patient, you can surely find it extremely distressing that the premises you are in are filthy and not hygienic. Madam President, I would like For this reason, I have chosen to ask a number of questions about what has been done since we stood here a year ago. The Government has a responsibility based on the Patient Safety Act, which was the first comprehensive legislation that Sweden got in place during the time of the Alliance Government. The government must, of course, ensure that it has strong action plans to implement the clear objectives and targets set by the Swedish Parliament. The Government promised a year ago to do what the Swedish National Audit Office has said. He said: As far as I am concerned, the immediate measures are aimed at taking on board the criticism that the National Audit Office has conveyed. These include, for example, supervision, support and long-term national governance, and in-depth and important proposals to address avoidable health injuries. I wish the Government had lifted some of the concrete measures that he has taken in this regard, because it was a focus area for him. The bill list for the Riksdag, as we know, is still empty. There are no concrete measures to be taken by the Riksdag on what to improve or strengthen in this area. This would have been a good time to also lift up future initiatives or what they want to do to strengthen patient safety work. I now hope that the Government will address the issues and clarify the concrete actions to make the difference visible so that it does not just become words. It's not just about talking, it's about doing. To get this in place requires leadership, as the Swedish Parliament demands.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-569	Madam President, I would like When I meet healthcare professionals around the country, they think that the reason for, among other things, lack of cleaning routines, but also hygiene routines in general, many times is that they do not really have time to have all the information available on a shift. This may be because some colleagues are missing or simply have to run too fast because they have too much to do. Much of the explanation for this is that healthcare is in dire need of more and increased financial resources. This has been the government's most important priority over the past year. We know that with increased financial resources for health care, not least all nurses, nurses and other health care professionals are given better opportunities to manage their job and have all the tasks available during a shift. This is also why the Government has submitted proposals to the Riksdag for increased general government contributions of SEK 10 billion from next year. We have also seen it as necessary to strengthen supervision. We have the supervisory authority The inspection of care, which should not just be able to come out and tell us what has gone wrong. It should also be able to reconnect with the business and tell you what could have been done differently to avoid, for example, health injuries in the near or distant future. The previous government gave an indication that the appropriations for the Inspection for Health and Care should be substantially reduced. The Agency would thus be given less opportunities to carry out this important supervisory work and the important preventive work that takes place when the activities receive feedback on what could be done more and different. Now the government's draft budget proposes that IVO should have more resources, not only as a result of the refugee crisis, but also as a result of the fact that IVO has such an important basic mission. This is an important measure that together with the SEK 10 billion but also together with the work that is done, among other things, within the framework of the National Board of Health and Welfare, will lead to us being able to push down the number of serious health injuries even more. It is just as Cecilia Widegren says not worthy of a welfare state like Sweden that so many patients every year suffer some form of care injury and even die.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-574	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government and the Government for taking this seriously. I and the Parliament clearly see that you do. But it is also important to move from words to deeds. I would like to start by saying it must be that the Government will think that the moderate budget is better because we are proposing both more to IVO and more in general government grants to both municipalities and county councils, where we top the government with 20 billion in the coming years. I don't think this is ultimately just about resources. It is ultimately a matter of feeling that you have methods, tools and opportunities in place to be able to do the right things in your health care department from the beginning. This is not the time, but it is about having clear leadership locally but of course also political support in what you do and political leadership – that the government makes it clear that it is patient safety that we focus on and that we are ready to take the next step in terms of action. When the Government stood here a year ago, he also promised to look at the K just-time investigation and return to the Riksdag with clear proposals. We are asking for these proposals. We wonder where they are. I do not understand that the Government wants to settle down, but he is somewhat receded in his response when he says that the trend in care injuries has improved. I have taken note of the same report that the Government has taken note of, Injuries in the care. It points to the 100,000 patients who are still in need of care. There is a decline in the proportion of care injuries, but the trend clearly shows that they have started to increase. The proportion of health-related infects and pressure ulcers is also growing again, and in these contexts it should be mentioned that care cleaning and hygiene are of vital importance. The number of reported injuries to patient insurance has also increased in recent years. So we cannot settle down and be receded, but we must act and put forward measures and concrete proposals to get this in place. I've been asking the question about the just-meal investigation. I would like to go further and ask questions about other concrete proposals. I am thinking, for example, of this: when we are now discussing doing even more for employees, is the Government prepared to review the training of, for example, cleaners? Could microbiology, for example, be something that it is reasonable to learn in order to have the right knowledge with you into work and thus be able to do better in the work that is going on? The government says he's going out to meet staff around the country. I'm sure you do. I am also clear that the Government is out meeting many county councillors and councillors around Sweden. I have taken the opportunity to ask them whether the government and the Government raise these issues in those talks. So far, no one has heard from them and said that it was one of the priority issues that the Government and the Government raised when they were out talking to the county councils. I hope, of course, that I am wrong in this area and that it is one of the priority issues that the Government brings out in the talks with the principals of Swedish health care. These were a number of further concrete questions to which I would like answers from the Government. This is, of course, a discussion that may well land in that it is someone else's responsibility. In the end, however, the government is in charge of the country, and the Patient Safety Act is one of the important instruments that the government has to deal with. Is the government satisfied with the developments that are being seen right now, or is it willing to take a few steps forward and present concrete measures to ensure that not only influence the trend but actually save more lives?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-585	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again, Cecilia Widegren, for this debate. I would like to start by saying that when I go around my healthcare dialogues and meet all county councils and regional leaders, one of the most important questions we are discussing is how we can ask about Swedish healthcare so that we get a healthcare system that can better meet the large patient groups that today dominate. Many times it is the multisick elderly who suffer from chronic diseases and who need a completely different type of care and organization of care than many groups needed during the 20th century. A consequence of the fact that the care has not really been along, I think we see precisely in the care injuries. It is clear that an elderly person who suffers from a variety of diseases and may need hospital beds for longer periods of time and much care is also more exposed to different types of care injuries, whether they are pressure sores or infections. If the care is not properly adapted to meet the patient's needs, then we also have problems. That is why this issue is one of the most important, and I have highlighted it at all my meetings. I am pleased to note that most county councils have begun this change of treatment. There is a full focus on this. It manifests in creating more team-based care, where several different specialties and professions can co-operate around one and the same patient to provide the best care, but also in better work sharing. When you have an education as a nurse, perhaps you should not also do the assistant's job or what was previously the job of the nurse's assistant. Perhaps you should not be responsible for the entire chain around the patient but be allowed to do exactly what you are best at when you are trained as a nurse. This division of labour needs to take place. We need to get more specialties and more professions into healthcare, but also to enhance the work done by the cleaners, not least. Here there is important work to do – not primarily to produce new knowledge, because the knowledge of how to clean in the best way and clear the health care hygiene is there. But it needs to be spread in a much better way, and above all, it needs to be better exploited by those who work in healthcare. You need time for this, and you need to have a situation where you don't run all the time as fast as you can to get to the most basic, the most important thing at work, but actually have time for all the routines. This is where I think the increase in resources proposed by the government is appropriate. However, it must go hand in hand with improved routines, with clear leadership and with the necessary change in care that our patients are so well worth.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-592	Madam President, I would like The injuries in Sweden today correspond to two full-loaded jumbo jets that crash in the country every year. That is not acceptable. That's not good enough. We have legislation that wants to counteract this, and the reason why I am having this interpellation debate again today is that I want to follow up on the answers I was given a year ago, especially about what has happened this year. Then Minister Gabriel Wikström said : The Swedish National Audit Office then made criticisms about supervision, support for healthcare providers, long-term national governance, in-depth investigations of important healthcare events and to use all knowledge and power. How much has happened since then? The starting point for moving from words to action is to fill this with concrete measures and constantly replenish. I think that the Government and the Government today are a little bit guilty of the answer. There are an enormous number of positive development areas that today work fantasticly in Swedish health care. But that is not why we met to have this discussion. It was rather to ensure what will happen tomorrow. I'm still deeply concerned. I have received a number of calls from people who feel that they had expected more of Swedish healthcare in 2016. With a wish from previous parliamentary discussions on a follow-up to the decisions made by the Swedish Parliament, try to return to the Riksdag with concrete measures and proposals! Fill the bill list!
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-597	Madam President, I would like I can start where Cecilia Widegren left off, with the bill list for the Riksdag. I think there are few things about health care hygiene, cleaning routines or similar in the healthcare sector that are solved by having a debate in the Riksdag or, for that matter, by the Riksdag making a decision on the government's proposals. There are some exceptions. For example, the K just-meal investigation is still being prepared at the Government Office; we will return with it. There may be some more. The big point when we stood here a year ago and debated exactly the same issue, and the point I want to make here tonight, however, is that we have good legislative work in place. What is at issue now is to ensure that it is applied, and that is increasingly the case. Cecilia Widegren also asked about the conclusions or what measures the government has taken following the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It is, among other things, the enhanced funds and resources for IVO. It is about improving supervision and providing better conditions for supervision that can be related to the activity and in that sense work preventively. It is, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out, about the problem that knowledge support is not always followed in the operations or that the support given at national level has not always been the best. This is precisely why the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, together with SKL and some other government agencies, has been tasked with improving support for healthcare hygiene and routines for it. It is in order for daily operations to have the best possible conditions to do a good job. We could list further efforts and measures, but I am content to note that the government provides resources and commissions to authorities to reduce health damage and provide safe and secure care for everyone.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-603	Madam President, I would like Eva Lohman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to further ensure the safety of the country's forensic psychiatric clinics. I have answered similar questions on a number of occasions both from the interpellier and from other authors. I shall be happy to reiterate my view and that of the government on this issue. The purpose of constitutionally protected freedoms and rights is to protect every citizen against various forms of public intervention. Among other things, this means that every citizen is protected against the general public against the examination of letters or other confidential consignments. However, the said right may be limited to a certain extent by law. However, a restriction may not go beyond what is necessary in view of the purpose which has led to it. The corresponding right and the possibility of restricting it also derives from the ECHR. Paragraph 8 of the Law (1991:1129) on forensic psychiatric care states that, unless otherwise specified in § 8(a), the provisions of Section 18 to 24 of the Act (1991:1128) on psychiatric care apply mutatis mutandis. This means that the possibility of using coercive measures in psychiatric care does not, in essence, differ between the two mentioned laws. According to Section 22 of the Act on Psychological Obsessive Care, the Chief Medical Officer may decide that consignments to patients may be examined for the purpose of checking that they do not contain property which the patient may not hold under Section 21 of the same Act. If an incoming consignment contains property that may not be held in accordance with Section 21, the property may be disposed of. In addition, the Chief Medical Officer may decide to monitor consignments from one patient if necessary with regard to the care or rehabilitation of the patient or in order to avoid that another suffers injury. For this purpose, the Chief Medical Officer may open, consult and detain consignments to the patient. This means that there are already good opportunities to review consignments. Against this background, I cannot see at present that there are sufficient reasons to further restrict citizens' rights and freedoms in the way that increased and regular control of consignments in the field of forensic psychiatric care would entail.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-607	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I note that the Government has received several similar questions in the past, perhaps because this is a very important issue for staff and other patients in the forensic psychiatric clinics. It is a major and constantly topical problem. In my interpellation I ask why there is such a difference if Pelle or Kalle, who are admitted under the law on forensic psychiatric care, one day get leave and get to move a little out in the community. Often you visit a store, and Kalle may get a package that he picks up from the post office; many shops have postal items. My experience comes from the forensic psychiatric region clinic in Sundsvall, where I have worked for quite a number of years. If Kalle picks up a package at the Ica store, takes it under his arm and goes back to forensics, the staff can check the package. But Kalle has, of course, learned that it is much smarter to post the package to himself so that he gets it one or two days later. Then the staff will not have the right to check. This is a major problem, because many times it is about people who are quite dangerous and have committed serious crimes. There is a big difference between being in a forensic psychiatric region clinic according to LRV, the law on forensic psychiatric care, and according to LPT, which applies to psychiatric compulsory care. You've done something, sometimes very bad things. A few years ago, additional security was introduced. Today, there is a general check-in in all forensic psychiatric clinics. In practice, however, it is ineffective when staff are unable to check, for example, mail or other consignments to the inmates. I do not understand the argument that this would be a violation of privacy. A common entry is also a violation of privacy for the patient because a physical search is made. You go through and look at what the patient has. But if there's a package in the mail, you can't open it. After all, staff are not interested in reading letters or looking at what they are, but they are most interested in seeing if there are dangerous things: drugs, knives or other things. This also concerns the safety of staff and other patients. It is not so long ago that a patient in Sundsvall responded to an advertising campaign and received a letter back from a well-known company. By chance, a staff member felt that there was something hard in him, and it was a knife that was given to him. It was lucky that the staff felt the letter, because these are dangerous things. The new safety rules in legal psychology have involved large costs for county councils. New entrances have been built and entry control has been introduced. I know that staff feel that this rigorous security is limping in the case of postal items and that this represents a major gap in legislation. It does not work, and I think that the law should be changed so that it is more consistent.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-615	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lohman, for the interpellation! I understand that this is a question of engagement. It does, like other similar issues, in part, I think, because it is not quite easy to answer but or both. This applies, on the one hand, to personal integrity, just as Eva Lohman touches on, on the other hand, to the safety of patients, employees of forensic clinics and fellow patients. In my reply and the questions I have sent earlier, including to the interpeller, I take note of and try to describe today that there are possibilities within the framework of the law to open this type of mail if there is a suspicion that they contain property that the patient should not have. I am well aware that sometimes it may seem bureaucratic and not quite easy to do so, but at the same time we should remember that in the second balance we have the patient's integrity to take into account. I think it is important that we try to keep this balance. One of the most important principles of a rule of law such as Sweden is precisely that the rights of individuals can be safeguarded. They will too, but then there is the type of valves I have described, in the form that you can actually check consignments and thus stop the introduction of knives or similar. As I said in the interpellation response, I do not think there is any reason to change the law, but it is clear that it is still very important to listen to those who work in these activities and see if there is any reason to review, for example, routines, knowledge support or the like.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-620	Madam President, I would like I hear what the Minister says. It is unreasonable to ask the Chief Medical Officers to decide on each letter or package that comes in. Moreover, it is very difficult to assess which letter or package could be detrimental. You check one, you don't check one. Instead, this is about introducing routine checks on everything that comes into the forensic psychiatric clinics, not out of curiosity but for safety reasons. I cannot see that this would be a violation of privacy for patients. They're taken care of. They are in forensic psychiatric clinics according to LRV, i.e. the law on forensic psychiatric care. They're in custody. I think we need to review the legislation. You have to listen to the employees, because this is a big problem. It is a major problem not only in Sundsvall but also in other forensic psychiatric clinics. This limps badly. As someone put it, we don't have a Clark Kent working at the clinic. I don't think anyone has, but you'd need someone to see what's in the letter. It is important to listen to the staff who work with this daily. Sometimes it's very dangerous people they're dealing with. What I mentioned earlier, that you post letters to yourself to avoid going through the entry control, is something that everyone is aware of. That's how it works today. Anyone who doesn't have pure flour in the bag doesn't take his package under his arm, because then it will be checked, but he or she – usually it's a he– mailing it. You could compare this with the control that exists at our airports: it's security check, X-ray, and sometimes we get body-searched when we're going flying. I don't think that's a violation of privacy. I think it feels safe and good even if it sometimes takes a long time. The aim is also not to bring anything into the aircraft that can be dangerous to others. I cannot believe that it would be perceived as a violation of privacy that letters or packages are opened when it comes to a person in custody, who is perhaps very dangerous and who is sitting in a forensic clinic. What is the logic of this, when compared to airports? I don't think you can have it like this. If it doesn't work, you have to look at the legislation. One has to believe that those who work on these issues every day know what they are talking about. It is about consideration and care for other patients. You don't want to wait until something happens. You do not want to have the responsibility that something dangerous can happen and know that you can only change that.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-627	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is not an easy question we are debating here tonight. As I said in my previous speech, it is about balancing personal integrity on the one hand and safeguarding the safety of patients and those working in clinics on the other. I believe, however, that the comparison with airport controls is slightly limping. At an airport you are voluntary to carry out some form of travel. This is also a voluntary approach to controls of this kind. That is the condition for moving forward in the world. The forensic psychiatric patients, who are in the clinic of coercion, are people who have very few free rights left in their lives. It will then be particularly important to protect the rights that they still have. Among other things, that's why the law looks like it does. At the same time, there are possibilities under the law to open postal consignments and packages in case of suspicion to ensure that no unauthorised or dangerous substances, weapons or the like are taken in. It is possible that both routines and knowledge support would need to be reviewed when opening packages are received and how this is to be applied in practice. Nevertheless, I maintain that the law as it stands provides for this type of control. There is also a carefully considered reasoning on the one hand about personal integrity and on the other hand about the security thinking that is so necessary in this type of facility.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-631	Madam President, I would like I think the Minister would do well to trust what those who work in the businesses say. It is those who see what works well and what works less well. This with routine checks is something they feel strongly that they would have to do. I can invite the Minister to the legal psychologist in Sundsvall to see how it works in practice. You have a great deal of care and feeling for the patients that exist. It's rehabilitation that you work with. The goal is that they will eventually go back into society. But before you're finished--it's a process that can take quite a long time-- as a patient, you can be dangerous both to yourself and to others. That is why I believe that we should not be so afraid to change the legislation. You get much better protection in the clinics. We have rigorous legislation on one side, but when it comes to postal management, it is limping. It's a giant hatch, like someone said. This works badly with the rest. You need to find a better balance. I don't think you should put the responsibility on top of the chief doctors. Like I said before, if you check one, you don't check one. There must be routine controls that all staff should be able to carry out.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-635	Madam President, I would like Again, what we are talking about here is the balance between personal integrity and the safety of forensic psychiatric clinics. I take note of what Eva Lohman said in her closing speech, namely that you can be in such a clinic for a very long time. Depending on what diagnosis you have and what is the background to being there, it also takes different lengths of time before you are printed, and the process is different. I think it is very important that each individual case is taken into account when assessing whether or not a patient is considered inclined to take in or have access to unauthorised material. It is also a reason why the law looks like it does and that so much responsibility lies with the chief physician, who ultimately has to make the assessment of whether there is anything to suspect and whether to proceed and open a postal consignment. I am, of course, impressed by the debate. I think there is reason to consider both routines and knowledge support. Once again, I thank you for the interpellation and for the questions I have received on this subject in the past.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-640	Madam President, I would like Good evening. Nooshi Dadgostar has asked me what measures I intend to take at the moment to address the problem of so-called renovation and inappropriate property owners. Thank you for the interpellation. I think this is a very important issue that Mr Nooshi is raising. Renov calculations are a concept that is used about a situation where the rents of a property are raised after a renovation with so much that people see themselves forced to move away from there. We can begin by stating that, while we have a great need for new housing, we are facing several challenges relating to our existing stock. This applies not least to many of the multi-family buildings built in the 1960s and 1970s as part of the so-called million-dollar programme. A large part of these are basically good and functional buildings but in need of renovation. At the same time, we need to reduce energy use in the building stock and facilitate the transformation of the energy system. In order to bring about renovation and energy efficiency even in areas where people have low purchasing power without having to result in such large rent increases that people are forced to move, the government has introduced state support for renovation and energy efficiency in some areas. Property owners renting out housing in areas where a majority of tenants have low purchasing power may thus receive support for carrying out renovation and energy efficiency, on condition that the rent is discounted for seven years after the renovation has been completed. It is easy to understand that State aid cannot be sufficient for all buildings in the country that are in need of renovation. Most buildings are renovated, and will need to be renovated, without support. But then it is also important that the tenants who already live in the buildings have a real opportunity to influence how and to what extent the renovation will take place. The government believes that there is reason to review the tenant's position in these contexts. This is why the Government has set up an investigation to investigate, among other things, how the rules on tenants' influence over improvement and change work are applied and whether the tenants' influence should be strengthened. It is also part of the investigation to evaluate the repeal of the Act on the Acquisition of Rental Properties, etc. and consider whether the possibilities to intervene against property owners who do not provide acceptable housing should be increased. Once the report has been submitted, we have a basis for moving forward on these issues.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-648	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The interpellation is primarily about the fact that there are a lot of inappropriate landlords in many of the areas where the company I specifically mention owns real estate. They do not take social considerations into account; they are primarily there to make money. During the week I have been in Husby, which is located in Stockholm, and visited tenants who have just this private landlord: D. Carnegie. The landlord writes on his website that they make a huge profit of SEK 434 million. At the same time, many people feel that maintenance is not done. You do substandard renovations that you shock up the rent for. Dissatisfaction is not among a few, but there are so many who have been out to demonstrate and sign protest lists. I've got a whole list of things the landlord can't handle. I will mention some of the things the tenants have told me that the landlord is unable to manage the stock. The tenants have renovated themselves for thousands of SEK because the landlord has not done so. The fridges have been replaced with coolers that are older and that do not work. Kitchen hatches hang loose and have fallen down on a child, for example, who had to have surgery. The tenants have several times contacted the landlord without the landlord having returned. The landlord's not responding. Bathrooms are damp and smell bad. In a few cases they have been renovated. But then it has not been done in a professional way, so it is again moisture damaged and moldy. It's extremely cold in the apartments. The tenants themselves need open ovens and turn on stoves to make it possible to live in the apartments. I met a woman who told me that she had to tap hot water to heat the apartment. She got warm water on her and now has burns on her chest and arms. Many say that they need to wear clothes indoors in order to be there. The landlord requires that they pay for a certain part of the maintenance. The stairwells are unfresh and do not work. The grounds are dangerous to the children. And there are bugs in the apartments. I talked to a father who claimed that the landlord meant that you can't fix things in the apartment without having to live with it. You blame different things. When I looked at the company's accounts, I found that 40% of maintenance expenditure has been cut. Then it's no wonder that there's a lot of things that don't work inside the apartments. You just do something. In Sweden we have laws and rules that govern this. I'm going to give the housing alimony. Many of the tenants in Husby have paid their rent for decades and are therefore entitled to maintenance of the dwelling. I wonder: How does the Minister of Housing want to guarantee that the residents of Husby will receive the maintenance to which they are entitled? It's obviously not working. How are we gonna make it work? Is the Minister for Housing, for example, prepared to make it easier to get immediately reduced rent if the landlord does not do the job it should do? Can municipalities get bigger muscles to access a landlord? What does the Minister of Housing want to say to these specific tenants in Husby today? What's the word from the housing minister?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-656	Madam President, I would like As far as the last question is concerned, I can say straight away: I do not have enough knowledge of the individual case. Nor is it the intention of a system like what we have in Sweden for the government to go in and take action against individual companies or property owners if they break the law and if they do not behave properly, we have courts to do so. If it is the case that legislation should be amended, we also have a system for it. It's about us conducting investigations. Then there's the suggestion from there. In fact, as I have just said, we have set up a special investigation which raises the question that it may be reasonable to strengthen precisely the possibility of intervening against property owners who do not provide adequate housing and do the renovation. You might need to tighten it up. It is about measures against individual property owners. But it is not the government itself that is doing this, but in that case we have authorities such as the police and prosecutors and other actors who are doing so. Then there are property owners who work in very different ways on these issues. There are individual property owners who, for example, give tenants the opportunity to choose. They then have an influence and can be involved in negotiating how to handle renovations even before they start. They can choose whether to do smaller or larger renovations. It is clear that if major renovations are made, this means that in the long term there will be higher rental costs for tenants. I find that method very interesting. I think it would be interesting if more property owners would follow that model. We'll see what the investigation says about that kind of action. Another issue related to this is that in the past we have also had statutory requirements to allocate money to renovation funds, but it has been removed by previous governments. In the long term, it may be an interesting question to review again. Clearly, however, property owners act very differently. There are those who do not do their job as property owners in a good way vis-à-vis tenants, while there are others who do so in an excellent way.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-662	Madam President, I would like After all, legislation has consequences for individuals, and it is important to highlight what the impact of legislation is and what it looks like in reality. This is not an abstract product, it is about people. So I wonder what the Minister of Housing thinks about the situation. Does he want to do something about it, for example, make sure that you get a discount on the rent directly if the property owner is not doing well? There is a problem today in the Swedish housing market, and that is that we have very short-term owners who buy up large property holdings in many areas, not only in the Stockholm area but throughout the country. They're there to make money, and they have substandard management. In this particular case, Blackstone has bought up the area. It is one of the largest real estate speculators in the United States, a venture capital company that probably can't point Sweden on a map. The houses become a commodity that is moved from one buyer to another over and over again, and no one manages the houses long-term. This must be something to which the Minister for Housing reacts and wants to do something about it. Does the Minister possibly have an opinion on this issue and think that something should be done about it that many people feel is a systemic error with many speculators entering the market? D. Carnegie draws as said was down very much on maintenance and makes big profits. Just go into the website and look at this, and it is the tenants' money that goes down in the wrong pockets. I wonder how to deal with the social problem of property speculation and poor management. How is it to be ensured that the housing that the commons sell out, for example, does not end up in the hands of the wrong people? How does the Minister want to help the public good financially so that our municipal housing companies do not have to sell out such large parts of their property holdings? In that case, we would avoid the problem of short-term hosts managing our properties. It is a problem that the company, as in other places, makes a business arrangement, that is, you maintain almost no housing but wait for the tenant to tire out. Then you come in and do a pretty big operation in the home, the kind of standard renovation that allows you to raise rents very strongly, sometimes by over 50 percent. An increased housing cost of 50 percent I do not think the Minister for Housing, homeowners or, for that matter, tenants in the inner city of Stockholm would accept. So I wonder: does the Minister accept that it will be so unfair that these people will have to pay huge rent increases? The administrator cannot handle maintenance, but does rather substandard renovations in sometimes just a few weeks, as has happened, but makes very large rent increases based on this. How does the Government think the tenants should act in this case? Does the Government have any advice to give?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-670	Madam President, I would like Nooshi Dadgostar raises a great many different issues. Is it reasonable to be able to sell housing? What to do about the commons selling housing? Should you stop companies that want to sell homes and rental properties? These are rather fundamental democratic issues that are, in fact, largely concerned with which parties they choose. After all, it is democratic parties that build public housing companies and in some cases also sell companies and properties. I think there have been many mistakes on these issues. I think that today we can see that there have been quite a lot of problems in the housing market due to the fact that parties and majorities in our larger cities, in particular, have chosen to sell out a lot of rental properties and convert some of them into residential apartments. I also think that a lot of utility housing companies in democratic, municipal ownership have been mismanaged. We have quite a few examples of the fact that not enough has been set aside to cope with the renovations. Money has been transferred from these housing companies to the municipal treasury instead of using the money to manage the properties and ensure that they are in good condition. In retrospect, we can therefore see a great deal that should have been done in a different way, but to some extent it is difficult to prevent the selection of parties who want to make such changes. In another part, however, it is possible to tighten up the legislation, and now that we have a red-green government – although unfortunately we do not have a red-green majority in the Riksdag – there are opportunities to possibly tighten up the legislation. For example, it is about strengthening the ability to influence how and to what extent renovations can take place. We have an investigation that looks at this, and when it is finished, we will have to consider whether there are good proposals that could be passed on to a legislative amendment. This also applies to the question of the acquisition of rental properties and whether it may be possible to tighten the rules against property owners who do not manage the properties, for example do not provide acceptable accommodation, do not renovate where there is an obvious need or otherwise mismanage the properties. On the other hand, I think that what Mr Nooshi understood was about, namely that companies are doing renovations that are very small but still lead to substantial rent changes, should not have to happen because we have a system of rental regulations where this should be dealt with already today.
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-677	Madam President, I would like I do not feel that the Minister is giving very strong advice to the tenants of Husby, which one can expect. In the statistics we see that private hosts spend significantly less on maintenance than the utilities do, and there are those public-interest hosts who then feel compelled to sell for various reasons. Therefore, it would have been important to hear from the Minister for Housing how to facilitate and help the commons so that they do not have to sell out in different ways, or that the municipalities can intervene so that the administration does not become this bad. The problem is that maintenance is so bad and not working and that you do not feel that there are any tools that you can use to access it. The legislation that exists today is very weak, and the renovations that are being carried out are poor, they take place in a very short time and there are large rent increases that cannot be mitigated. Is the Minister for Housing in any way able to express his personal opinion on the matter? Is it reasonable to do that? Are these managers supposed to be in our rental holdings? Is it good stewards who act like that? Can tenants do something today instead of waiting for these investigations that may take a long time? What can they do to make homes habitable at all?
i-7beaf98b4e08ec64-681	Madam President, I would like The government and not individual ministers decide which individual entrepreneurs are good or bad and then take action. We are trying to see whether there are errors in the regulatory framework or improvements that should be made to the regulatory framework in terms of legislation and regulations. The government is also not an advisory office. We do not advise individuals on how to act. Nooshi Dadgostar can do just as well. However, the government is working on legislation. As I said earlier, work is under way. There are ongoing investigations into these issues. When those investigations are completed, we will take a political position on the proposals that will be made, if the legislation is to be tightened up so that property owners cannot abuse their position or so that the tenants' position can be improved.
