i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-17	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the deposit guarantee that exists to make people feel safe and secure when they deposit their money in a bank instead of hiding it in the mattress. The reason I wanted to have a debate today is that I think the majority of the committee does not respond to the objections that we in the Left Party have to the proposal that is on the table. I hope that these questions will be answered in today's debate. There are basically two reasons for having deposit guarantee schemes. The first reason is to protect ordinary people's pay accounts and savings in the event of a bank going bankrupt. The second reason is to create stability in the financial system. No bank, whether in a strong financial position or in distress, has enough money to pay out if all customers at the same time wish to withdraw their deposits. This is not how our banking system looks, and therefore banks are sensitive to the risk of withdrawal storms if depositors do not believe that their money is safe and try to withdraw all their deposits at the same time. This is a major systemic risk to the entire financial system that can seriously affect our entire economy. In order to reduce this risk, countries have introduced deposit guarantees that guarantee depositors money up to a certain level in case of bank closure or bankruptcy. At the same time, it is possible to imagine that deposit guarantees also have an aspect that can act in a destabilising direction in the financial system. If there was no deposit guarantee, customers would probably consider both once and twice and be more careful about placing their money in high-risk banks. A deposit guarantee can thus contribute to increased risk-taking in the financial sector. The design of a deposit guarantee scheme must therefore take into account the advantages and disadvantages of the guarantee. Deposit insurance is basically a very good thing. It protects anyone who saves their money if the bank goes bankrupt. In recent years we have seen how the deposit guarantee has changed quite a lot. From a maximum of 100 000 SEK that was protected, the amount was raised to 500 000 SEK, and with today's decision it becomes an EU standard that in Sweden means that 950 000 SEK is protected. At the same time, it is also a guarantee that the banks will receive a security – a guarantee that the state will go in and cover if everything goes to hell for the bank. This allows the bank to take greater risks when they know that the state stands with Svarte Petter. The Left Party is fundamentally in favour of the proposals in the bill, but at the same time raises some objections. The risk of the proposal is that the fee to be paid by banks only takes into account the relative level of risk between different banks without taking into account risks in the system as a whole and that they can change over time. This has meant that both the Riksbank and the Swedish National Debt Office and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have had objections to the proposal, but neither the Government nor the Swedish Parliament majority have listened to them. In addition to this, the EU Directive allows Sweden to guarantee a higher amount of compensation, i.e. more than SEK 950 000, for certain deposits that are based, for example, on the sale of private homes or certain other specified life events. The Government proposes in the bill that this additional amount be set at SEK 5 million, i.e. a little over five times higher than for other deposits. The Left Party believes that the proposed higher compensation amount of SEK 5 million is too high and that instead it should be set at SEK 3 1⁄2 million. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation under paragraph 2, and in paragraph 1, I am in favour of the proposal contained in the proposal.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-26	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. This report is one of Parliament's proposals and will have to deal with the EU's Banking Union and the adaptation of Swedish rules to the EU's requirements. Most of the time, this has meant a significant tightening of the regulatory framework for banks and financial institutions. A good example of this is the Crisis Management Directive, which was implemented in Swedish law at the beginning of this year. It can rightly be said that this was one of the more comprehensive regulations decided on during this Parliamentary session and perhaps even during this parliamentary term. The enhanced deposit guarantee is another component for a more robust and credible financial market across the EU. Mr President, I would like to The EU Banking Union includes all euro area countries. For countries outside the euro zone, it is possible to join now or later. The Swedish position is that at present we will not become members, but that in the future we can become members if we feel that this would benefit us and our financial system. Some measures are important for the entire EU financial market. Two of them are the crisis management directive and the deposit guarantee. There are a few more. Mr President, I would like to The deposit guarantee has been in Sweden for a number of years and was created to prevent financial instability. When a bank has proved to have major financial problems and has even been going into bankruptcy, it has resulted in bank customers sometimes panicking at their savings, which has caused economic instability and sometimes also meant that bankruptcy has been the only solution. In fact, this is relatively simple from a purely legislative point of view and consists of two parts. Firstly, it concerns the rules applicable to banks and other financial institutions regarding the financing of the deposit guarantee. Secondly, it is about the maximum amount the individual bank customer can obtain from the guarantee. As I said, the deposit guarantee already exists in Sweden, and for a number of years it has been a maximum of SEK 500 000. The new system would mean that the guarantee would normally be a maximum of SEK 950 000 and in special cases a maximum of SEK 5 million. The latter can be done if there are special circumstances, such as the disposal of private housing, unemployment, sickness and the payment of insurance compensation for damages in the event of a crime. So these are extraordinary situations in life and are not the norm. Mr President, I would like to Each financial institution shall pay an annual fee to the guarantee authority. The fee shall be based on the deposit at the end of the previous year and on the deposit covered by the deposit guarantee. These fees shall take into account the level of risk in the respective financial institutions and the institutions' total fee shall be 0,1 % of the deposits. This may sound a bit complicated, and I suppose it is. There is a ceiling on this for all financial institutions, but so there is no floor for the individual institution, and there are also certain rules that can be applied, for example, if the fees are not sufficient to be able to pay the guarantee. Mr President, I would like to There is a reservation in this report that the rules on fees should not be applied according to what the proposal proposes. Instead, we want a floor to be laid down for each institute. In addition, the reservation does not want 5 million in the higher level, but wants to reduce this to 3 1⁄2 million SEK. In terms of fees, the Government has chosen this form and believes that this provides transparency and clarity. With regard to the proposal on the increase in the amount, the motive for the reservation is extremely thin. It is incomprehensible that the person who has become ill, unemployed, sold a dwelling or received an amount from, for example, an insurance policy should not be regarded as an ordinary employee. We think that is a very strange idea. On the contrary, we believe that it is important to be able to protect them even if they have ended up in such a situation. Perhaps something has been planned for this money, such as paying off debts that you have. Maybe that's why you've chosen to sell your home. You may be waiting for the money to pay off something you would not otherwise have paid off. That is a completely incomprehensible position, and we strongly reject this reservation. I will also answer the question of instability. It is very difficult to understand that the bank guarantee itself could increase financial instability. I honestly do not understand that argument, and it is very difficult to answer questions that are not really understood. When it comes to the level of the fee, neither the Swedish National Debt Office nor the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority decide or guide the Ministry of Finance or the Riksdag in how to put the rules on the financial market.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-42	Mr President, I would like to Börje Vestlund takes breast tones around the amount. I really think we need to reverse this, because that is what we are trying to point out in our reservation: there are balances that we have to weigh off. There are risks for the individual depositor to deposit the money at the bank, and there the state goes in and protects to increase the stability of the financial system. But there is also a risk to the state that the banks are not doing well, which can cause people to worry and everyone to withdraw their money at the same time. If all 9 million inhabitants of Sweden withdraw their 950 000 SEK in their account – which in itself does not all have, but if they withdraw the maximum amount – there will be a great risk and strain. Especially if some people have the opportunity to withdraw as much as SEK 5 million, the stress on an individual bank will be very great. The state is taking a lot of risks, because it's about large amounts. That's why you have to keep weighing this off. I do not think there is any obvious fact that 5 million or 3 1⁄2 million is right, but we actually have to weigh the risks of the state anywhere, Börje Vestlund. I don't think you need to use those chest tones for that. What we are pointing out is that there are risks in the system as a whole. Over time, the situation of banks can change, and then there is no science that 1% of the total deposit guarantee is what will make it possible to be perfect in its approach to how much money banks should pay into the system. This means that we need to be able to treat banks a little differently depending on the risks they take. The problem is that the government does not see the banks as risks. You do not see what billions of profits banks make to such an extent that you dare to tax them really, really hard, but the Left Party has had to push through a bank tax through negotiations with the government. It does not even want banks to be divided so that investment and risk-taking activities are separated from savers' accounts. That makes me worried, and that's why I think this reservation is good.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-49	Mr President, I would like to It may be that Håkan Svenneling was not here in the autumn when we had at least two, if not three, debates about the risks in different types of financial institutions. It was discussed quite properly. At that time we really discussed how to deal with banks and the entire financial market, namely in the crisis management directive. Håkan Svenneling was not in that debate, but it was Jörgen Andersson from the Moderates and I who sat here until ten o'clock in the evening and debated this. I can say this: That's a great argument, Håkan Svenneling. We are working together on the budget, and then we have to say that this was our proposal, and that was not your proposal, including your proposal. To be honest, I think it is a big deal and a lot of fuss from the Left Party in that respect. If we have a deal, we have a deal. Sometimes you can take the credit of having done something but not every time. It is not that one has had to push through a bank tax, but that was quite agreed. That stupid argument is therefore quite ineffective. In terms of risk-taking in the system, banks should pay for this themselves. That's not something the state should pay; that's the point. That's why you pay a fee to the guarantee authority. The state has nothing to do with this. You monitor this and you can also adjust it if it turns out necessary. That all bank customers would take out all their savings at the same time will never happen in reality but is probably a fantasy picture that Håkan Svenneling paints here.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-54	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we Members of Parliament in the Committee on Finance have a very large and heavy responsibility for the financial system working in Sweden, both when the sun shines and everything goes well and also when it is rain and bad weather, yes, even when there is a crisis. This means that we have a huge responsibility to ensure that the rules and laws that exist in Sweden can handle even the unexpected. We know from history that it has happened that there has been annihilation and that people are trying to withdraw their money. We know that this has happened in Sweden but especially in other countries around the world. Therefore, we have a responsibility to have legislation that ensures that Sweden is well equipped for such an event: it should not happen, but if it does, we should be ready. I think that Börje Vestlund is taking this issue a little too lightly in a way that I do not like, and that is why I think, for example, that bank sharing, which places the banks' risk business in one company and savers' accounts in another, would be a good way for Sweden and the whole of Europe to go. I think it is very good that we have not entered the Banking Union and hope and believe that it will continue to be so. On the other hand, we shall work with other European countries where it is reasonable for us to cooperate and agree. I think it is very good that the Left Party has pushed the Social Democrats to introduce a bank tax, partly because we need more taxes in order to finance good welfare, partly and above all because the banks earn huge profits – over 100 billion each year – because in principle we all have to have an account in order to be able to collect our wages and pay our payments. Then it is good that we can tax them to SEK 1.2 billion annually. I'm proud to be in a party that's pushed it through.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-59	Mr President, I would like to Something very big will happen if everyone goes and withdraws all their money at the same time, almost a world crisis. I find it very difficult to see how that situation could happen at all. It has not occurred in modern times, possibly at the Kreuger crash. During the last crisis, they took out quite a bit of their money. That's not where the problem was. On the other hand, it was realised that something needed to be done to protect banking customers in that situation, and that was the time when deposit guarantees were introduced. The main reason, however, was not that people had lost so much money. Rather, at the time, it was necessary to protect those who borrowed money by having a more stable financial system. So it has a little to do with each other. We take great account of risk-taking. As I said, this is not crucial for the entire financial system. There's other tools. I would like to mention again the crisis management directive, which has been thoroughly reviewed. Banks and financial institutions must pay up for their own risks and set aside for them. This is what Håkan Svenneling knows very well, so I have to say that there will be a somewhat strange debate.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-63	Mr President, I would like to The state-owned companies are an asset for Sweden. They play an important role in the diversity of business and contribute to employment across the country. All in all, they constitute Sweden's largest employer. It requires responsible leadership and strategic thinking and, of course, a strong awareness of the risk-taking nature of all business activities. The Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's management of risks in state-owned companies, which we are discussing here today, is a tool for the continued development of state ownership, for the benefit of the Swedish people, our common service, growth and competitiveness. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal that the letter as such be added to the file. I take note of the consensus that prevails on the report itself and its wording and note that no motions have been tabled on the matter. There is therefore strong and comprehensive support for the content. The anchoring of the letter is good. The purpose of the Swedish National Audit Office's review has been twofold: firstly, to assess whether the government has ensured that risk management in the state companies is appropriate for the state, i.e. that the parliament and the government get an overview of the overall risks in the state company portfolio, and secondly, to assess whether the government provides appropriate information to the Riksdag so that it can monitor its delegation of powers and resources to the government to the state companies. The Swedish National Audit Office also makes four recommendations. Of these, the government does not agree with two and also explains the reason for this. As regards the other two recommendations, the Government reports on the measures it intends to take in response to them. The Minister for Enterprise and Innovation has also presented and stressed in this House the importance of ensuring that when companies are faced with particularly important decisions, the Board of Directors, through so-called ownership coordination, will coordinate its views in writing with the representatives of the owner. This written position will then be prepared jointly within the Government Office. Two specific opinions, for which I have full respect, have been submitted on the matter, and I would just like to make a brief comment on them. In the first, parties M, C, L and KD speak in principle of opposition to state ownership. However, it adds the small piece of evidence that state enterprises will remain a reality in the foreseeable future. It is highlighted that the role of the state should normally be to set out the framework and rules applicable to business and businesses, not to own and operate companies. In this context, there is reason to highlight the importance of joint ownership. There are no individual profit interests that govern the state enterprises. Their return will benefit the Swedish people, either through direct distribution of profits or through the development work carried out in the companies. Companies that are large in this context, such as Vattenfall, LKAB, SJ, Postnord, Systembolaget, Svenska Spel and Apoteket, are of great importance for society's development and citizens' service. Democratic or, if you like, popular support, openness and the benefit of society should be emphasised. The ownership itself, on the other hand, is not an end in itself, but rather the strategic importance that companies and their operations have for Sweden. The overall objective of state ownership is for companies to create value for society and, where appropriate, to ensure that the specifically decided social tasks, which several companies have, are performed well. The Government points out, which was the last time we discussed the issue of state ownership in the Riksdag, that it constantly reviews the portfolio of companies in order to examine the reasons for continued state ownership, but also as part of considering the companies' various tasks and orientations. The sale of state property must be carried out in a commercial manner, according to the Budget Act. State-owned enterprises shall operate under conditions of efficiency, return on capital represented by the company and structural adjustment. The Left Party, for its part, stresses in its opinion the importance of strengthening state ownership. The opinion submitted contains wordings that could change the conditions for the roles that government and management now have to deal with. It is important, as I see it, to balance the professionalism and commercialism that are necessary for successful entrepreneurship and the popular support that is needed for long-term sustainable trust. Responsible ownership requires, for example, at times that one can act without short-term expression of opinion overturning a future strategy for both employees and the task one has to deal with. In some cases, the social mission is clearly stated in the Ownership Directives. Others do not have the role of society as a directive, but anyone who acts and acts in public service – I believe that everyone here can sign – nevertheless has a particular responsibility to bear. The committee shares the Swedish National Audit Office's view that it is important to ensure that risk management in the overall state corporate portfolio is good. We therefore welcome the auditor's review of the government's management of the risks in the companies. The general principles are that they should create long-term values, and in cases where the companies have community assignments, they should be performed well. The review shows that the Swedish National Audit Office believes that information about risks and consequences for the individual companies should be collected so that, in view of the importance of state shareholdings for the state finances, the Riksdag can have an important overall perspective. For this reason, the committee welcomes, which may be worth emphasising, that the government intends to take steps to develop information to the Riksdag by providing a comprehensive picture of the risks in the company portfolio. Through the committee's initiative, we have had dialogue with, among others, Vattenfall and visits to Telia Sonera and Postnord. As members of Parliament, we also have the opportunity to participate in every general meeting. Transparency and transparency are well served for those who have an interest and commitment to take part in the activities carried out. Finally, I would like to say a few brief words about sustainable development. Here are the state companies, and so be it, examples. It is about human rights, business ethics, equality and diversity. Over the last decade, work has been going on to strengthen the work of state-owned companies in the field of sustainability. Here the government takes further initiatives to develop the work. It is in itself also a means of competition in a modern globalised market. The committee, which supports this work, stresses the importance of the government continuing to develop its work in the management of state-owned companies on the basis of this dimension.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-89	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the matter in which the Swedish National Audit Office is looking at risks in state-owned companies. PerPer-Arne Håkansson made that very clear in his speech. He has also mentioned the purpose, which I think is important to emphasise, of assessing whether the government has ensured that the risks in the state companies are appropriate for the state, i.e. that the parliament and the government get an overview of the overall risks in the state company portfolio. The second part is to assess whether the Government provides the Riksdag with appropriate information on significant risks in state-owned companies. This means that information that comes to Parliament gives the Riksdag the opportunity to follow up its delegation to the government of powers and resources in the state companies. In substance, our views of the alliance parties on the wording have been met by the government parties. That is why we have also supported the committee's position. However, the Alliance parties have a separate opinion on the matter, which we support. It is based on the basic view of state ownership of companies. It is that we believe that the role of the state should normally be to set out the framework and rules that should apply to business and businesses – not to own and operate companies. At the same time, we note that the state today is a large company owner and will be so for the foreseeable future, something that Per-Per-Arne Håkansson called a brasklapp. I don't know if I can say that, but I think it's very big values that should be handled for a long time to do a good job. So I don't share his vision. In addition to the points made by the committee on principles, we would like to stress that the role of the state as legislator and owner should be kept separate and managed in a professional manner. It's really important. Mr President, I would like to In the committee's position, all parties now recommend the government to ensure that the Riksdag benefits from an overall picture of the risks of the shareholding, as it is a significant part of the state's finances. These are great values – together, the companies are one of Sweden's largest employers, which we have also heard – and ultimately the companies are owned by the Swedish people. The state thus has a great responsibility to be an active and professional owner. That is what we stress. It is important to get a comprehensive documentation with ongoing updates where risks and consequences are compiled and provide better opportunities to follow up your own activities both for the government and for the Riksdag both today and onwards. Of course, sensitive information must be taken into account, but it is possible to do this better. Watching the companies in their environment is very important. One by one we often do so in Parliament when we debate here and in various committees. But all in all, you can see the total portfolio. LKAB has mining industry and is struggling with international prices and social responsibility to move a city. In Vattenfall and in the energy market, there will be in the case of power taxes which prevent nuclear power, for example, from being continued, which is a risk. Postnord, as has also been mentioned, has a social mission. They deliver letters – the question is where they go. They work with packages and new solutions. There are also risks to look at here. Telia is present in markets that can help create better values for people, but at the same time there is corruption in the fags. Mr President, I would like to We also have large withdrawals. Then I am thinking of Akademiska Hus, which we have discussed earlier this year in this House, and SJ. They're corporations where the government picks up money. Such things also matter, how much you take and what your mission is. At the same time, we have a housing policy where more needs to be built, and SJ needs to expand and renovate. You get a comprehensive picture of what it looks like if you put all these companies on the table and look at them at the same time. PerPer-Arne Håkansson was in his speech on sustainability. It started under the previous government. I am pleased that the government is now building on this. It is an important part of future companies to look at the different parts that make them modern companies for the future, for the people, for the state and for all of us.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-106	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by talking a little bit about the companies that the Swedish state owns in whole or in part. It's 49 companies. When you ask people if they know how much ownership the state has when it comes to companies, it appears that not so many are aware that there are so many companies. Together, these companies employ around 163,000 people, and they represent large values. Together, they have approximately SEK 460 billion in value – that's quite a lot of money. The majority of state-owned companies operate in competitive markets in a wide variety of areas. It is no secret that the Center Party and other alliance parties say that the role of the state should not normally be to own and run companies, but we think that the state should set out the framework and rules for business and business. There is a built-in problem of state ownership in essence. It is that the state has two roles, i.e. sitting on two chairs at the same time, both as a legislator and as a company owner. As several have pointed out earlier in the pulpit, the state is a major shareholder and will also be a major shareholder for the foreseeable future. It is therefore important that the companies are run in a long-term, professional, value-creating and sustainable manner. In addition, several of the companies have important social assignments, where the focus is not only on the economy but also on other benefits for society. It is also important to point out that when operating in a competitive market, state companies must operate on market terms in order to ensure effective competition. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and also Per-Per-Arne Håkansson have clearly reviewed the report we are talking about today, namely the report by the Swedish National Audit Office on risks in the state-owned companies. It is good that we agree on this issue. I think it is important for the government to come up with a comprehensive picture of the risks in the large corporate portfolio. These are 49 wholly owned companies, and although we can read company reports or go to general meetings and read us to very much, I think in all honesty that most people in here feel that the time is not always sufficient to understand 49 wholly owned and partly owned companies and also make analyses of the risks that exist. It is therefore a good thing that the government will hopefully leave a combined picture of risks in the government portfolio. I would like to mention two points raised by Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. It is important how the government handles withdrawals from the state companies. They're not dairy cows. They have a lot of money. I am thinking, for example, of an additional withdrawal from SJ of 1.7 billion last year. SJ is a company that has quite large investments that they should make in terms of maintenance but also other investments in, for example, the machinery fleet. Then you can start thinking. When the government withdraws 1.7 billion, it may have a negative impact on the company in relation to these issues. I think you'd have to think one or two laps around it. Another question is Akademiska Hus, where 6.5 billion were collected. Given how much housing and other things we need to build in Sweden, not least for students, the question is whether it is really the right location. Is there some kind of risk of spending that much money in dividends? Having said that, I would like to support the Committee's position on the National Audit Office's report. I would also like to endorse the Special Opinion of the Alliance on our principal view of state ownership of companies.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-117	Mr President, people who are currently leaving, colleagues and officials! We discuss the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's management of risks in state-owned companies. The Swedish National Audit Office has submitted an audit report on risks in the state-owned companies. The answer to the Swedish National Audit Office in the letter submitted by the Government is to react as parties and members. We will give our view on the management of measures and responses. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that, in recent years, state-owned companies have carried out or planned to carry out investments and acquisitions associated with risks – investments that in several cases have had negative consequences for the value of state assets and dividends for the state. It would be wrong for me not to mention Nuon in this context. Mr President, I would like to According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the government should take a more active role in the governance of the state companies in terms of risks and risk management. On the basis of that conclusion, the following recommendations are made to the Government: The Government should draw up clear guidelines for the boards of state-owned companies on risk management. The guidelines should be decided by the general meetings in order to become legally binding on the companies. The government should monitor the functioning of the board work of state-owned companies in terms of risk management. The follow-up should take into account developments in this area and the characteristics of well-functioning Board work on risk management. The Government should develop its tools so that information on risks and consequences can be updated and compiled on an ongoing basis. The Government should regularly compile information on the risks and consequences of the state-owned companies in order to obtain a comprehensive picture of the risks in the state-owned company portfolio. This overall picture should also be presented to the Riksdag. Well, what does the government intend to do with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations that tools should be developed so that information on risks and consequences can be updated and compiled on an effective and effective basis? The government may think that this is a good thing and that it should be implemented. These must be compiled and reported to the Riksdag on a regular basis. About that, the government's reasoning. As regards the other recommendations, the Government does not agree with what is said about the division of responsibilities between the Board and the owner. Of course, there are always risks also in owning companies, but what is important, according to the Left Party, when making investments or investments that may involve risks, is to decide who wins if the investment bears fruit. If the investment is to provide jobs and contribute to the long-term development of society, we can imagine initiatives that are risky or initiatives where pay off time is in the longer term. What we cannot imagine are risky investments where the idea is to make profits in the short term and where the dividends collected by the state are used to levy taxes on the wealthy. We can't imagine that. State-owned companies can act as an excellent driver in social development, especially in the case of investments that aim to produce long-term results or in projects where the market does not think the returns are sufficiently high. Then, with a bit of bitter aftertaste, this has been experienced. In my municipality of residence, for example, the state gives cold hands when it comes to helping with the wintering of an enrichment plant, which is a must if a mining operation is to be able to get started at all again. But some venture capitalists apparently count differently. The help now seems to come that way, but it can be that way sometimes. Nothing is as simple as thinking in black or white. The left-wing view is that the state can and must own companies. Then these should be handled with care, and the state should act as an active owner. I am a little surprised when I read to some of the views of the bourgeois parties that the state should not own or run a company, as has just been heard in the debate. In this context, I would like to develop my view of state ownership of companies, and I do so, of course, on the basis of our specific opinion. I believe that state ownership needs to be increased and developed in order for democratic decisions to be able to control the development of society. The state must be an active owner of its companies and ensure through ownership directives that the companies are used to support technology development, drive environmental and climate work and create employment. In addition to the ownership directives, state ownership policy and ownership coordination are important instruments for the state to be an active owner. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the ownership policy is not legally binding on the boards of the state companies as it is not adopted by the general meeting. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office's review suggests that the Boards and their Chairman nevertheless perceive the ownership policy as governing when clarifications have been made in the ownership policy of the owner's expectations of the companies' work with sustainable entrepreneurship. As a result, the companies are working more actively on these issues. It is positive that the ownership policy is perceived as governing, but in the light of the Swedish National Audit Office's finding, I believe that another order around the ownership policy may need further consideration. Finally, with regard to ownership coordination, I would like to point out that it is positive that this is now done in writing. However, I am critical of the fact that ownership coordination is described as an opportunity for companies to coordinate their views with the representatives of the owner. In cases where there is no consensus, I believe that the government as an entire owner and majority shareholder should own the decision regarding important strategic considerations for the company.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-137	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has presented a report with recommendations to the Government regarding this by having a more active role in the governance of the state companies in terms of risks and risk management. Every year there is a flood of annual reports, and I have ventured to bring three luns here to somehow illustrate what we are talking about here today. Almi addresses financial, strategic and operational risks. Each individual has its own important parts. Financial risks are, of course, related to credit, creditworthiness tests, investment risks and such things, since Almi is involved in capital and business advice. Strategic risks are, of course, different forms of external risks such as economic activity, customer behaviour, political decisions and so on. Operational risks take all companies in different ways, and it is in the three business areas risk capital, loans and advice that Almi conducts its business. The annual report for Almi presents about half a page of what is considered important risks. But in the annual report of Akademiska Hus, which is also a state-owned company, there is a whole chapter on risk and risk management. There are a variety of areas that could create these risks. In addition to the areas mentioned, which were also mentioned by Almi, Akademiska Hus writes about an area called legal risks. It concerns ethical positions, which I too may find interesting. The third example is RISE Research Institutes of Sweden AB. First and foremost, it addresses the risks of internal control activity. Over the years, I have been on various control committees. It is in a way more responsible for seeing both the activity and the economy of the above-mentioned activities. There are no external risks here, but one looks at an internal control system. Then we come to something that I would particularly like to point out and which I am very surprised that the Swedish National Audit Office does not address in this context. We are talking about the fact that there are many state-owned companies in their own right, 49 of them. But we can also look at how many subsidiaries and businesses the respective state companies have. It should very much be the subject of the Swedish National Audit Office's review. Is this really consistent with what we in Parliament think they should do? In many cases, I am rather hesitant. In the case of RISE, there are two large subsidiaries. One in turn has six subsidiaries, the other about ten. They don't look at it at all. I find that very interesting. That, moreover, one of them is located in Copenhagen and another in Trondheim, that is, beyond the borders of the country, may have a reasonable explanation. But I can still find it interesting to know, because it is our tax money that goes to these areas and the companies. As I said, the Swedish National Audit Office does not say anything about this. But if you now seek – and say so to the government – a better coordination of risk management and the development of tools for continuous updating and compiling information on risks and consequences, you should really go deeper and look also at the subsidiaries. As we have also said earlier in debates on state-owned companies – even I myself belong to those who said so – it would have been desirable if the annual accounts had looked similar, so that they could be compared among themselves. The state is the group. With the common ownership directives and policies that exist, one might think that it would have been easier for us MPs and others to look up and compare not only how to assess the risks, as in this case, but also how to compile the activities for the year. Then it needs to look about the same. With those words, Mr President, we support the recommendations of the National Audit Office and the committee's proposals in the report.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-147	Mr President, I would like to Increased legal certainty in the unitary patent system is the title of the report we are debating. That is also the title of a bill, on which we agree and agree. However, this is also a motion for a resolution on all issues relating to intellectual property. There may be some differences between the parties, and that is where I will try to dwell. Let me first say something about the importance of intangible assets. It has proved to be extremely important both for jobs and for the economy in Sweden. As much as 30% of our jobs come from companies that are heavy on intellectual property. As much as 40 per cent of Sweden's economy, of Sweden's bnp, comes from companies that rely on intellectual property assets. It may concern patents, trademark issues, design protection and copyright issues. It is precisely with regard to copyright that there are differences between parties. Otherwise, at least on the basis of this report, we seem to agree reasonably. As far as copyright is concerned, piracy is the major problem we need to overcome. It is at its worst, Mr President, when it comes to the film industry. There's the big challenge. About a year ago, a study came from the company Mediavision, which looked at how widespread piracy is in Sweden and compared to other Nordic countries. We're the worst in the league. Piracy is at its highest in Sweden. According to this survey – I had hoped that there would be more studies to rely on – it is as much as 32% of Swedes who watch a film or TV program every month that comes from an illegal source. 32% is equivalent to 2.3 million people. On average, it's about four or five movies you watch. As a result, 800 million SEK will be lost for the industry and for the employees of cultural and creative industries. It affects the film industry in particular. If you are to put that figure in relation to something, you can say that 800 million SEK is twice as much as the state spends in the budget on state film policy. If we can get to grips with this problem, then a lot of resources are added to scriptwriters, actors, directors and producers, to the whole industry, which is of course also good for Swedish culture and the Swedish film. How, then, are we to deal with this problem? Basically, we have three different tools in the toolbox, as I see it. The first is communicative action, which can be done by the state in the form of authorities and the like as well as by the industry. It is about communicating to people that downloading or streaming from an illegal source is not acceptable. Today it has become almost socially acceptable. The second tool is that the industry itself takes action and develops business in such a way as to make it more attractive to choose the legal alternatives instead of the illegal ones. The third is the legislative tool. That is what we are responsible for here, and we need to use it to tackle the problem. I don't think we can remove any of these tools. Self-regulatory efforts must be made in the industry. You have to look at communication. And here in Parliament we need to think about legislation that can meet this challenge. Where, then, is the dividing line between the Alliance and the other parties? Simply put, the Alliance wants more. We really want to tackle the problem and we have a number of different proposals that we believe would do so. Other parties refer to ongoing work and court proceedings. But the Alliance wants more. For this reason, Mr President, I support the Alliance's reservation in paragraph 4.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-157	Mr President, I would like to Does it matter for jobs and growth in Sweden that our innovators and companies can protect their intangible assets through unitary patent protection in the EU and that a unified patent court is established, which will reduce costs, simplify management and create greater legal certainty? Of course it will be good for Sweden and the jobs in Sweden, because the link between patent law, innovation and growth is very great. Swedish prosperity has largely been built up through pioneering innovations that have often become export successes. Last night I read a report from the Reform Institute describing in which environments 100 of Sweden's greatest innovations of all time have arisen. I'll share some of these, not all 100. I would like to mention the respirator, the pacemaker, Losec, carbonated mineral water – from 1775, not exactly any new invention – rearward-facing baby car seats, the Coca Cola bottle, dry milk, screw propeller, milk separator, wrench, milk machine, electric welding, seat belt, telephone phone, Skype, Spotify, the first mobile computer game in the world from 1960, NMT, GSM and Bluetooth. On that list but which I have not written on my paper I remember that there were two odd things, namely polkagris and Västerbottensost. How to protect them I don't know, but maybe you can. Are we living on old merit? No, we don't! Sweden still delivers many innovations, and Sweden is high when innovative countries are listed in various international surveys. In order for Sweden as a country to remain at the forefront of innovation, a well-functioning intellectual property policy is needed that stimulates research and encourages innovation activities, product development and cultural creation. Small and medium-sized enterprises often lack the resources available to large companies to protect their intangible assets and therefore need better and more extensive public support for these companies. If Sweden is to be able to compete in a global world with high-quality jobs, it is important that innovative companies' intangible assets are exploited. Mr President, I would like to Today we live in an increasingly digitised world, and technology has changed the conditions for creative industries and innovators operating there. But the legislation has not always been in line with developments. Piracy and illicit distribution of copyrighted works adversely affects authors and creative industries. Investigating copyright legislation in order to create technology-neutral legislation is therefore very important. It is also important for society to mark against those who choose to violate property rights and to steal the works of others for economic purposes. Theft is theft whether it's physical possessions or intangible assets. The fact that the Swedish Patent and Registration Office has been commissioned to inform the public in order to protect copyright and reduce copyright infringement in the digital environment is welcome. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I support the Alliance's reservation in paragraph 4 of the report.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-165	Mr President, I would like to On Monday I was at Konserthuset in Stockholm. It's not often I go there, but this time it was special. I was especially invited because a world event was on G. For the first time, a blind fluteist would be involved in playing with the Philharmonic, that is to say, in a symphony orchestra. How can you do that when you're blind and can't follow the conductor's different ways of showing the musicians how to play at a pace? That has always been the question. Here we got to be part of that she who has been blind since she was incredibly small, a talented fluteist, a Chinese woman who has moved to Sweden and received special flute lessons from a musician in the Philharmonic Orchestra, got to play in an orchestra after they both had long thought about how it would be done. Thanks to the fact that there were some who believed in the idea and who could find an inventor who was good at electronics, mechanics and computer programming, the situation has been solved so that with the help of sensors the woman, the fluteist, can sense movements from the conductor's tact stick. Her joy when she had been involved in playing her first piece of the concert cannot be described. The audience was incredibly moved. I don't think there was anyone sitting at the concert who could say that you didn't feel that this was something very special. This is a Swedish invention that has now been patented so that more disabled people will have the chance to practice their musicality at the professional level. This is such an amazing example of what talented inventors we have in Sweden, innovators, who deserve to be part of the secular world and seek patents for their inventions. We Christian Democrats therefore welcome the enhanced cooperation within 26 EU Member States on unitary patent protection and the creation of a patent court next year. It will make it much easier for inventors and innovators both cost-effectively and administratively. Until now, the cost of applying for patents in Sweden alone has been 30 000 – 100 000 SEK. After all, you usually have to have the help of a patent lawyer in order to be able to fill out the forms properly so that they do not come back, and then it takes even longer. Should you then go outside the country, there has been a cost either per country or per region that has been at 10 000 – 200 000 per year to maintain the patent. Everyone can understand that for a newly started company or for those who have the ideas but have not even started their companies, these are enormous sums that cannot be supported in today's project jungle. Of course, there is a lot of project funding to apply in Sweden and within the EU, but not for the kind of costs that are still so important for the protection of a new product or service. We have just had Eurovision in Sweden. We know that you can't play a song there before the competition itself has been. The song must not be published in that way, and the song can simply be washed. We've seen that this year. Such systems are therefore similar for patent applications. Since the patent rules provide that the product or service must not be made public in the sense that it is made known what the patent is made up of in detail, it is of course also difficult to obtain the means to apply for the patent. Investing e wants to know what they invest in. In the scientific community, it is a merit to have an article published in a famous journal or paper for a congress. This may be a prerequisite for further funding as a researcher. But it does not work either if patents are to be applied for. Then the content has already been revealed. This is a difficulty in itself. The proposal does not solve the problem, but it needs further attention as the protection of intellectual property rights and patents needs long-term financing in order to function fully. Mr President, I would like to Why are IP and IPR important? It is, of course, to create exclusivity. Patents, design protection, trademarks and copyrights are included in IPR. IP is licensing, distribution, collaboration, service and confidentiality. It is about trade secrets, know-how, which are important to preserve within the company. It may be part of the business plan. It can be a source code, process for production, which materials are used and so on. Raising awareness and the use of IP and IPR as a business tool requires information from relevant authorities, such as PRV and Vinnova. But incubators, science centres and other business advisors also need up-to-date knowledge of the importance of doing right from the start in the field. In our joint reservation from the Alliance, we have particularly highlighted the creative industries that are growing faster in Sweden and have received a lot of attention in recent years. They have achieved great success both in Sweden and abroad, including music and computer games and not least the film industry, as my colleague Jörgen Warborn so rightly pointed out. When it comes to piracy, piracy, which actually covers a larger area, that is to say, misuse of films, for example, which have been posted online without licences, the losses to copyright holders are, of course, enormous. We should be aware that this will ultimately affect the labour market if companies in the industry do not earn the money needed to hire more people – as could otherwise have been done for the money. There is therefore a need for better statistics and also for a review of the penalties that may be necessary to tackle the type of crime that is actually piracy. Otherwise, I and the Christian Democrats feel it is incredibly welcome that, as I began by saying, a uniform law is given throughout the European Union. I believe that it benefits the innovation system both in Sweden and in the other EU countries.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-182	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Sweden is a strong innovation country. We heard Peter Helander list a number of well-known Swedish products and inventions that have benefited people around the world. In a highly competitive environment, we need to further focus on our system to provide inventors, creators and innovators with improved opportunities to develop their ideas into viable innovations for further development. Unity of patent protection for the EU has been in demand and discussed at many levels for some time. Sweden is the country that has driven such development in many ways. The proposal we have today to take a position on is a direct result of the government's work on this front. It will make it easier, cheaper and more legally secure to invest and grow in the EU. I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report to support the proposal. At the same time, I would like to call for a rejection of the motions and reservations put forward in the area of intellectual property. The legislative amendments proposed in the bill complement the adaptation of Swedish rights to the unitary patent system adopted by the Riksdag in 2014. In this context, the amendments address legitimate and important subjects, but the committee, in its replies here, refers to an ongoing work and the previous position that led to it. Government, parliament and authorities do much to improve regulations and raise awareness of them. The Swedish Patent and Registration Office, which is one of the oldest and most affluent bodies in Sweden, together with Vinnova, has an important and driving role in developing the knowledge and understanding of intangible assets among public actors and the business community as well as the general public. At the same time, we should be clear that not everything can be handled through the public. Whatever safety nets are designed and whatever measures and knowledge measures are implemented, they cannot replace private initiatives. Industry, of course, also has its own responsibility for its value creation. On the other hand, an ongoing and life-giving dialogue between society, companies and academia is important. This drives the development in order for Sweden to continue to stand strong in global competition. The ability to translate inventions or creative creation is of great value for development and growth. As mentioned earlier, Swedish competitiveness has its base in the ideas that have been shaped and translated into practical action in the field of creativity and technology. When the government took office, it stated on the first day of work that this is a priority area. The Prime Minister set up an Innovation Council with hand-picked representatives from the state, industry and academia to overall push forward issues. That work is now under way. Strengthening Sweden's innovation power is a priority for the government, which is welcomed. However, in the globalised competitive environment and digitalised everyday life we live in, innovation is facing constant challenges. I assume that each of us has received the writing from one of Sweden's leading corporate groups, 100-year-olds this year, with the title The quote comes from Marcus Wallenberg the Elder in the 1940s, but who can't recognize himself in this even today? A few weeks ago, the Committee on Economic Affairs organised a public hearing on piracy here in Parliament. It also touched on patent and trademark issues, even though the role of copyright and how we can deal with extensive piracy was the dominant point at that particular time. There are many concerns about these issues. The police, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the European Commission, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and industry representatives of certain vulnerable industries participated with testimony from their everyday lives and the work carried out in each context. For my part, I have participated in meetings and seminars directed by, among others, the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Swedish Inventors' Association and the like, where these issues have been highlighted. Consciousness is high and commitment is great. I think we are catching it up as we are currently able to do, but it is a work in progress. In this context, a report presented by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise some time ago can also be mentioned. A large part – I think it was 80 – 90 percent – of the companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, OMX Nasdaq, consider themselves to be subject to pate nt, trademark or copyright infringement, so of course it is a big problem. In many cases, there is deep knowledge and also the resources of larger companies to act to defend their patents and also to pursue legal proceedings if so called for. But greater popular support and awareness of the situation would be worth investing in, and this is now being done through PRV's and Vinnova's mission. Small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, need this knowledge, which is why we need as robust and legally secure a system as possible. It is also from this point of view that we shall see the European patent system. Today, the holder of a European patent must validate and maintain the patent in each country separately. It is perceived as expensive, complicated and uncertain. When the unitary patent protection is introduced, it is sufficient to submit a single application. This will allow a European patent to be maintained in almost the whole of the EU – 26 Member States. We should also be aware that the Swedish Government is working at an international level to harmonise legal certainty rules on patentability. As far as the copyright acquis is concerned, as has been mentioned here, a great deal of work is under way to modernise it. Sweden is also actively involved in this work. The aim is to achieve wide access to creative content worldwide, a continued high level of protection for rightholders and a good balance with other interests, such as education and research. The Minister of Justice has also explained that the issue of tightening up criminal law in the area of copyright offences is now under consideration. There is good reason to stress that there is a high tempo and a number of proposals which will be put forward in this area as time goes by. In view of the strong expressions used by Warborn here, I cannot help but point out that there was a previous government which indicated that we should not criminalise a whole generation of young people, for example, because they wanted to wait with tougher grips against piracy. I would say that we are now seeing the truth of this, and it is important that we act vigorously to curb what is criminal behaviour online and against copyright and such things. It is clear, however, that it requires a balance between legality tests and consumer interests. I believe that, in parallel, we should place the emphasis on knowledge and education for the public.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-203	Mr President, I would like to The difference in the Committee on Economic Affairs between the Alliance and the other parties is that you are prepared to wait before taking new measures against piracy. In the meantime, money is being lost that could have gone to employees working in the cultural and creative companies. Tax revenue also disappears, which could have gone to school, health care and care. Instead, the money goes to criminals who provide people with illegal material. You write that you do not see any reason to make any more efforts, but wait for the ongoing work and court proceedings. This is how the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs formulate themselves. At the same time, however, a united Committee on Culture, including the Social Democrats in the committee, urgently wants to come up with proposals for the further work on prosecuting the illegal circulation of films. Why are the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs holding back when your colleagues in the Committee on Culture urgently want to come up with proposals to prosecute the illegal circulation of films?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-206	Mr President, I would like to The great news of the hearing we had in the Committee on Economic Affairs was precisely the Minister of Justice's clear statement. Great economic values are at stake, and so we want to review the sanctions for this type of crime, and we are opening the way for serious crime to be introduced in this area. It is indeed a clear indication that things are happening in this area. We have also heard from some organisations that have worked for several years to raise these issues without receiving a response. Efforts are being made for a new Swedish legislation on brands, and there will be a new film policy, which counteracts illegal film management. We know that there are also round tables at the Department of Culture with representatives of creative industries. The Round Table itself is a way of creating additional knowledge in order to be able to act in this area. I would say that this government has achieved a great deal in a short time to tackle this problem, and more is under way.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-209	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, the Socialist colleagues in the Committee on Culture want to go further. As late as Tuesday, it was decided that you want a plan that goes further. My question therefore remains: why are the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs fighting for nothing to be done? I agree that what the Minister said at the public hearing is very good. I myself have had several interpellation debates with the Minister and asked written questions. I was very pleased that the Minister actually agreed with what we in the Moderates have put forward in our committee motion to introduce gross copyright infringement. I also think it is a good thing that the round table talks are under way, and I have had several debates with the Minister for Culture. Again, your colleagues in the Committee on Culture want to go a little further, and so do I. Why do the Social Democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs not want that?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-212	Mr President, I would like to We go very far, I would say. Several efforts have been made to raise awareness and to increase cooperation and dialogue with the industry and also to create knowledge and participation in these issues. It is interesting that Jörgen Warborn is so active on this issue right now, because one view I often face when I meet the industry representatives is that nothing happened during the eight years that the bourgeoisie had government power. But now things are happening all the time, and we are active both at EU level and in domestic policy to deal with the situation. So my message is that there is a lot of work being done, and there is an awareness and a commitment to this.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-215	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to talk about the importance of intellectual property in different sectors and areas. Intellectual property is a legal term for the laws and regulations that protect artists and literary works as well as technical solutions, industrial design, design and brands. Many who follow the debate are probably familiar with some aspects of the subject, but the concept of intellectual property is broad and ranges from protecting technologically advanced industrial solutions to protecting, for example, Sia or David Guettas's latest song. Intellectual property rights can therefore be divided into several parts, such as patent protection, design protection, copyright and trademark protection. There are also a variety of sub-groups, such as related rights, industrial protection, design protection, geographical indications of origin and the protection of trade secrets. A report from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise 2015 shows that many of Sweden's largest companies are exposed to intellectual property infringement and piracy and that the problem has escalated over the past five years. The report shows that all the companies interviewed have been subject to intellectual property infringement. 73 percent say it has increased over the past five years, and 80 percent say that they believe it will continue to increase over the next five years. A large majority also feel that the state's efforts to combat IPR infringement and piracy have not been sufficient and that more needs to be done. One conclusion of the study is that IPR issues need to be given greater political attention in general. The authors point out that work on piracy and other types of intellectual property infringements needs to be more coordinated at EU level as well as between the EU, the US and Japan. China was identified by all companies as the largest country of origin for pirated products. Mr President, I would like to Intellectual property is a very broad and complex area where the different sub-groups, industries and size of companies are affected differently depending on global agreements or local agreements as well as on where the infringement takes place and by whom they are done. We therefore need to be humbled in the face of the challenges ahead and try to solve one problem at a time. It is important to discuss the importance of copyright, challenges and solutions. On the other hand, we note that 71 per cent of Swedes currently use legal film and television services such as Netflix, HBO, Viaplay and SVT Play. Furthermore, we note that 29% use illegal services. Among those under the age of 30, the share is 61 per cent. 280 million films and television programmes are viewed annually through illegal services in Sweden. Streaming is more widespread than file sharing: 19% stream and 17% download illegally. The users of illegal services see every third film or every third television programme illegally – on average four films and seven television programmes a month. Six out of ten think it is wrong to use illegal services, and four out of ten use illegal services even though they think it is wrong. 43% believe that the use of illegal services should be reduced in cooperation with internet operators. Four out of ten believe that the best way to promote the production of Swedish film and television is to limit illegal viewing. Mr President, I would like to Here we can clearly see that most people think that d et is wrong to illegally download or stream movies and comics. But why do they do so when there are so many different legal streaming options? Because the offer needs to be improved and because you need to have several different types of streaming services to get a good offer. When you talk to young people who are illegally downloading or streaming, many say that if the supply had been better among the legal streaming services in terms of speed, new material and more gathered in one service, they would have stopped the illegal downloading and the illegal streaming services. Today, streaming services are relatively cheap, and image quality and user-friendliness are good. If you have the full range of new films and series it becomes much more comfortable and more time efficient to be legal. If we look at the music industry we can see Spotify as a very successful example. Who downloads music today? With a competitive and legal display window with a wide range, you can avoid much of the intellectual property infringement. From a political point of view, we will of course create the conditions for this by being tougher against illegal streaming services and download pages. We therefore need several international agreements on this. But we also need to recognise that there is a shortage of resources and complexity in this area. The Swedish Democrats believe that legislation needs to be reviewed, and some kind of cross-block approach needs to be developed to reduce infringements of copyright and intellectual property rights in general. In order to reach a solution, it is necessary for both the state and private actors to work together.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-227	Mr President, I would like to In the Moderate Committee motion, we say that we want to investigate the introduction of serious copyright offences. If it were in place, it would mean that the police and prosecutors would have even more opportunities – or tools – to catch the criminals who make money illegally spreading films. The government has now joined the Moderate line. The Swedish Democrats have done so – that is good. But yesterday I read on the website of the Swedish Democrats. It says: As far as the issue of the dissemination of copyrighted material is concerned, the Swedish Democrats stand up for both property rights and copyright. However, we do not believe that illegal file sharing should be a priority for the police. How can the Swedish Democrats be in favour of the introduction of serious copyright offences but then not want the police to work on those issues?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-230	Mr President, I would like to What we mean is: We don't want the police to spend resources chasing petty criminals, small boys, like file parts and streaming. Because there will never be the resources to do that. We'd rather have a harder grip on those pages where you stream movies and the pages where you can do downloads. But then it is not enough that we only legislate in Sweden, because these pages and services will be available in other countries. We need global agreements. Normally we are critical of the EU, but in this case the EU can be a good option to have as a major party negotiating with the other major parties. We need to limit the sides of the whole world. If we limit only in Sweden it will not solve any problems.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-231	Mr President, I would like to I thought that Johan Nissinen described the problem of piracy very well in his speech. However, I note that it is not being followed up all the way and does not want to solve it all the way. I would like to repeat the question I put to the Social Democrats in the past. The difference between the Alliance in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the other parties in the Committee on Economic Affairs is that we in the Alliance want to go a little ahead. We really want to solve the problem of piracy. You have joined the other parties and say: We will wait a while. There's a lot of processes going on right now. At the same time, the verige democrats in the Committee on Culture have said – and they agree with this line – that proposals should be drawn up urgently for the continued work of prosecuting the illegal distribution of films. Why do the so-called verige democrats in the Committee on Economic Affairs not agree with their colleagues in the Committee on Culture?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-233	Mr President, I would like to We share a common line with our members of the Committee on Culture. We want a stronger grip on this. But you can't chase these little boys. You can't run with a baton and I can't run with a baby. It's not working. You have to stop those who distribute this. Then you have to have a little bigger global agreements. We can all sit here and agree that what we are going to do, but if the other countries do not have the same legislation, the players move to those countries, and the download will continue. One cannot chase the small boys who download, but we must have greater solutions. We agree with the culture shot on this. As our members of the Committee on Culture have said, Norway has found a good model for this in the music industry. We want to encourage private actors to look at it and see if they can implement it even when it comes to downloading movies. The private market has the solutions to make supply better so that downloading is not attractive.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-235	Mr President, I would like to I support all the reservations of the Moderates and the Alliance, but claim for the winning approval of time only to reservation 1. Winter 2009/10 carried a heavy blizzard through Sweden and put great pressure on our transport system. I myself was stuck on a train outside Hallsberg for eight hours. With an exhausted restaurant where even chocolate cakes were distributed to hungry travelers and with toilets that were overcrowded and closed, it was not exactly a pleasant experience. When we passengers did not get information about what was wrong or when the error was expected to be solved and no compensation could reach us, the situation was, of course, despaired. There were many of us who were stuck on that train and on other trains that night. Of course, no system can withstand the worst of the internees, but we learned a lot that year. The Alliance government and then Minister of Infrastructure Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd brought together the various actors of the railway to improve both information to passengers and cooperation between the Swedish Transport Administration on the one hand and SJ and other operators on the other. The Alliance government worked intensively to bring about better cooperation in the system but also to overcome the maintenance deficiencies that were evident. However, it is a major and widespread problem. Turning it over overnight is not easy. We can still see that many people out there associate our railway with cancelled trains, chaos and worries. On closer examination one can surely say that the Swedish railway works quite well. Most trains go on time, and of course the headlines don't get big. However, delays are still too common. This is due, among other things, to the fact that rail traffic has increased radically over the last 20 years. But it is also because we have not maintained the railways at the rate we should have. It is expensive to build rail, and many politicians unfortunately prefer to cut ties rather than maintain the system we have. It generates few votes to invest in maintenance and to take care of the tracks we have. But promises of a new railway route, however unprofitable, often give more voters. Against this background, the alliance government's historic effort to double the appropriations for operation and maintenance becomes even more important. That priority from the previous parliamentary term must remain. New constructions do not solve old maintenance problems. Maintenance must never become a budget regulator again. Mr President, I would like to Well-functioning rail transport with high capacity and reliability is a prerequisite for the functioning of our modern society. People and businesses should be able to feel safe taking the train. Competition on the railways has contributed to the fact that travellers now have several options to choose from. Do you want to go with SJ or MTR, for example, when you are going to Gothenburg from Stockholm? Competition has also contributed to more players taking responsibility for the maintenance that needs to be done. Research from both VTI and other experts shows that we have got more rail for money thanks to competition and liberalisation. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that the slogans that came from Stefan Löfven in the electoral movement were worrying. There was talk of renationalising maintenance, that maintenance would go back to the Finnish Transport Administration as a monopoly business. That was the way out of the railway's troubles, contrary to what the expertise came up with. I find that troubling. It's something the Löfven hasn't taken back. It would be interesting to hear the views of the government parties today. I believe that the players in our rail market need peace and quiet in order to be able to work. Threats and promises of renationalisation do not create this. Mr President, I would like to There is much we can do to develop the Swedish railway. The Alliance wants to remove barriers for new entrants to enter by reviewing path allocation and by reviewing and adapting the signal system for more train types. We also believe that longer and heavier is something that is good not only for our trucks but also for our trains. Here we should adapt the rail system. There are some low-hanging fruits that neither the government nor any government agencies seem to take hold of. I can also say that European cooperation is important in this area too. Many of us believe in the importance of a strong internal market in Europe. It must also apply to our transport and to our railways. In this context, the fourth railway package is important in order to bring about market opening, where Swedish operators can operate in foreign markets and vice versa. I think that the government should act clearly to ensure that a fourth railway package is fully enforced. We have seen some shortcomings in government action in the past. I myself notified Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson to the Constitutional Committee because she had not fully complied with the mandate of the EU Board. The Government received a remark for this. The Moderates want to emphasise the importance of working towards a common market for our rail transport. In this context, the idea of a common European signalling system is wise. Ertms is basically a good project to ensure that we have a signalling system that is the same in the various European countries. It is also important to ensure that we do not get a new patchwork of national specifics, as has been the case at times in the new system. We must ensure that we have a single version and that we implement it at the same time and harmonised, not least in the Nordic countries. Mr President, I would like to The state has an important responsibility for ensuring sustainable transport development, which is based, among other things, on well-functioning rail transport. As owner, the State also has a special responsibility for SJ AB, among other things, to be able to fulfil its obligations towards Sweden's travellers. It is then of great importance that the state is a responsible owner. I think it is positive that the government expresses the utmost importance that the companies owned by the state are actively and professionally managed, with value creation as an overall goal. But then words must become action. During the previous year we unfortunately saw that SJ had to act as some form of budget regulator when Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson needed to find billions to unfunded e grant increases. Record pile 2 billion was taken out of SJ. Thus, in one year, the Red-Green government took twice as much as the Alliance government did in total during its eight years. Both the government's treatment of SJ as a cash cow and the Left Party's proposal to give SJ a social mission is bad for the effectiveness of SJ as a state-owned company. I would like to emphasise that it is important for Sweden's railways to be maintained in order to create a robust, safe and secure railway system. But it takes more than money. We need to have effective governance in place – not least by our authorities. This applies above all to the Swedish Transport Administration, which ultimately runs the industry. The funds allocated must also be used effectively. At the end of last year, Gunnar Alexandersson presented his major report on the organization of the railways. The proposals in the investigation were many, and many we can probably agree on across the block. One conclusion was that maintenance should not be renationalised. I'm glad. Other conclusions were that the Swedish Transport Administration had to get a better idea of what the facility looks like out there, and they had to get a national maintenance plan. You might think there should already be, but it doesn't. However, I cannot see that the government is acting in accordance with these many and wise conclusions. I can't even see that there's a referral procedure going on. In a situation where public finances are under great pressure, I think it is ignorant not to pursue the conclusions presented. If the Social Democrats still believe that, as Gustav Möller said, every squandered tax chandelier is a theft from the people, Alexandersson's conclusions should be taken into account and an effective organisation and control of the Finnish Transport Administration in place. Mr President, I would like to The government's failure to take on board Mr Alexandersson's conclusions underlines my concern that the red-greens are not willing to look at the structural problems of the railways. It continues to live in the error that if we only trump each other in millions of investments on the railways, the problems will be solved. But it's not that simple. Today we see that the money does not reach the tracks. Not only does the government turn a blind eye to structural problems in the labour market and the housing market, but it is also turning a blind eye to them in the rail market. Difficult decisions will be postponed to the future. The Moderates don't promise everything to everyone, but we promise to turn every stone around to make the railroad work better. We will focus on getting a functioning facility on site. We promise that maintenance will never again become a budget regulator. We promise to care for the system we have. To nurture and expand it is A and O. In addition, we promise better governance. We promise to push the government to get better control of the Finnish Transport Agency and the railway in place, because it is the government's responsibility to get such control of our authorities in place. Sweden's travellers and companies have waited long enough. Now we need a railway that can be trusted.
i-6W9ppZgkEqt4FQ5xkEKSV1	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, Minister Per Bolund and Minister Åsa Regnér. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-260	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister Damberg. Sick leave is increasing again, and the government proposes that employers co-finance their employees' sick leave further. The proposal is for an employer to pay 25% of the sickness benefit for employees who have been on sick leave for more than 90 days. The Government's proposal has received severe criticism, both from SKL and from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. It is mainly in the public sector that sick leave is increasing. There, sickness rates are higher than in the private sector. There is a great risk that new jobs will be reduced and that this will make the situation of the already vulnerable person more difficult. This is particularly true for those with a long history of illness or some form of disability. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs believe that the government's co-financing proposal will adversely affect companies' tendency to employ?
i-XiqYbPagYEZUg97JiMUqAJ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Lotta Finstorp! In Sweden we have a long tradition of agreements between unions and employers, which has produced very good results. Part of the issue of reducing the number of sick leave and working more preventive is that in the Swedish labour market there are more agreements that address these issues. The Government has appointed a process manager to maintain contacts with the parties to see what initiatives the parties can take to reverse developments and to ensure that sick leave is reduced. The government has also put forward a proposal for a change of health – if a solution to the labour market is not found. The proposal reduces the employer's contribution for businesses. Calculations of how it would beat show that it would benefit, in particular, private companies and disadvantage the municipal sector. The long sick leave is available in many municipalities and county councils. It is a system based on the fact that costs will not increase overall. The protection of small enterprises and the protection of vulnerable groups in the labour market.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-269	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday the latest numbers came from Försäkringskassan. The sickness benefit rate for April amounted to 10.7 days, which is 0.9 days more than in April 2015. The numbers don't lie. We all know that progress is going the wrong way. In what way does the Minister of Economic Affairs think that the government's proposal will lower the thresholds for people with a medical history and who are far from the labour market to get into work?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-271	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing is that the government has presented a whole programme, with new objectives but also many concrete efforts, to reduce the number of sick leave. It is a work that is carried out with full force. Some are about ensuring that the social partners do more in preventive work. There we now have a process leader in place, who can bring together and hold discussions with both the employers' side and trade union representatives to see what initiatives exist. Health exchange is one way of reducing employers' contributions for all businesses and favouring those who do the right thing.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-274	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg. At many municipally owned airports around the country, there are currently notes in the toilets with information about telephone numbers you can call if you are at the airport to travel from Sweden and be married against your will. The idea is that the police should be able to escort the girl to protection from anyone who wants to marry her away so that social services can quickly be connected. The issue of introducing these notes also at Arlanda has been highlighted by the Liberals but also by a variety of politicians in Sigtuna, including the Minister for Economic Affairs' party colleagues in Sigtuna, where Arlanda is located. The owner of Arlanda Airport, Swedavia, thinks that the proposal is worthy but believes that decisions cannot be made without the advice of the owner, that is, the state. In light of this, I wonder whether the government, as owner of Swedavia, might give the company a new ownership directive regarding putting up these notes and thus offering panic-stricken young girls a final opportunity to avoid forced marriages.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-278	Mr President, I would like to Forced marriage is prohibited in Sweden. This is an important issue that the Swedish Parliament is working extensively to combat. Not least young women should not be forced or deceived to go on holiday trips that can actually end up in a marriage that you do not feel comfortable with or want to be a part of. I very much welcome the commitment to this issue. I will readily admit that this issue has not been involved in my dialogues with Swedavia so far. But I am happy to take it with me and will ask Swedavia how they view it and why they would not be able to do something like that.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-280	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the fact that Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg also wants to review the very message in my question. Of course, it would have been better if the much bigger problem could be tackled further down, i.e. through authorities, schools, social services and so on. But I look forward to hearing from Swedavia about the minister's advances.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-282	Mr President, I would like to I would like to reiterate that it is important that we stand united on this issue in the Swedish Parliament, and that we all act in different ways to combat elements of forced marriage in our country. I'll ask Swedavia how they view it.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-285	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Mikael Damberg. The fact that threats, violence and vandalism occur in an organised way against blue light activities is not a new phenomenon. On the other hand, new policy from the Government Office to tackle the problems in real terms has shone with its absence. Will we see any proposals that are in line with what the Swedish Democrats have been asking for for a long time, namely tougher grip on those who threaten or otherwise constitute obstacles to the police, ambulance or fire department? Does the government intend to take any new measures to make it easier for these evil-minded people to be detained and detained for longer than today? I think that quite a few are beginning to ask for the policy of the Swedish Democrats in this area.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-289	Mr President, I would like to It is totally unacceptable that people who carry out society's task of both defending safety and protecting the lives and health of citizens suffer from stoning or attack when entering certain residential areas. That is something we reject completely. I know that Anders Ygeman has had a round table sitting or conference with the relevant authorities to discuss what can be done further to ensure that the staff feel safe but also to prosecute the illegal behaviour. We are prepared to see if further efforts are needed in this area. But we can see that some of the bourgeois parties, which now have very high tails in this area, chose not to tighten the penalties for this very thing during their eight years in power.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-291	Mr President, I would like to The way I see it, of course, we need more cops. There's talk about it. The Swedish Democrats have also proposed this, unlike the government. In addition to new legislation, it is also a matter of leadership. We will give the criminal stone stones two options: tighten up, or get acquainted with the state's monopoly of violence! At the latter option, it should be backed up politically and from the police leadership. Today, there is no guarantee that any of it will become a reality. We can also find out from Mikael Damberg's reply.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-294	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly important that this type of crime is prosecuted and that those who commit crimes are also prosecuted. It is central to the rule of law. The second is that we are reviewing whether legal adjustments need to be made. The third, which should not be forgotten, is that many of these suburbs also require long-term prevention. It is about making efforts socially and at school and ensuring that young people get jobs to create a different culture and a belief in the future. It is such a policy that this government is pursuing very hard, because it is such a policy that is long-term in favour of the development of these neighbourhoods.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-298	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Financial Markets and former Minister for Housing Per Bolund. The requirement of amortization will enter into force on 1 June, and we in the Center Party welcome it. We have a housing shortage, and it has given rise to galloping housing prices. This puts household indebtedness at risk of financial stability and a housing bubble. Young people find it particularly difficult to enter the housing market. After the introduction of the mortgage ceiling, it has become even more difficult for young people to enter. My question to the Government is whether he agrees that young people's ability to own their home is affected by the combination of loan ceilings and amortisation requirements and whether there is then a need to investigate a more flexible application of the mortgage ceiling, especially in the case of young people as a group on the housing market. Are there plans for such an investigation?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-303	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ola Johansson for a very important question. Of course, we need a policy that takes responsibility for the risks that exist in the financial system. This concerns, not least, risks associated with households' relatively high indebtedness. It is historically large but also large when compared to what it looks like in other countries. I am therefore very pleased that we have been able to reach broad agreement across the block on important instruments such as the mortgage ceiling and the amortisation requirement, which will enter into force on 1 June. Of course, we must also take account of the impact of the reforms. We are constantly following developments in the mortgage market. The government has an ambitious housing building programme, and we provide support for new rental apartments that will be an opportunity for young people to enter the housing market and get first housing. As far as the mortgage ceiling is concerned, Finansinspektionen is responsible for it, and Finansinspektionen is constantly assessing the effects of its reforms. We have complete confidence that Finansinspektionen will carry out an analysis of whether any changes need to be made. We have not received any such signals so far.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The difficulty for young people is to find a place to live in the place where they have chosen to move in with someone, work or study. It forces the youth to go to the black market or to stay with parents or friends. Yes, it's important to take responsibility. And we support the reforms that have been implemented. However, we note that investment aid is not yet ready and delivered. It's not even in place.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-309	Mr President, I would like to We continue to follow issues that affect both the financial market and the housing market, as they are closely linked. In particular, these issues are raised in the context of housing talks between the government and opposition parties. There too, the issue of housing saving is one of the issues that is on the table and that we are looking at. I would argue that the major initiatives taken by the government – the biggest investment in housing policy over 20 years – will be an important part of the solution. This means that we spend more than 6 billion each year on ensuring that more housing is built that young people in particular demand, that is to say, small rental apartments.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-311	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. We took over government power in a situation where the gaps and insecurity in Sweden increased. When we took over government power, we chose to start building a community. We chose investments instead of cuts and tax cuts. Now we can see that developments are starting to move in the right direction. We have a very strong development in the Swedish economy with 110 000 new jobs in the past year. The industry is growing, and more and more industries are moving back to Sweden. 2016 may be the year when more businesses move into than out of Sweden. We also have great challenges. Our most important election promise is to reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. This requires innovation in employment policy, where much is about getting SMEs into the economy, starting to grow and being able to hire. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is: how will your enhanced mission contribute to growth and more jobs, especially for new arrivals?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-315	Mr President, I would like to Jobs are perhaps the most important task of this government – to push back unemployment and reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. When we came into government, unemployment was around 8%. Now it's down to 6.9 percent. Unemployment has thus fallen sharply, and we see a sharp increase in employment in the Swedish economy. However, more initiatives will be needed, not least in the areas raised by Mattias Jonsson. As regards the question of how small and medium-sized enterprises should grow and expand and have to employ more, we have already made great efforts, not least to give small businesses better loan conditions, so that they can invest and develop their business and also go on export. The issue of the situation of newcomers in the Swedish labour market is an important issue requiring innovation from all parties. There I look forward to working with both the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and LO, both of whom have shown an interest in discussing how we can now quickly utilise the expertise that has come to Sweden.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-319	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Industry for this. I think there are two needs that need to be met here. These are industries that find it difficult to find labour and newcomers who do not enter the labour market. But it is also a question of people who are and have been far removed from the labour market. There are great opportunities for job creation here. But how can we get these ways into the labour market even more quickly for newcomers and for people who are far from the labour market?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-321	Mr President, I would like to The first is to work with the skills that people carry with them and to quickly validate and ensure that people come out to a workplace, so that they do not start the long way with the language first but can actually start working and start learning the language in place at work. There are many such good initiatives. In particular, the fast track that the government has been involved in developing together with the social partners has an impact on the supply of skills and on a fast way into the labour market. But it will require more, and I look forward to working with the partners in the Swedish labour market.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-323	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. We need to create more simple jobs, said the Prime Minister yesterday, as part of combating class divisions. Simple jobs are a typical thing that rips apart the labour market. It'll be us with jobs, and then it'll be those with simple jobs. When the right is talking about simple jobs, they mean, not surprisingly, often that it is foreign born and we in the LO collective are going to take these jobs. It is as always certain groups of people who are banished to this type of job. It worries me that we are going to do such things on the Swedish labour market. Simple jobs tend to follow a number of hardships – low wages, harsh conditions, lack of collective agreements and poor working environment – rather than fair and equal treatment in the labour market. Then my question to you, Mikael Damberg: What do you mean by simple jobs? Who do you think should do these jobs and on what terms?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-328	Mr President, I would like to Job policy is based on the fact that we need more jobs, both advanced jobs and jobs that do not require as much education. We now see that jobs are growing at a very high rate in Sweden. But we will have to succeed with more if we are to bring down unemployment even more, which we have as our ambition in Sweden. When we talk about simple jobs, it is not about lower wages. I know that there are bourgeois parties who have said that women's wages need to be reduced in order to cope with women's employment. In the election campaign, it was said that there was a need to cut young people's wages. Today, it is mainly immigrants who need lower wages. I believe in the Swedish model, where the parties settle agreements, salaries and conditions on the Swedish labour market. But I also see that both LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise are now saying that they are interested in finding new ways into the labour market for the people who have come to our country. Just as the state has now taken a great responsibility and says that we want 5 000 modern standby jobs, there are probably tasks in the private sector that should be carried out, and there are people who want to do so.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-332	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for your answer. It still seems that things that are repeated enough times by the Alliance eventually, as by chance, become S-politics – as simple jobs. I'm afraid it's not going to be as good as you seem to think it's going to be. The problem with making a difference to jobs in this way is still that those who are going to do the jobs that you have dismissed as simple jobs, no matter how you turn it around, become a lower category of workers in the labour market than others. I don't think that's right in fighting class divisions. Give people jobs instead! Isn't that better?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-334	Mr President, I would like to We need more jobs, and we need all kinds of jobs in Sweden. What really creates class divisions in a society is unemployment, and too many people go unemployed. There are still 350 000 people who go unemployed – despite the fact that we have 100 000 job vacancies. Matching the unemployed with the jobs that exist in the economy is therefore the main track for this government's employment policy, but it is also about trying to get even private companies to take responsibility for the groups that have come to Sweden recently, who may have difficulty getting in and who may not know the language as well.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-336	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. If we are to succeed in raising the learning outcomes in school and giving more students a better start in life, we need to start with the teachers. The Moderates have previously suggested that leadership, Swedish as a second language, special pedagogy and IT should be self-evident and mandatory parts of teacher education. But if we are to succeed in strengthening teachers, we must also look at the teacher-led time of teacher training. 40 years ago, teachers had on average 24 hours of teaching per week, and today more than half of teachers have less than eight hours of teaching time. We do not think this is reasonable, and we do not believe that this will enable teachers to succeed. Therefore, we invest SEK 1.2 billion in our spring exercise to increase the number of teacher-led hours in teacher training. My question to Minister Knutsson is whether she thinks it is reasonable that teachers students today only have eight hours of teacher-led teaching a week.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-340	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Stockhaus for an incredibly important issue. I shall say that I am pleased that the Moderates have now paid attention to what we have already had as a policy and put forward in several budget proposals, that is to say, that the quality of higher education needs to be improved. This applies, in particular, to those training courses that have few teacher-led hours, which include pre-school education and teacher training. The government is already investing approximately SEK 900 million during this term of office to provide opportunities for more teacher-led hours in teacher training and pre-school education, but also in the humanistic and social sciences educations. I therefore welcome your proposal.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-342	Mr President, I would like to These are important issues raised by the Government, but it is still the case that we invest 1.2 billion specifically in teacher training. There is an average of eight hours of teaching per week today. 40 years ago, it was 24 hours. It is one of the most important occupational categories if we are to increase the results in Swedish schools, and my question is still whether the Government thinks it is reasonable that they have eight hours of teacher-led teaching time a week.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-343	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the follow-up question. I would like to make it very clear that I fully agree with you, Maria Stockhaus. That is why we have the policy we have. We need to increase the number of teacher-led hours. It is about throughput, and it is about quality – not least in teacher training. However, we must also ensure that there are doctoral teachers, and I hope that the Moderates will be prepared to support proposals for more doctoral training places in teacher training. Otherwise, no more money will do you any good. We must also ensure that there are more teachers.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-345	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Regnér, and it is about the Swedish elderly care. It's good, and most people are very happy with it. It is part of the Swedish model. However, we are facing a number of challenges. We have an increased number of older people, and we simply need to meet the needs and wishes of the users with more staff. That is what is crucial for high quality and good care for the elderly – the number of staff, and good staff as well.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-347	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Sörenson for the question. Care for the elderly is indeed an important issue for our time and future, and I am genuinely pleased with the efforts made by the government in the field of personnel and staffing in the care of the elderly together with the Left Party. I am happy about it because I travel around Sweden and see how quickly the money has been used – and to what. It should be a staffing effort, but I have noticed that it makes it extremely easy to set schedules, have fewer shared tours and simply get more comrades in the workplace. It's good for the elderly, and it's good for those who work there. From the follow-up that has been carried out so far, which is preliminary, we know that 85% of the money disappeared quite quickly last year. We will have a more structured follow-up of the National Board of Health and Welfare at the end of the year, but so far the money is very much in demand. That's what we see and can follow right now.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-350	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. This sounds very positive, but it is also important that the money is really useful and used in the municipalities. One question can therefore be how many municipalities have so far applied for the funds and what the money is used for. Do we have follow-up on that?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-351	Mr President, I would like to We have a preliminary follow-up because the formal will come later. However, what we know about 2015 is that 194 municipalities in Sweden used the entire amount, that 60 municipalities spent more than half the amount and that 30 municipalities spent slightly less than half the amount. However, all municipalities except three used something, and that is very promising. As I said, I travel around and visit municipalities systematically and talk about elderly care, and this is very much awaited.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-352	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. On 1 March 2016, a new law came into force which obliges municipalities to accept newly arrived immigrants. The estimated number of references to municipalities corresponds to 13 500 dwellings. In today's housing crisis in Sweden, where housing is missing, the solution is modular housing as it takes so long to build housing in Sweden today. According to Boverket's calculations, we are talking about SEK 14,700 per square metre, which would correspond to a cost of between SEK 12 and 19 billion depending on the calculations on which the costs are based.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-355	Mr President, I would like to It has not escaped anyone that last year we had an extreme situation with regard to asylum reception in Sweden. Many people came for a short time. Then the government chose to act and has thus taken measures that make the situation now quite different. However, this does not mean that the people who have come to Sweden get an easy start on their new lives. It is important that the whole of Sweden takes responsibility for this and shares the burdens – but also the opportunities – this entails. I know that many municipalities look not least at the housing investments that are the largest in 20 years and where we provide incentives for the construction of rental housing at reasonable costs. This enables more housing to be built for these groups as well. Then there are municipalities that have vacant premises that can be used for residential construction, and there are others who look at modular dwellings. It is a decision you have to make at the municipal level.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-357	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Mikael Damberg. I am therefore told that the compensation for the extremely high costs of developing housing imposed by the government is a subsidy of SEK 1.1 billion. In the housing crisis we are experiencing today, we all know that modular housing is the solution to getting fast – and enough – homes. So it costs between 12 and 19 billion.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-358	Mr President, I would like to It can be noted that the government has also contributed SEK 10 billion to the local government sector to address the challenges facing Sweden, not least in terms of welfare development and ensuring quality. If you look at the Swedish Democrats' budget options, you can see that they want to withdraw huge amounts of money from Sweden's municipalities and county councils – precisely the money needed for the people who have come to Sweden to be able to get an education and get their first job. It is neither a smart economic policy nor especially solidarity with Sweden's municipalities and county councils.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-359	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. On 1 April 2008, then Minister of Economic Affairs Maud Olofsson declared the merger of the Danish and Swedish posts, within the framework of what later became Postnord. There are those who claim that this affair was actually worse for the Swedish state than the Nuon affair. When you look at the annual report that came this spring, and also at previous annual reports, you can see that the large losses made in the letter business in Denmark are actually financed by the fact that the letter business in Sweden is doing quite well. I would like to see an evaluation and a follow-up of what this deal has actually cost the Swedish state. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore: Is the Minister prepared to follow up on this?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-362	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for the question. Postnord operates in a truly changing market. You can imagine that people send fewer letters today, and that is what you do in Sweden. But even fewer letters are sent in Denmark, as Denmark has moved to a much more digital system. The change has thus gone incredibly much faster in Denmark than in Sweden, which puts a lot of pressure on profitability in Danish operations. But in reality we see the same trend and the same development on the letter page in Sweden, although it is slower. However, we see that other parts of Postnord's operations are growing. Package management – that people shop online and get packages sent home – creates new opportunities. Postnord is thus becoming much more of a logistics company to handle the increased volume and opportunities that exist. When it comes to whether this was a bad deal or not, one can probably look at a little different time perspectives. However, I have not seen any such figures or calculations.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-365	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what I am calling for. There are no concrete figures. What you can do is look at the annual reports. From the beginning, when this deal was announced, it was claimed that it would be a 1 billion-dollar profit deal for the Swedish state. We can say that it is not; you do not collect any profits at all from Postnord. It is also the case that the letter business does not really compete in the open market, but we have special legislation based on the citizen's right to send letters. That's what we're looking at right now.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-368	Mr President, I would like to I think Teres Lindberg felt that the legislation would be very important for Postnord's operations – what conditions they have to actually cope with this, but also what requirements we as citizens make for postal management. It is an issue we are following very closely, and we are trying to find timetables that allow the legislation to reflect the activities we see before us in Postnord. So these questions must be connected. I think this is important for Postnord's future.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-370	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. Yesterday Prime Minister Stefan Löfven announced that Mikael Damberg was given increased responsibility and will work to create more simple jobs in the business sector and also launch reforms, as he called it. It is very welcome. The Center Party has long been calling for reform from the government precisely to create more simple jobs. We ourselves have presented a series of proposals relating to entry jobs, entry companies, extended RUT deductions and so on. The only thing that has so far come from the government when it comes to creating simple jobs is 5,000 standby jobs that will come in the public sector by 2020. 5,000 rescue jobs are a drop in the ocean, considering that around 1 million people in Sweden will be in alienation by 2020. Reforms are therefore extremely important so that young newcomers who are far from the labour market have a chance of a simple job.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-373	Mr President, I would like to We have done a great deal of work that leads to people getting jobs, and we now also see in the statistics that unemployment is falling sharply and employment is growing. About 110 000 more people go to work today than on election day. So of course it makes a difference when we make this kind of offensive investment. We have done many other things also in agreement with the bourgeois parties, such as extending the RUT deduction as part of the migration agreement. So we have made efforts in many different areas. What we will not do, however, is to push down wages by means of legislation. The Center Party always tries to use the discussion to say that you want to do so. We won't. We believe in the Swedish model. We think it is good that we have employees and employers who sign agreements and determine salaries and conditions in Sweden. Now we see that both the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and LO signal that they are interested in seeing what they can do together so that more people can get into the labour market faster. This is a good model for Sweden – the Center Party should listen to more.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-377	Mr President, I would like to It is important to bear in mind that, when unemployment falls, it is particularly in those groups that are close to the labour market, not among those who stand further away from it, young and newcomers. As far as reforms are concerned, it is important to reduce the cost of hiring. So far, the government has put forward proposals which go in the opposite direction to increase the cost of hiring people who are far from the labour market.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-380	Mr President, I would like to I simply note that we are changing the policy that the Center Party was the inventor of the last parliamentary term. It led to an increase in youth unemployment during your time. Now it is greatly reduced. And it does so even though we are making some tax changes, as we are investing in providing young people with the training they need to be able to enter the labour market. We focus efforts on those grupppers who find it difficult to get in to get a foothold in the labour market and be able to take a job. Obviously, the policies we pursue seem to have a much greater impact than the policies advocated by the Center Party.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-382	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Bolund. A few weeks ago, a consumer report was submitted to the Government at a hearing entitled "Telecom industry and consumer". It is always interesting to take note of the consumer report, because it is a measurement of the current situation of the consumer. The sad thing about the report is that the list of the ten most problematic markets has still not changed very much, but it is still the telecoms industry that tops it. This is not good. I know that a majority in the industry who are serious are working on the issue. However, many people are still affected, especially young people, the disabled and the elderly.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-387	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Roswall for a very important question. Of course, it is urgent that we as consumers should feel satisfied and secure in the consumer markets, regardless of which market it is about. We know from the consumer report and also media descriptions that we have major problems in the telecommunications market. Many consumers today feel dissatisfied. You don't think you get enough information and sometimes feel trapped in agreements that you don't think you've agreed to. This is where we need to do a rapture. We work widely on the government's side to give the responsible authorities more opportunity to act. For example, the Swedish Consumer Agency now has the opportunity to go directly in and stop marketing campaigns and different types of business models that directly create problems for consumers. In the past, it has been a fairly long process. You have had to go through court to stop a sales campaign that is unethical or that does not work. Now you can stop it right away. We also have an investigation into telephone sales which has been put on the table of the government and which we are currently preparing.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-392	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The telecommunications market is important both for the market and for us consumers, and there are many of us who use it. As I said, the Alliance government set up an investigation that left its report a while ago. I met the Government the other day and was told that something was coming. Now I wonder when and what proposals are coming, because, as I said, it is important that we act urgently.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-395	Mr President, I would like to Telephone sales are a particular problem area, not least for people who find it difficult for various reasons to absorb fast information, which is often a matter of, and sometimes with rather aggressive sales methods. The investigation has looked at several different proposals, including tightening up the Nix register so that it works better and adapts to modern technology but also looking at a written requirement, i.e. that as a consumer you have to sign up to the fact that you want to implement a contract. This has already been implemented in Norway, for example. The question is currently being prepared at the Government Office.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-399	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. In order to face increasingly fierce global competition, Sweden must educate and attract excellence. International students benefit Sweden, especially the Stockholm region, both in terms of education and the labour market, as they are linked to other countries, especially at a time when internationalisation is becoming increasingly important. Recently, Ekot reported that Swedish universities charge a fee for non-European students who are twice as high as the cost of education. Students who paid the fee but were then forced to drop out because of illness or that they were not granted a visa will not receive the money back. The risk with the current regulations is that even more non-European students apply to our universities. The fact that we are losing international students is extremely worrying and risks leading to the already obvious lack of competence at our Swedish companies here in the Stockholm region becoming even more acute.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-404	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Serkan for a very important question. The internationalisation of higher education is about Sweden being able to compete with knowledge and competence and not with low wages. Then we need to ensure that Swedish students study abroad and that it is attractive for foreign students to come to Sweden. Being in an international environment also increases the quality of higher education for students. The bourgeois government introduced tuition fees quickly and imprecisely. This has meant that the number of international students has fallen sharply. We have also discovered that there is a lack of regulation because such a thing was not created when these charges were introduced. In the autumn, I will set up an investigation to develop a better system that makes us attractive.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-408	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. It is a good thing that the government takes on the regulations that disadvantage the internationalisation of our education. However, some of the responsibility for internationalisation lies with universities. Our universities and colleges must realise that internationalisation does not happen by itself just because there is an international student in the classroom.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the follow-up question. Over the past year, I have had a number of hearings with our universities and colleges to hear what they are doing to increase the number of international students. There's a lot going on. I will also give a government mission to map how to work with the fees so that we do not have a system that discourages international students. It is totally unacceptable that an international student cannot get his or her fee back for something that the student himself has not been able to influence.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-415	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Space. The European Space Agency, Esa, will start an incubation business for start-up companies in space technology, and some forty Swedish companies can participate. Esa finances some of this, but it also requires counter-financing from the Swedish side. At the moment, it is unclear which authority or authorities should be responsible for this counter-financing. The programme would actually have started now, and Sweden risks missing it if it is not clear which authority should be responsible for the funding. We are not talking about big money, but there is probably a need for some kind of government directive on who should take care of it.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-420	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mathias Sundin for an important question. It is not often I get to discuss space activities, but let me stress that it is important and that Sweden is a leading space nation. As Mathias Sundin points out, it provides an opportunity to create innovation and new companies that we have outstanding research and technology development that is linked to space operations. This particular incubation activity, which I was involved in opening when it started in Uppsala, is such an opportunity. As far as counter-financing is concerned, the Ministry of Enterprise and Education shares responsibility. Let me take the question with me and see how we can clarify who should be the counter-financing party.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-423	Mr President, I would like to It sounds good that the government takes hold of it and sort it out, because we are about to miss this chance. Actually, it's already five past twelve, so it needs to be fixed quickly. It is about great opportunities for research and not least in terms of growth and job creation in Sweden. In many ways we have good conditions. We have extensive experience from Esrange, and we have a space team and other things. It is important that it comes quickly into place.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-427	Mr President, I would like to I very much share the view expressed by Mr Sundin. I am pleased that there is agreement across party boundaries in Parliament that this is an important activity. We have a coordinator who looks at how Esrange, for example, can develop, because we know that there is high-level research, knowledge development and technology development that can lead to new jobs and innovations. I will take this issue with me and ensure that we deal with it urgently.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-430	Mr President, I would like to Swedish food producers are having a difficult time, and the government has introduced a number of measures to strengthen Swedish food production. In the midst of all this, however, we can note that Swedish food sells well on export. The largest are fish products, which account for more than a third. My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. Although he released trade issues to the new Trade Minister the other day, he may still have an idea of how the government can ride on this success and further strengthen Swedish food exports.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-433	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. There are enormous opportunities to develop the food sector in Sweden also towards exports. In fact, the international dimension is an important part of the food strategy that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is working on and will be presented before the summer. If we want to increase production in Sweden, we need more exports of Swedish food. We have good conditions. Our low use of antibiotics, our environmental concerns and our animal welfare are things that consumers increasingly value. There is a potential for Swedish food exports that is somewhat underestimated. Let me link this to the export strategy that we have presented. I believe that the food sector is one of the winners of an export strategy that is clear about reaching growth markets and which also works more regionally in Sweden, not least in helping small and medium-sized enterprises to go on export. Many food producers are actually small and medium-sized operators.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-437	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. One important thing that can drive increased exports and jobs in the food industry is innovation. How will the government's drive for innovation also benefit the food industry?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-439	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the issues we have discussed in the context of the industrial talks. The food industry has been very clear to us and said that it must rise in the value chains and develop its value creation so that it can sell more and create new products and services. Those who have succeeded in the Swedish food industry have done this, and then they have also succeeded in the export market. This is definitely something that will be within the framework of the food strategy and also within the cooperation we are now discussing, for example in Bjuv, where several stakeholders are considering how we can make further efforts in food research.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-441	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. There is evidence that there is a crisis in social services and that, with the pressure of recent months, the situation is extraordinary. The government and the responsible minister have planned to remake the Social Services Act so that it will work. However, it seems to have stopped, because I do not see any concrete proposals. Or does the Minister believe that the current Social Services Act meets today's demands based on society's challenges?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-444	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The work has certainly not stopped. We have taken a great deal of action during our reign. We took over a social child and youth care service which, unfortunately, was in a very fragile state after the alliance government had ruled for eight years. We had to start quickly by trying to reinforce it. Among other things, we have dedicated 1 billion to social care for children and young people. It is true that we are going to review the Social Services Act, and we are preparing those directives. It is a comprehensive, fine piece of legislation, but it is a framework legislation that has become very detailed and needs to be modernised. It is a complex regulatory framework and we need to prepare the directives for a further period of time. In the meantime, we are constantly making decisions to strengthen social care for children and young people.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-449	Mr President, I would like to Often you hear that it has been a fragile condition, and you are happy to talk about the Alliance, Åsa Regnér. On the other hand, half the term of office has passed, and we have not seen any concrete proposals regarding the revision of the Social Services Act. It may be added that there are many requirements regarding challenges in this area, such as skills provision, training and so on. When will the review come?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-451	Mr President, I would like to Often you hear about these shortcomings. Even during the eight years the Alliance was in power, and yet very little happened. We have taken measures regarding support for introductions, which are requested, and staffing in social care for children and young people, and we have introduced a new form of housing. We have taken around 60 decisions to strengthen the sector in general and in relation to the fact that there have been many unaccompanied minors. We will set up an investigation into the Social Services Act, and I look forward to discussing it further.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-454	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Per Bolund my question. Over-indebtedness is a major problem in society: 400 000 people are registered with the bailiff. Most often, it is unfortunate circumstances that lead to over-indebtedness. There may be death in the family, divorce, unemployment, illness or bankruptcy. The consequences are great for the individual, who has his life broken down. Children are also severely affected. It is also a great loss to society as many get sick and can no longer work. We would gain a lot by doing something about this. We are now getting better debt restructuring opportunities, but the most important thing is to prevent over-indebtedness, including through consumer guidance and budget and debt advisors.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-458	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for this important question, which concerns a great many Swedes! With the credit society we have now, there are also negative aspects, including the fact that many people end up in debt, which they find difficult to overcome and which unfortunately can last for a long time. The government has addressed this issue from the very first day we entered. I am pleased that Hillevi Larsson is putting a hole in the myths surrounding over-indebtedness – that it is because of carelessness and that you have not managed your economy. Like Hillevi Larsson, it is often because you have suffered severe setbacks in life. Then you should have the opportunity to get help and support to get out of the problems. It is true that we are working on a new debt restructuring law, which makes it both a lower threshold for entry and an easier journey. We also work preventively with education, both at school and in adult education. There are also recommendations on budget and debt counselling to make it work better and more equally across the country. When you get into financial problems, you should feel that you have the support of society. This is an important starting point for the government.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-463	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that we are working so broadly, both in helping people who are already over-indebted to get out of it and in preventing more people from ending up there. The first step is taken at school, that you know how to do it, and then there is budget and debt counselling. It is important to have outreach, for perhaps not all those who need help to get to grips with their debt at all and later on to get a debt adjustment if necessary may not be reached. I look forward to further work. It's really needed.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-466	Mr President, I would like to Many measures need to be taken, and many of them have been taken by the government. We have given strong reinforcement to the bailiffs in order to be able to carry out an outreach activity for eternal debtors and to inform them that they have rights and can be helped. We have invested more money in Like your economy, which is the dissemination of information to adults, both in the workplace and through different types of associations. We also have an investigation, which will present its proposals after the summer. It looks at how we can have a healthier credit market, where we avoid, for example, the kind of high interest rates that exist.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-469	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask my question to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Telia is currently cutting the copper wire for 10,000 subscribers around the country. It has been promised to complete this next year, when you will cut the thread for 12 500. Many municipalities are affected on this issue, such as Nordanstig, where almost 70% of all rural residents will have access to telephone, hopefully, but not broadband. In Eksjö the figure is 64 per cent. In Finspång, in my home country, 50% of all rural residents will have access to telephone but not broadband. My question, Minister, is: Will you talk to Telia and bring this up with them? Actually, we own about 37% there.
i-QFjxG6sPGqTdgQmCk9jHQS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! We debated this a few weeks ago. As Magnus says, many people get worried when this change happens and feel a little too uninformed about it. You don't even know what opportunities there are to obtain alternatives, whether it's mobile solutions or fiber expansion. There, the government is making major efforts and doubling the support for the rural programme to expand fibre connectivity around Sweden. In the more extreme cases where the coverage is too low, there are today various satellite solutions on the market. When it comes to all the people who today feel worried, my message is that Telia must provide clear information so that municipalities and people are given the opportunity to change. People who are concerned can seek information from the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency or from industry-wide information points, where you can see which options are suitable for you.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-476	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! Around Sweden you are very upset about this. We are talking about a scandal and the big broadband weakness. A party friend of yours, a Social Democratic councillor in Vännäs, has appealed to Telia to postpone the decommissioning until viable alternatives exist.
i-GC2zoJK4cpozG2jfpQVd1j	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Magnus Oscarsson! We know that it is Telia who makes these decisions. This was also done during the period of bourgeois government. They started a change program where they went from copper wire to other types of mobile telecommunications network. This change continues, but it is important that Telia takes responsibility for information. It is also important that we from the state do more. We are now doubling support for the rural development programme to roll out fibre and fast connectivity throughout the country. There are also other possibilities.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-482	That concludes Question Time for the week. I would like to thank the participating ministers and Members.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-484	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservations 5 and 8. I would also like to agree with some of what the previous speaker, Jessica Rosencrantz, talked about about the importance of coordinating possible ERTMS expansion with our neighbours. The three ERTMS installations that have so far been made in Sweden terrify. The Bothnia Line is largely devoid of freight traffic. On the Haparanda track, only one operator has invested in equipment on the locomotive. The most disturbing of all is Västerdalsbanan, which now because of Ertms has no passenger traffic. We had the train operators visiting the Transport Committee at the beginning of May. They were stinging in their criticism of Ertms and said this: The European common signalling system is in question. It is a system that has no customer benefits, nor does it increase the capacity on the tracks. Ertms is run by a few manufacturers who have convinced infrastructure managers that they can avoid costs for optical signals. Ertms is completely unnecessary and useless as it does not provide any higher capacity on the track. However, this means very large investments, especially for the engine owners. Green Cargo has invested in Ertms in 33 locomotives at a cost of SEK 1.6 million per locomotive, i.e. a total of SEK 53 million. But they can't use these locomotives on ERTMS tracks, because the software now needs to be upgraded. Such an upgrade costs SEK 330 000 per locomotive, i.e. a total of SEK 11 million. It is not worthwhile for them to upgrade the software, for it will certainly need to be upgraded several more times. When we had the train operators visiting the Transport Committee, we also had representatives from the Swedish Transport Administration who claimed that Ertms could improve capacity by 2%. I would like to comment that it is a clean desktop product. That's not how it works in real life. The Finnish Transport Agency estimates that a freight train can drive at 100 kilometres per hour for one kilometer, reduce speed to 80, increase speed to 90, lower it to 70, raise to 100, and so on. It only works on the desk. A train driver who drives a freight train wants to avoid braking the freight train as far as possible. If you get speed intervals of 100 - 80 - 70 - 90, then the train driver folds at 80 kilometers per hour. What do we need Ertms for when the other countries are not on the track? However, the majority of committees Ertms in their text: The committee also intends to monitor developments on this issue closely. This is good. The Danish government wants to cut train bet. There is a lack of money in the oil-funded Danish Togfonden. Therefore, the Danish Venstre government wants to cut sharply in the plans to modernise the rail network. Among other things, the idea of the so-called hourly model, which is about increasing the speed of the Danish railways to 250 kilometres per hour, was dropped – this was read in Danish newspapers last Friday. A not too bold guess is that the Danes will put Ertms in a grind bag. It is already possible to drive cross-border freight trains for information purposes. We have the Danish EC locomotives that can operate on German electricity and signalling systems, Danish electricity and signalling systems and Swedish electricity and signalling systems, and the Danish IC3 trains can operate both Germany, Sweden and Denmark. I would like to give a tip to the government representatives in here; this is on me. You can tell the Minister of Finance that she can save 30 billion SEK in the plan by not investing in this senseless venture or by pushing it forward. I will now talk about solo train drivers. Today's passenger trains can transport a very large number of passengers with only one train driver on board. I believe that in today's tendered train traffic, one should not be able to win a tender by drawing up its own rules and introducing reliefs in the safety system. A train wagon smokes in one minute and is completely lit in three minutes. From the indication of fire, it takes one minute for the train to stop. Then you can make security calls. In the event of a fire, additional permits must be obtained before passengers can be released. The delay resulting from only one single train driver on board can be the difference between life and death for travellers. We had an X 2000 train course that wrecked a hot summer day outside Stockholm a couple of years ago. The train's electrical system went out. The engineer was busy debugging. It was 30 degrees and sunshine outside. X 2000 has no opening windows, so it soon became unbearable inside the train. There was a panic among the passengers who, among other things, knocked out the windows in the bistro to get air. They were also about to use the emergency openers on the doors to get out of the train – but in the wrong direction. They were about to get out of the train towards the track that was still open to traffic. A disaster was avoided by the presence of train hosts on board the train. The driver had no idea what was happening inside the train, for he was busy with his troubleshooting. On 21 May 2014, the Transport Committee said in connection with my motion Some safety issues relating to intrusion protection for the driver's cab so that one cannot enter the driver's cab while travelling: The committee assumes that the government actively pursues the issue of increased rail safety and that adequate measures are taken to this end. ..................................................... Since the committee's position, however, nothing has happened that has reinforced the intrusion protection of the driver's cab while travelling. I ask myself: must there be a disaster before something is done? Following the terrorist attacks of 11 September, the new directive was adopted by all the authorities and bodies of the air transport sector regarding the ability of air passengers to enter the cockpit and to hijack the aircraft. Among other things, all airlines have now installed new security doors with code locks, and even if someone comes across the code, it is not possible to force the door without a decisive handle from the pilot. It is now very easy to get into the driver's cab while travelling and cause a disaster that, by Swedish standards, makes everything else fade. It should be a matter of course for a train driver to be able to lock himself and keep the key on his side, as well as for the driver's cab door to be unable to push as easily as it is today. I asked the Minister for Infrastructure why she had not followed the committee's decision. She answered the question as follows: ..................................................... Do you recognize that reasoning? Before 11 September 2001, it was up to the airlines themselves to ensure that no passenger would be able to enter the pilot. With regard to cross-border rail traffic, I am concerned that progress is now being made towards a future one-way strategy in which our rail wagons will only go through Denmark and not via Trelleborg to Germany. In Trelleborg, the volume of railway wagons has decreased from some 200 000 wagons per year to 20 000 wagons per year. Trelleborg's port is now about to completely stop rail traffic. It was a major train accident, or derailment, in Denmark in 2012, which meant that no continental wagons could pass through Denmark between 30 November and 13 December, but they had to take the road through Trelleborg which was the only option. This year there was a total barrier in Denmark during the 5 – 8 May and 14 – 16 May. During these days, no conventional wagons could go through Denmark, but Trelleborg was saved. If we do not get to a national railway strategy regarding Trelleborg's port, Sweden is very vulnerable when it comes to rail traffic.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-507	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we have well-functioning transport with high capacity and that we can trust them are prerequisites for our modern society to function at all. We have seen many examples of this in the near future when the opposite, i.e. non-reliability, has caused chaos. Both we people, who are passengers, and companies, must be able to feel confident about using the transport infrastructure, whether it is road, rail, air transport or shipping, and when public transport is offered. Of course, this also applies very much to the rail transport mode, which is the subject of this debate, and which I, too, wanted to dwell on quite a bit. I myself and the party I represent in the Swedish Parliament, the Center Party, believe that it is competition on the railways that has ultimately ensured that we consumers have more departures, better efficiency, lower prices and a much more resource efficient use of the social infrastructure rail. It is an alliance, Mr President. As a center party, I also believe that competition between several operators and operators on Swedish railways contributes to efficiency efficiency and a range that is adapted to demand. In this context, I would like to remind you that modern research from the Swedish Road and Road Research Institute in Linköping has shown that the rail market in our country has been positively affected by greater transparency, increased liberalisation and liberalisation that have been going on since the 1980s. Competition between several train operators has in itself contributed to growth in traffic, efficiency improvements and innovations in meeting the demand for goods and passenger transport. But in order for this good competition and positive development to continue, that is to say increased supply, increased efficiency and a more efficient use of the transport infrastructure we spend 25 – 30 billion SEK on each year, it is important that there is a situation with equal conditions between all train operators and that all train operators in the Swedish rail market are given the same conditions. Mr President, I would like to I thought until Tuesday this week that the above points on openness and liberalisation of the Swedish rail market and so on were a political view that covered almost the entire Parliamentary Committee on Transport. But last Tuesday, the Green Party came up with a new train policy. It means that the state-owned SJ will be offered an unlimited monopoly for several years – a decade and a half – on parts of newly produced Swedish railway lines. The sender of this news bomb was none other than the chairman of the Transport Committee Karin Svensson Smith. I believe, Mr President, that this message must have sent shock waves into the Swedish rail market and to the European Union and others, where until now we have been perceived as a driving force for transparency, demonopoly and more cross-border traffic. Mr President, I would like to It could have been dismissed as an accident or an expression of personal opinion if it were not the case that the Green Party, the party that Karin Svensson Smith represents in the Swedish Parliament, was included as a basis in Stefan Lövven's government even after the re-formation of the government yesterday. So you're a government party. At the moment, the government is preparing a very heavy and important infrastructure bill on the future of transport policy. It is a document that I think the whole Parliament is looking forward to starting working on very soon. In view of this, I must take this opportunity to put a question to the representatives of the government parties in the debate here today. It's Social Democratic Lars Mejern Larsson and environmentalist Karin Svensson Smith. Can you confirm whether the new train policy that we took note of last Tuesday – the one with the ambition of giving a national SJ monopoly to train traffic – is an early hint of a complete shift in the country's traffic policy? If so, will it be found in Anna Johansson's infrastructure bill later this year? In fact, if that is the case, the conditions for the report on rail and public transport that we are discussing here and now are changing very dramatically. There are many of us who are excitedly looking forward to a reply on this issue. Was it a government play? Will we find the corresponding position in the forthcoming infrastructure bill? It is of course important that Sweden's railways are maintained and managed in order to create a robust, safe and secure railway system. The Alliance government inherited a railway in great need of increased maintenance in 2006 and therefore made historically large investments in maintenance. We can see that more than a great deal of effort is required in terms of maintenance. The funds, the money, which is allocated to maintenance must also be used wisely and efficiently. In this context, I would like to point out that the current regime on the Swedish market for maintenance of the railways with a competitive environment is the right way forward. I and the Alliance believe that it would be directly damaging if all railway maintenance were renationalised. I would like to point out that major organisational changes in the operation and maintenance of the state railway infrastructure would have a very negative impact on efficiency and accessibility, and the ongoing improvement work would risk losing momentum. In order to gain knowledge of the Swedish rail system, both the former and the current government asked an investigator to familiarise themselves with the situation. As a result we received a very solid investigation material from Professor Gunnar Alexandersson and others. One is called Koll at the facility, and another is called Another Train Order. It is a solid, heavy and well-processed material. Given that it has been a while since the investigation material was submitted, I would like to ask representatives of the two government parties who come shortly after me in the debate: when will the government do any of the very extensive and thorough investigation material that Alexandersson's investigation has given up? Finally, I would like to say something about Ertms, that is to say the signalling system which is intended to be installed in our country. The idea is that it can lead to a common European signalling system in order to facilitate cross-border rail transport. That is basically a very positive thing, and the aim is commendable. However, on a recent visit to the committee, the professional association Train Operators and others said that the views of the operators, i.e. those on the Swedish rail system, are worrying. Their assessment is characterised by the problems that have been in the form of cost increases, delays and recurrent operational problems. We are concerned by the sharp criticism that exists from the industry, and we have also seen different national – not European – solutions emerge. They talk about dialects in the system. I would like to stress that it is of the utmost importance that the system be introduced in a harmonised way and that the national adaptation is such that it also works in other countries. In a situation where there is the slightest suspicion as to whether it is right and proper to launch the big ERTMS project, I think it is actually better to pause the project. Enormous values in the form of disruptions to our export industry and regarding people's travel are at stake if the Swedish railways were to become an experimental workshop. In connection with the committee meeting, I felt that the representatives of the government parties also took on board the signals from the train operators. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask how you have carried that knowledge further into the Ministry of Industry and to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson, where the large investigative resources are available. Have you received a satisfactory answer, which will allow us to proceed with confidence with the project? Ertms isn't like a theme to argue about-- it has to work. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations made by the Center Party and the Alliance, but for time savings I only ask for reservation 1.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-526	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time-winning we are content with it today. Mr President, I would like to The issues raised here today concern the individual very directly. Perhaps that is what makes the subject so interesting and important. It's like the train. It's like it's on track. That train's gone. It's dumber than the train. I think I could hold on for a while, and I think everyone in this room can say even more about trains. Perhaps there are so many because they have such an impact on our lives. Even the one who never goes by train can't get away with it. Trains travel on rails across the country, across fields and meadows, through forests, cities and mountains. At night, it may be heard extra clearly — the bang on the rails, the scream from the brakes, and the whistling from the whistle. While the railway in its physical form sometimes divides cities into two parts, it also binds the whole country together. Most of the time, we don't think about all the trains rolling up. They're there. We see them. We hear them sometimes, especially at night. It is when it does not work that we think of them, especially if we are directly affected. We were told how Jessica Rosencrantz was allowed to sit outside Hallsberg for hours. I can in itself think it can be nice to sit right outside Hallsberg – I live very close. On the other hand, it might have made me even more irritated if I had sat right outside Hallsberg, because then I would have liked to come home. It is precisely when it does not work that we think about this. Thankfully, it is very rarely that we have major accidents on the railways. On the other hand, many of us have experienced exchange errors, signal errors, electrical faults, deciduouss, snowcaos and sun curves. Again, I could stand and list for quite a long time. We can just take this with the gears. We have switches in the net that have been in place since the railway was built. Of about 10,000 switches, about 1,200 have passed their technical service life. In 2012, a few years ago – and this has not improved – total train late hours were 2 365 due to gear failure. Of them there were 945 hours on the larger strings, 686 on other important routes and 645 in the big city. We can all imagine what it does for the individual but also for the labour market. The trains go faster today, and the speed is tearing. There are heavier trains running today, and it's working too. We Liberals want heavier, longer and faster trains, but we must be aware that it also requires more maintenance. Our railways must continue to be upgraded and expanded, as they have been deprived for decades. The Alliance pushed through a plan to invest SEK 522 billion in transport infrastructure until 2025. It's the biggest investment in history. In the plan, around SEK 80 billion goes to the operation, maintenance and investments of the railway. That is more than a doubling of the previous Social Democratic plan. We Liberals want to continue to upgrade and expand the railways. We want a robust railway system. It is a prerequisite for a well-functioning labour market, and it is an investment for the environment. Several of the visits that I have been on during the months that I have been on the Committee on Transport have mentioned the need for a national maintenance plan. This is also something that has been proposed by the investigation into the organization of the railways, and which we Liberals and our comrades bring up in our reservation text on operation and maintenance. The cost of non-functioning train services is difficult to understand. Of course, the delays and cancellations in recent years affect Swedish growth. When you have to take the train the night before a meeting that starts at. 8 to be sure to arrive on time, although travel time is only two hours, then we have problems. Who's gonna pay for the extra time? Labour market regions function less well when labour commuting does not work. In many ways it is the maintenance that it falls on. Mr President, I would like to This with county boundaries makes a little bit of a mess. A common public transport card for Sweden would facilitate a great deal. It's easy for travellers and easy for companies – and it's already here. We're sitting here, aren't we? I understand that's another thing. We have it this simple, but we are not allowing our citizens to have it so simply, simply to have a common public transport card. I see the time. I don't think that train has gone quite yet. I'm sure we can fix it. If the future is to run like rails, we all need to be helped together.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-539	Mr President, I would like to There are over 18,000 kilometres of railway in Sweden. It transports goods and people throughout our elongated country. Since the expansion began in the mid-1900s, the railway has been an engine for the whole country, it is of great importance for jobs and growth and it strengthens our competitiveness. The railway has been crucial in the development of Swedish business and binds us together with the rest of the world. For example, in 1898 the construction of Malmbanan, which still carries the most goods in the country, started about 16 million tonnes a year. Mr President, I would like to Different modes of transport complement each other and contribute to the development of society. It is therefore important that we ensure an efficient, robust and long-term sustainable transport supply for travellers and business. Transport has a major impact on the environment. It is therefore necessary to make it possible for more passengers to choose public transport, walking and cycling and for more goods to be transported by rail and shipping. Not least, it is important for more modes of transport to be free from fossil fuels for better climate and environment. Railways play an important role here. Further work on an integrated rail market within Europe is important. Freedom of movement and the single market require good communications. For this reason, the European Union has announced several railway packages over the years to improve the quality and efficiency of rail within the Union, by removing technical barriers and opening up the market to competition, among other things. It contributes to safer and cheaper transport, better quality and increased accessibility. Mr President, I would like to The common rail market is not problem-free. The common ERTMS Ertms system advocated by the EU is currently being implemented in our country and represents a huge cost to operators. It should have replaced the old ATC system by 2030, but the timetable can crack because many EU countries deliberately do not install the system. This is partly due to the high costs for operators and partly because the signalling system is malfunctioning. It is important that we go along with our neighbours, Denmark and Norway, when introducing a common signalling system. We need a common signalling system within the EU because it makes it easier for all players in the market. Mr President, I would like to Freight transport requires longer and heavier freight trains. This saves the export industry and leads to more environmentally friendly, safer and more efficient freight transport. It will strengthen the competitiveness of industries dependent on rail freight transport. We Christian Democrats want to increase the permitted train length to 730 metres. In the long term, the goal is for 750 metres long trains to transport goods in Sweden. More goods would then be transported at a time compared to today. It will also free up the capacity on the tracks of other trains. We expect the Finnish Transport Administration to do what is required in terms of meeting stations and bypasses, so that it will be practically possible for longer freight trains. Mr President, I would like to SJ's old monopoly has made many systems built up according to their needs, creating a distorted competition. This concerns path allocation, custody and signalling systems. For example, X 2000 is the only high-speed train with full access to SJ's signalling system. This means that it is the only train type that can run at full speed on the Western Main Line, despite the fact that other operators operating on the same runway have access to high-speed trains. The Finnish Transport Agency must take steps to level out competition and not bring new benefits to old monopolies. The Gothenburg – Stockholm stretch is both profitable and popular. In recent years, more operators have started to run trains on this route. That's good. But the new operators must be able to compete on the same terms as SJ and also be able to drive high-speed trains on the route. Train travel is increasing in Sweden. I'm glad to hear that. This means that more work commutes and travel to tourists or to visit relatives and friends in other cities. Since 2011, private train operators can apply to drive on all train lines in Sweden. Competition benefits travellers, but the conditions must be the same and not disadvantage certain operators. When it becomes easier to travel, distances in the country decrease. This allows more people to stay in rural and smaller cities, even though jobs move to big cities. Mr President, I would like to Increasing travel increases the pressure on the substandard railways, and the main roads become crowded. The Alliance government made historically large investments in railway maintenance. However, the need for maintenance remains high pending new investments in new main routes. The Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish Transport Administration should therefore be tasked with drawing up a national maintenance plan. It shall be based on the state and use of the facilities in order to better locate deficiencies and address them in time. The fact that the maintenance of several routes today is lagging behind and that this causes delays and breakdowns that cost businesses and society billions of dollars annually is not acceptable. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that it is important to continue to safeguard a competitive maintenance market. Returning to national maintenance would be directly harmful. There is ongoing improvement of maintenance that is at risk of being adversely affected by major organisational changes in operations. For continued effective maintenance, competition among maintenance operators needs to be strengthened, not weakened. The Christian Democrats will closely monitor this development and affirm that maintenance will be competitive in the future. Mr President, I would like to If we are to be able to meet the climate threat while the business community will continue to develop and grow, the railways and shipping are crucial means of transport. They can transport large quantities of goods faster and with less environmental impact than trucks. Good communications are the bloodstream in the Swedish economy. We need to equip Sweden for the future – a future where our communications on land, in the air and in the water are crucial. Mr President, I would like to With this, I am in favour of Amendment No 1, but of course I support the joint reservations of the Alliance.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-559	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating public transport and rail. I was going to start from train traffic because many of our discussions are about rail, how it should go and how it should be kept under. But rail in all honour – what we are most interested in is rail traffic. That is what the voters and we ourselves are asking for. It is with this intention that the Green Party has developed a vision for rail traffic that was presented on Tuesday. It is available for download on our website. As far as our rail traffic is concerned, we have Switzerland as our main role model. There you start by deciding on a timetable for how the trains should run in ten years' time. Once that timetable is set, the infrastructure, the trains and the organisation needed to achieve that objective will be developed. I think we would win quite a lot by starting at that end and seeing where we want train traffic. In this House, we have agreed that doubling public transport is a good thing, although we probably have some different reasons for this. However, we have agreed on an announcement on this issue. For me, this is a very important part of achieving the goal of Sweden becoming one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Of course, fossil petrol and diesel must be replaced, but we must also reduce the use of energy in the transport system. Then public transport is essential. We also know that this is something our voters are asking for. They want to ride trains day and night. Unfortunately, night rail traffic has now been restricted in much of Europe. When you sparse out night traffic, people hear from you, because you want to be able to travel civilizedly, that is to say be able to arrive without restricting any other life space, as you actually do when you use fossil transport. If we are to manage a doubling of public transport, we need new tracks. We are all aware that there are problems with the railways. In fact, we do not need to debate this with each other, because we are aware of it. No one denies that those problems exist. But if problems are to be solved, more railway capacity is needed. It is not possible for trains at such different speeds and with the volume available on time, if the tracks are available today. Therefore, it was welcome that the previous government took the initiative to build Sweden and that the current government has taken care of this without changing assignments or replacing the people involved in it. The only thing that has changed is that you have changed your own name to the Swedish hearing. Their main proposals are new main routes between Stockholm and Gothenburg, where the train journey will take a maximum of two hours. Between Stockholm and Malmö the trip will take a maximum of two and a half hours. What I think we need to talk about much more is what the new main tracks should be for and why you should have new main courses. This is partly in order for trains to go on time, but it is also to relieve the main lines that exist, so that there is no disturbance for regional commuters or those who transport goods. It is also in order to increase the regional development that has taken place in the development of rail transport. This must be done in a combined grip. We are very much in favour of the fact that we now have such a strong concentration on producing the best route and the best design of the new main courses. I am quite hopeful when KTH has shown that the Swedish Transport Administration took in a little too much in its first calculation of how much these main roads would cost and that you don't have to spend so much money on creating new railway. I hope that in this House we will be as brave and visionary as we were in the 19th century when building new main roads. At that time, it was quick to finance the whole of the investment. That is what we need if we are to live up to the ambition of reducing oil dependence and preventing a climate disaster for future generations. But the new main routes should not just be for public transport. I would like to highlight the goods, because a very important part of the cooperation government's ambition is that long-distance transport, which today often takes place by lorry, should be done more by means of combinations of road, rail and shipping. It is not something very radical or unique. That is exactly what the European White Paper says. But action is needed to ensure that this does not stop at an ambition and a pipe dream, but becomes something real. I must therefore admit that I share the frustration of Green Cargo when it is stated in today's industry that it is very disappointed that there has been no compensation for the increase in rail charges that has affected Green Cargo and made it more difficult for them to fulfil their mission. They get tough competition from truck traffic, where the reduced oil price affects and where staff costs have been pushed to the extreme. If we want it to be serious to transfer long-distance truck transport to a combination of road, rail and shipping, Green Cargo must be given better conditions. This also applies to all other freight transporters who are on track; it is not just Green Cargo that is at issue. In this context, as other speakers have done before me in this speaker's chair, it should be pointed out that the investigation into the organisation of the railways was initiated by the Parliament. It is a very thorough investigation, and it is quite reasonable to refer it. It may not be possible to take on board the full scope of the investigation, because perhaps not all of the proposals were well thought out, but it does have a number of proposals that can provide a basis that we need to address some of the problems that the railways are suffering from today. I hope that the government will urgently respond to this and refer Alexandersson's investigation, so that we can get the basis we need to get the railways in order. For those of us who have been on Parliament's Committee on Transport for a long time, there may be reasons for self-criticism. We found it very rational to merge Banverket and Vägverket in order to better apply the four-step principle, so that problems might be solved in other ways than by building new infrastructure. What we could not really predict was that such a large part of the management of rail and road should be combined with each other. Now, in the light of reflection, we must realise that it would probably be a good idea to have a coherent railway unit within the Finnish Transport Agency, because rail transport has such specific characteristics and must be linked in a different way from road traffic. The report we are debating today is quite marked by the evaluation that we decided in the Committee on Transport and Tourism to do, I think. We decided to follow up on the Public Transport Act. The report referred to by those listening to this debate, the Public Transport Act – a follow-up, is available on Parliament's website. With the help of our office and investigative resources in the Riksdag, we have investigated what became of the Public Transport Act we passed a few years ago. The big issue at the time was whether there would come private entrepreneurs and pick the raisins out of the cake and destroy the context that public transport passengers need for the trips to be connected. Perhaps that fear was somewhat exaggerated. But this was the focus of the debate – on the one hand, private initiatives and the ability of entrepreneurs to do better for the traveller, on the other hand, the fear that the coherent public transport would be torn apart. What we did not foresee then, but as we have now noted in our follow-up, was the problem of the demarcation between, on the one hand, regional public transport, which is well regulated by legislation with regional traffic authorities and regional transport supply programmes, which are subject to public service obligations, and where there is a legal arrangement for how things are to be done, on the other hand, interregional transport, i.e. the one carried out by SJ and other companies, which do not have additional ownership. We did not foresee that conflict. Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation has also indicated that we need a national train traffic plan, a long-term transport supply plan. This is not something you can leave behind when looking at the need for new main roads. Yesterday I had the pleasure of attending a large railway seminar at the Royal Institute of Technology. It just stated that trains should be operated on the new main routes, you need to have concessions. Nowhere in the world have high-speed lines been built without having prepared with trains and wagons and with a plan for how to operate the tracks. Either you leave it to the state operator, as is the case in most countries, or you grant a fixed-term concession to a company. We in the Green Party have taken the initiative to discuss this. We do not claim that we would always have the right analysis and the right answer to all questions. But we would welcome it if more parties presented such visions. Then we may be able to break different visions against each other – all in order for travellers to be able to get the proposal that clearly leads us to really get to the finish with what we have said together, namely to double public transport. I support the proposal in the report and reject the proposal.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-578	Mr President, I would like to Earlier this week we had to take part in the Green Party's new train vision. There were some different things you bounced on there, at least me. Some were in monopoly for SJ. Another was the clear message that the state should not take money from SJ. This makes me bounce a little, because this is exactly where the Moderates came with criticism as late as last autumn after the government decided to collect almost 2 billion from SJ last year. It can possibly be considered a bit of double standards that when you have already skinned SJ on money come and say: No, we should not take any money from SJ. Last year the red-green government took twice as much from SJ as the alliance government did in total during its eight years. It is therefore a remarkably high level. Therefore, in view of the Green Party's latest move, I have to ask the chairman of the Transport Committee: was it wrong for the government to take these 2 billion out of SJ last autumn?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-580	Mr President, I would like to What we have done wrong in the first place is that we have not specified more precisely what state enterprises are for. What is most debated in this House is probably the company Vattenfall. Most people realize that it may be a point to consider in advance what companies should or should not do. Are they going to go into Nuon stores, buy lignite in other countries, and so on? It is against this background that we have spent time looking at how train traffic works in other countries, and then we have come to the conclusion that we want SJ to be assigned to operate the new tracks for 15 years. Seen in this light, the surplus generated when traffic is running – SJ is a company that is doing well – needs to be used for investments in the future. You should start at that end – not whether it should be a dividend or not, but with the question of what the company should be for. Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation suggests that consideration should be given to whether SJ should be divested. We in the Green Party do not think so because we believe that rail traffic is at the centre and that the railways are there for it. If there is a state-owned company, we have to tell them what to do. We've done that.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-583	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Svensson Smith, for your answer. However, I am not entirely sure how to interpret the answer itself. The government obviously stands up for the view that it was right to take the 2 billion out of SJ last year. The government's policy has been to use SJ as a cash cow. My criticism last autumn was that SJ is facing major investment needs in the future. Why does the state choose in such a situation to withdraw such a violent dividend? Karin Svensson Smith belongs to one of two government parties. The government policy conducted should be represented somewhere by Karin Svensson Smith. Is Karin Svensson Smith behind the government's policy? Otherwise, I wonder who it is the Swedish Parliament should demand responsibility if even the government parties themselves do not want to stand up for the policy that the government pursues.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-586	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is a party with high ambitions, and we feel that our main clients are future generations. Our visions will be shaped to reduce the possibility that they will suffer from a climate disaster. We see that as our core business. But we're also realists. This means that if we are to move a few steps at all towards the vision we have, we must agree with others. We cannot agree with others that they should do whatever we want. We're realistic enough to realize that. But in our vision we have talked about how we want it. Then we have to try to agree – and we do so within the framework of the Cooperation Government – to move step by step in the direction we want. We have succeeded with urban agreements and a number of other things. But we are not finished with our train policy, and I can see that it is probably not the Alliance either. Sweden not only needs new main tracks, but we also need to rig state-owned companies to run on the new main tracks. Otherwise, we have no pleasure in this billion-dollar investment.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-591	Mr President, I would like to In connection with Karin Svensson Smiths's speech and with the main focus on rail, I would like to ask a question on the basis of the move made this week by the Green Party. As a centre party, I advocate competition and believe that it has contributed to the efficiency and increased supply of rail and public transport services that we have witnessed in recent decades, since the beginning of the 1980s we have been very systematically demonopolising Swedish public transport and in particular Swedish railways. This has led to competition between several operators, which in turn has led to growth in traffic and efficiency improvements. It has also led to innovations. This is a policy on which there has been an almost stunning parliamentary consensus in the Swedish Parliament – until Tuesday. Then came a message from the Environmental Party, i.e. one of the government's foundation parties, that now another system of things will prevail. State SJ will be prepared for a decade and a half long monopoly on parts of the Swedish railway network. As I said in my speech, this of course sends out shock waves both in the rail market and in our partners internationally. Karin Svensson Smith is not just anyone, Mr President. Karin Svensson Smith is very influential in her party and the main parliamentary spokesperson in our country in terms of public transport and traffic issues. In view of this, I would like to take this opportunity to ask: will the policy that Karin Svensson Smith and the Green Party expressed as recently as yesterday be reflected in the infrastructure bill we have to look forward to within perhaps three to four months? It's an important message.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-595	Mr President, I would like to On this issue, I must disappoint Anders Åkesson because negotiations between two parties do not take place via the speaker's seat in this House. What we have done in our vision of rail transport is to learn from the countries that have built new main roads and established traffic for them. Both in Japan and in Spain and France, in all places, you have a long-term plan for rail traffic that is behind a mission where you order trains that fit the new tracks you have. There is little point in putting 200 billion on a new railway if you cannot operate it at the speeds it is built for. This is also why the Swedish Transport Administration at KTH's seminar yesterday stated that it is looking at the legislative changes needed to have more than one-year allocation of train paths and to have forward planning. Anyone who carefully reads Gunnar Alexandersson's study sees that there are also suggestions that you first determine which train traffic you should have and then dimension the railway after that. I can agree that the competition has been good for SJ. I don't think any of us would want the old, very bureaucratic SJ back. The competition has been good for SJ. At the same time, it must be recognised that competition has certain drawbacks. This concerns a lack of foresight and a lack of investment in new trains – we have a pressing need for new trains in Sweden. This concerns a lack of responsibility for disabled people, who find it difficult to get an overview of the various train companies. This concerns the lack of integration of timetables and so on.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-601	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Karin Svensson Smith! It got a little confused. I did not ask how the Green Party came to the conclusion that monopoly is better than market – an opinion that I certainly do not share. I didn't ask that at all. I asked my question in the light of the fact that the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats, is part of the Swedish Government, a government in whose Ministry of Economic Affairs is now working with an extremely important bill that the Transport Committee will be dealing with in the autumn: the infrastructure bill for the next eleven years' investments in the operation and maintenance of road, rail, shipping, etc. in our country. In view of this, I asked the question: Will the policy in the move made by the Green Party and Karin Svensson Smith to monopolise parts of the Swedish rail system specifically for state-owned SJ express itself in the bill Parliament has to deal with this autumn? That's what I asked for and nothing else.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-604	Mr President, I would like to I must once again disappoint Anders Åkesson. It is not my job here to review the discussions that are going on. We want to shift the focus from rail to rail, because the costs of rail have been discussed without first discussing the benefits and points of rail traffic. This has been done in Switzerland and in many other places. We believe that we need to revitalise the industry that is actually left in Sweden. Sweden has a very glorious past when it comes to developing trains and electrification of the railways. This has become an export industry and has created many new jobs. If you want new jobs, which we do need quite a lot, you also have to discuss trains and not just rail. Trains do not fall from heaven, but it must be someone who buys and orders them. X 2000 took ten years to develop. I do not know how long it would take to develop a train now, but someone must have the task of developing the new trains needed for us to benefit from the new main roads. This is not only about high-speed traffic but also about large regional traffic, for example Stockholm– Jönköping, Jönköping– Malmö and Jönköping–Gothenburg. We need to discuss what trains we need for this. We have seen such things when we have traveled in different countries. It is time for this to be a discussion about trains and not just about new railways.
i-8yCKSty2gp4pjWbpyhne2f	Mr President, I would like to I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Our biggest challenge for the future is the climate threat. Transport accounts for a large part of greenhouse gas emissions. These days there is much talk about electric cars, but electricity is also to be produced. O ch before all the cars in the world are powered by electricity it will be long, long time. The climate impact of the transport sector must be taken seriously. In fact, it is about what we hand over to our children and grandchildren, and that is why we need to raise awareness and strengthen attractiveness by highlighting the benefits and positives of good and functioning public transport. No one can do anything, but many more can do something. If anyone who could travel by public transport would contribute to reducing emissions. A shift in the transport sector in order to break fossil dependence and reduce emissions is possible and absolutely necessary. This requires a society in which transport is used much more wisely, through the transfer of goods from road to rail or boat and even more efficient rail transport through, for example, longer and heavier trains where possible. Mr President, I would like to We talk a lot about care, school, care and about work and leisure – now we are going to talk about how to get there and how to get out of there, that is, the mobility of people and goods. Robust infrastructure such as tracks and roads, signalling systems and signs are prerequisites for transport companies to be able to enable mobility. Then it is up to the operators, the carriers, to realise that they do not drive buses or trains, but they drive people and goods. Public transport, people's mobility, must be for everyone, young and old, those who move easily and those who move with difficulty, those who understand Swedish and those who don't. The list of how different we are can be made long. What unites is that we have chosen to travel together. Travelling together is both economic, ecological and not least social. Mr President, I would like to In order for this to be possible, and in order for us to achieve the national and international environmental and climate objectives, it is necessary that more trips are made with environmentally sustainable transport. I mean buses that run on natural gas or, of course, trains – trains that have become increasingly popular as people's mobility has increased. For that to happen, the trains must go like the train. This is not the case in Sweden today. The railroads are bad. The trains are bad. The whole structure of the train is screaming for a big turn. The reliability of rail traffic in Sweden today is remarkably low. If no delay margin is allowed, 65 per cent of the planned trains arrived on time in 2015, according to a report from Traffic Analysis. If you translate it into time, it's about 43 000 hours. It's almost comical. During the preparation of this report, I myself came too late on two occasions because of delays on the railways. It was like a reminder that we must not forget the criticism and frustration of travellers but that we should take it very seriously. Punctuality on Sweden's railways is a recurring topic of conversation, not just on the platforms. The question is how long the passengers can last. The risk is that both commuters and travellers who use the train during weekends and holidays will instead choose the car. When 66 percent of travelers do not trust the train to arrive on time, they choose the car instead. Then we risk developing towards both increased congestion on the roads and more emissions. Mr President, I would like to I read in Värmlands Folkblad a while ago an article with the title: What time is it in Arvika when it is 12.00 in Filipstad? Today the answer is obvious, but 150 years ago the difference was in any case a few minutes. That we have a common time in our elongated country we can thank the train traffic for. In fact, Sweden was the first in the world to introduce a uniform time, and that is something we can be proud of. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that the trains arrive on time in 2016. For this to be possible, the railways must be able to be used in the intended way and be accessible by maintaining the infrastructure and achieving a functioning rail system. Mr President, I would like to What do we want? The Government prioritises initiatives that provide more jobs and increased growth. Therefore, we invest in reliable and well-functioning transport systems. Delays and disruptions in rail traffic shall be met with a strongly reinforced railway maintenance. At the same time, we are investing in new tracks and roads that lead to more housing, better freight transport and reliable work commuting. Passengers and transport buyers should be able to rely on the quality of the transport system. A reliable and robust transport system throughout Sweden requires sufficient resources to be allocated for operation and maintenance. As many have testified today, Sweden has for many years invested too little resources in the operation and maintenance of the rail system, which is a contributing factor to today's operating disruptions and delay problems. We're going to reverse the trend. Delays and disruptions in rail traffic shall be met with a high level of rail maintenance. Therefore, the Government invests SEK 1.24 billion more on reinforced railway maintenance annually during its term of office. In addition, there is a special investment of SEK 100 million for the maintenance of tracks in rural areas. In order to contribute to the government's goal of Sweden achieving the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, Sweden also needs to invest in new tracks and roads. This is a prerequisite for jobs and sustainable development throughout Sweden. A proposal with proposals for policy orientation and financial framework for the maintenance and development of the transport system is planned for autumn 2016. The extension of a new high-speed rail line and measures for housing and increased accessibility in large cities are investigated within the framework of the Swedish negotiations. In parallel, there is a review of alternative forms of financing for infrastructure investments. This year alone, approximately EUR 2 billion is planned for reinvestment and just under EUR 5 billion for basic maintenance in the railway plant. There is a difference now that we have a Social Democratic and environmentalist budget. Swedish railway is on the right track again, although much more is needed. This is what it is, even though it was an empty treasure chest when we took over. The eight years of reversed Robin Hood policy have left a deep mark on our tax revenues, as they have been generously distributed in a reverse distribution policy manoeuvre. Mr President, I would like to This situation is best described by borrowing a quote from Winston Churchill – but we turn it around: Never have so few had so many to thank for so much. Here we see the difference in Swedish politics. Instead of new tax cuts, we are opening up new projects that bind our country together. For a while, I actually thought the Alliance was on the right track. But in the Alliance's first reservation I read the following: we believe that through competition on the railways, consumers can get more departures and lower prices and thus more attractive rail transport. We also believe that competition contributes to efficiency efficiency and a supply that is tailored to demand. I take it that competition on the tracks is the only thing you have to come up with. It is so full that it is difficult to get more trains today on the track that is. How, then, are we going to get more competition on today's tracks? Was that not why you appointed the construction of Sweden or, as it is now called, the Swedish negotiation? Then there is the Alliance's third reservation. You beat your chest when you discussed this two years ago– you have also repeated it today: the government has made historic financial efforts on maintenance while a series of measures have been taken to ensure that resources are used effectively and efficiently. I'm beating my chest today. Our government has made an even greater financial effort on maintenance and, at the same time, continued efforts to ensure that resources are used efficiently and efficiently. You seem to have forgotten the post-election budget that you voted down from both the SD and the Alliance, which meant that the government's investment in rail maintenance had to be postponed. For some of our companies in the basic industry, there are no alternatives other than rail. It must only work if new jobs are to be created in Sweden. SEK 5 billion a year – yes, you heard correctly – is the price tag when it comes to what delays and cancellations cost society. For that money you could hire 10,000 railway workers, says Seko. Once again, if we are to meet the jobs and the climate challenge, we need a working railway. The current capacity situation is in no way acceptable. For those who have travelled trains fairly regularly in recent years, it is clear that the Swedish rail system is not working properly. A first step is to take a comprehensive grip on maintenance so that it works better. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats therefore believe that the Swedish Transport Administration should take a clearer overall responsibility for maintenance. They should do so in order to ensure that their own maintenance skills are not lost, but also because they are the only ones who have the overall picture of the complex system that rail represents today. In addition, there are reasons, based on economic, competition and regional policy, to respond to those measures which provide for an enhanced framework for efficient, coordinated and safe maintenance operations. For me, it is extremely strange to hear the Moderates chanting that we would socialize the maintenance of the railroad. It's not about that. It's about both travellers and businesses. It is about securing jobs in the rail sector, securing environmentally friendly transport and ensuring the efficiency of rail reinvestment and maintenance so that taxpayers' money goes to action and nothing else. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about public transport. Someone has said earlier in this House: if travellers are to choose to travel collectively, it should go right and tight, and it should be neat and safe. And I have said before: It will also be quick with the same card. In the Committee's view, it is important that the public transport market should develop in such a way as to meet the transport policy objectives and principles that we in Parliament have adopted. Public transport legislation will create the conditions for increasing public travel and will also be adapted to the conditions prevailing throughout the country. Collective travel contributes not only to increased road safety and less congestion, but above all to more environmentally sustainable development. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the good work that the follow-up group has done. We have recently carried out a follow-up to the Public Transport Act. The law would lead, among other things, to a wider range of public transport services and greater choice for travellers but has not functioned as intended, as the report shows. The influence of travellers has not significantly increased, despite the fact that it is now stipulated in law that they should be consulted before the regional public transport plans are decided upon. The report highlights another major problem for travellers: the lack of information, particularly in connection with various disruptions. The information is very lacking for those who are not able to obtain it themselves via the Internet and for people with different disabilities. The follow-up also points to a lack of responsibility for the operation of the stations, which mainly affects passengers but also operators. Accessibility and service at stations and stops for people with disabilities remains a major problem. Among other things, it can be mentioned what it is like to buy a ticket. It's probably so hard if you don't know how to do it, because it doesn't say anywhere. And if the battery on the phone is off-line, you can't call and ask. Try the station in Åmål, and you'll see!
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-639	Mr President, I would like to You recognize a soss when you hear this kind of bombastic speech and powerful slogans. It sounds exactly the same as when I debated against SSUs during my youth union. It's a lot of hard words, but it's very little content. Perhaps I should remind Lars Mejern Larsson that he represents a government party– he is not in opposition. Sure, every government can have a honeymoon, but it is time to take responsibility, Mr President. To begin with, I can say that I am very proud that during the time of the alliance government, money for prosperity increased. I am also very proud that the appropriations for operation and maintenance doubled due to the alliance government taking power. But I get worried when this government doesn't act. You take billions from companies and people around the country. Then you give some alms back in the form of millions – that's all too often. As far as rail is concerned, it refuses to take the impression of the major investigation that has been carried out into the organisation of the railways, which was thus presented in December 2015. We haven't seen anything of it so far. When are they going to have a say out there, experts and others? When will there be a solid referral? When does the government answer what you think about a national maintenance plan? I wonder when to give clear answers on the basis that the experts in the investigation say: No, we should not renationalise maintenance. Should I interpret Lars Mejern Larsson's latest post as that you want to renationalise maintenance? Are we going to tell all the private entrepreneurs out on the railroad that it's over? That's what Löfven One said in the election campaign. Is that Lars Mejern Larsson's message today too? Please give us any information, Lars Mejern Larsson! The Swedish people and the Swedish companies want this from a government.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-643	Mr President, I would like to I can immediately reassure Jessica Rosencrantz: I have never been to SSU. It may be the accent that makes it sound a little stronger. You say you're concerned, Jessica Rosencrantz. I understand that you feel some frustration when you have been in power for eight years without being able to deliver anything. Then we came. You voted down our first budget, and in spite of that, we have delivered more now than you did throughout your term of office. I understand the frustration.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-645	Mr President, I would like to It would be very interesting to know what it is you have delivered. I know that the first thing you did was to restrict the Swedish Transport Administration's ability to ensure that maintenance operations get into the tracks by limiting the appropriations it has. According to Trafikverket itself, this was the reason why, for example, the efforts in Boden and Saunaträsk never happened, although you would like to blame other circumstances. I think it is nice that you say that you want to invest in the railways. It took an alliance government for someone to say that maintenance is important, and we doubled the money for maintenance of the railroad. It is fun and good that this government too realises it nowadays and no longer just wants to cut ties and end up on the front of newspapers when it comes to new investments. Mr President, I would like to We are not just going to gloat over this, but to say that the problem is that the money that is being invested does not come out in the tracks. This is what Gunnar Alexandersson says in his investigation: The Finnish Transport Agency does not work well. There is a need for a review of governance, leadership and organisation. There is a need for better knowledge of the facility and a maintenance plan is needed. Here we have a mastodon investigation on our table, but nothing happens to it. Can we expect a referral to be launched shortly, which we can then also take advantage of in the work on the infrastructure proposal that will come this autumn? Or will the government choose to ignore all the wise conclusions contained in Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation? If so, I wonder why. Is it because you are afraid of the conclusions because they are not in line with what Stefan Löfven himself said in the election movement? Is it because the investigation is so clear that renationalisation is the wrong way to go? Or is there something else in the conclusions that you do not share? Why can't we see that something is happening? The great challenge of the railways is not only money, but also organisation. There, the government is doing nothing right now.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-649	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to reassure Jessica Rosencrantz and the Moderates on that point too. We've been clear. The State shall assume the overall responsibility for the control and execution of the maintenance of the Swedish railways. The issue is being prepared within the Government Office, and we will come back in the near future.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-650	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I put three questions to Lars Mejern Larsson, the Social Democrats, who are therefore representatives of the largest party in the cooperation government. One of the questions we just got an answer to: The very comprehensive Alexanderssonian investigation into how to handle the maintenance and operation of the very complex Swedish railway network is being prepared in the Government Office. Thank you. We'll know. We look forward to seeing a consultation procedure on this very soon. The investigation was delivered in December 2015. One might say that a snail appears to be fast compared to the preparation speed, but it is good that it is prepared. I now come to my second question. In the week that passed, as late as yesterday, the second party in the government Lars Mejern Larsson represented a play. You are part of a government party, Lars Mejern Larsson, don't forget that! The move means that rail traffic in our country should be monopolised. The state SJ shall obtain a monopoly. Are the Social Democrats behind this policy? It's enough with a yes or a no. My third question concerns the fact that we have been informed in committee that the ERTMS Ertms system gives operators cause for concern. Has the rather worrying information we have received in the committee been carried into the Government Office to the responsible Minister Anna Johansson by the Government Party? And what response has Lars Mejern Larsson received as a representative of the Social Democrats? Is he safe in that message?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-653	Mr President, I would like to Thankfully, we are the biggest party, and I hope that we will continue to be. As for Ertms, I was at the same meeting as you, Anders Åkesson. I share the concerns raised there. It is a new signalling system for the whole of Sweden's railway – a system that replaces the worn-out system and the facility that we have now. I think these are issues that we must not make policy out of. This has to be handled in a good way. We listen and take on board as we do when it comes to big and important issues. You have to deal with them seriously. I feel safe in this. We have also said and written in the committee's texts that we plan to coordinate the introduction of Ertms so that it takes place in line with Sweden's neighbouring countries. The committee intends to closely monitor developments in this area. I feel safe.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-656	Mr President, I would like to Then we got an answer and a half. The Alexandersson investigation is being prepared. Lars Mejern Larsson and the Social Democrats, as well as the alliance parties, have understood the concerns of the train operator industry. But that's not really what I asked for, Lars Mejern Larsson. I asked: has Lars Mejern Larsson, on behalf of the largest government party, carried the information from the committee meeting into the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry to the Minister responsible, Anna Johansson? Has he obtained such information about the introduction of Ertms that he can still feel confident and confident that the Swedish rail system can now withstand the installation of a new signalling system without us having an experimental workshop? That is what I asked for, because that is the responsibility of the government party, Lars Mejern Larsson. I'm an opposition representative. I don't have any turning doors into the Ministry of Enterprise. That's a shame, because then I would have asked the question. The question that was completely overlooked by Lars Mejern Larsson, Mr President, was the one that follows. The Social Democrats are ruling the country together with the Green Party, and they are currently working together on an infrastructure bill that is reasonably in the price range of SEK 600, 700 or perhaps 800 billion and that will be handled in the Swedish parliament this autumn. Are the Social Democrats behind the move to monopolise the Swedish railway network that the partner party and the Green Party did only yesterday? A yes or a no is enough, because it gives me, as an opposition representative and the alliance parties, a clear indication of what will be read in an infrastructure bill in a few months' time. A yes or a no. Thank you.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-660	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Åkesson on that point. Yes, we are in dialogue with our minister. I don't know how you work at all, but we're in dialogue with the minister. We are raising our concerns. I feel safe. If I'm going to take a guess, I think we're going to be able to compensate the operators in front of us for this. I also believe that the European Union will approve it. But as I said earlier, this is an issue that I think you should deal with seriously and not make politics out of. You're making it easy on the Alliance. You want to introduce this, but you do not want to answer the question with regard to the economic aspect. That is a question that will fall back on all of us. I think we should deal with it more sensibly than that.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-663	Mr President, I would like to The former alliance government orchestrated what they called the construction of Sweden. The current government has inherited this and calls it nimera for the Swedish negotiation. The aim is to build high-speed railway between Stockholm and Gothenburg and Stockholm and Malmö with branching in Jönköping. There are different techniques for building railways. The Finnish Transport Agency expects that the first high-speed train with a traditional construction technology can start rolling between major cities at the earliest in 2035. The Swedish Transport Administration has now completed its project and will soon begin the construction of what is called the Ostlink between Järna and Linköping. The cheese link is a railway that is 150 km long. The Finnish Transport Agency needs ten years to build that railroad. You and I were on the same committee trip to China, Lars Mejern Larsson, where we looked at the Chinese way to build rail, i.e. to build on low bridges. It can be compared with whether a company should invest in, for example, an industry. Maybe you should build a power plant. There is no company that will start building a power plant in 2018 so that the power plant will be completed no later than 2035. It's not until the construction is complete that the revenue is starting to come. My question to you, Lars Mejern Larsson, is: Has the Government Party taken a position on how to build the high-speed road, i.e. whether to build in an old way with ballast or snaptrack on land or if you can imagine that you are building in a modern way, as it happens in the rest of the world?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-668	Mr President, I would like to It was a very exciting journey. I learned a lot from seeing such things. As for whether we have taken a stand, there is a negotiation going on. We'll see what the negotiator's giving us for results. Then first we take a stand on it.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-669	Mr President, I would like to We are talking again about taxpayers' money. Should we now invest SEK 200 or 300 billion in a construction project, it wants that construction to be completed as soon as possible. The Chinese have told us that if you allow them to enter the Swedish market and build with their technology, the entire construction can take five years from the first shovel being put in the ground until it is finished and the first train starts to roll. Then we are talking about the whole high-speed railway in Sweden. The Swedish Transport Agency needs ten years to build a 100-mile railway between Järna and Linköping. If that track is completed at the earliest in 2028, I find it hard to imagine that the first train will start rolling in 2035 on the entire railway network with traditional construction technology. You have a responsibility as a government party to look at the construction technology and perhaps force it out, Lars Mejern Larsson. If we are now to build rail for such large sums of money, we must use the most modern technology available to build this. This is how rail is built abroad, where you build on a bridge and no longer on land.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-673	Mr President, I would like to First, the question is whether there will be a high-speed train. We don't know that either. With regard to the construction technology, I hope that the investigator will come up with a proposal on best technology. Then I hope that it will go as quickly as possible and be as cheap as possible. We also need new railways in Sweden. It's not just maintenance, even if that's what we've been reporting so far.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-674	Mr President, I would like to We already have one of the world's highest marginal taxes. Lars Mejern Larsson's government has raised taxes by over 40 billion and beats its chest and says that this is job creation. I say it's the other way around. It hampers development and makes it less jobs in the long term in the country by increasing taxes and making it more expensive to work, and there will be less money in the wallet. What we are discussing today are traffic issues, rail issues and more. Lars Mejern Larsson has said in his speech that the maintenance of the railway will again be managed by the Swedish Transport Administration and possibly nationalised in some way. The private operators who supply what is currently ordered by the Swedish Transport Administration are being discredited. One would like to highlight monopolies, which are not the solution. Competition is what increases quality and pushes down prices. In the long term, there will be lower costs for us taxpayers. Competition is good. With competition, the proposals of different actors can be put against each other in a procurement procedure, and so you choose what is best and cheapest for the purpose. Mr President, I would like to My question to Lars Mejern Larsson is: Do you think that Trafikverket is deficient in procurement and control of procured maintenance of the railway? Or is it the old socialist policy that everything should be left to the state and the collective that governs you in the path of renationalising the maintenance of the railways that you mentioned in your speech?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-679	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to pay tax, and I am happy to pay a little more in tax with the parliamentary salary I have for us to get the better distribution policy. Actually, I do. I'd love to. There is talk of resocialization. If it's about getting the railroad in order so that we get better maintenance, you're welcome to call it that.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-681	Mr President, I would like to I didn't really get the answer to my question. Do the Social Democrats, represented today by Lars Mejern Larsson, disagree with the Swedish Transport Administration and feel that it is not doing very well today when it comes to procurement and control of the procured work for railway maintenance? That is what this is about today. Do you doubt the work? In our discussions with Trafikverket we have not received the signals that the subcontractors who do the jobs simply cheat and do not deliver what is procured.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-683	Mr President, I would like to Let me put it this way: I do not doubt, but I think there are improvements to be made. It turns out that not all the money might end up in the right place. We want to ensure that they do this by ensuring quality and taking overall responsibility for the control and maintenance of Swedish railways.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-684	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate has largely concerned trains, railways and all that has to do with it. It should be added, however, that the report we have to decide on also covers other public transport. It is not an insignificant part of the traffic that is being carried out. By comparison, one can say that a normal day in traffic carries out approximately 85 000 trips. On bus number 4 in Stockholm 75 000 trips are carried out during the same time period. It's almost as much. Public transport in addition to the rail network thus accounts for a very large part of the travel that is taking place and is an important part of what we have to deal with today. Having said that, the railways are of course very important and crucial for tying our long country together. But we must not forget the travel that takes place further out into the system in the capillaries, or whatever you call it. It is important that we create the conditions for the doubling target that the industry itself has taken on in public transport to be realised. An important step in this is the Public Transport Act introduced by the Alliance Government, which opens up opportunities for more people to contribute to that goal and for even more cost-effective public transport to be carried out. I say cost-effective for a reason. In fact, despite the new public transport law, the costs of operating public transport have steadily increased throughout the country, and regardless of who is in charge, the costs of public transport are slightly higher than might be expected. There is a joint effort for market players to seek a more effective solution and implementation. There are flashes of light. There are new public transport contracts, for example, for bus services in parts of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, where more traffic is carried out and has been able to reduce the cost on the whole despite this. New innovative ways can be found through collaboration in the industry and through collaboration with operators to implement this. This will create better conditions for more public transport for more and at a reasonable price. However, cost developments are far from all. The chairman of the committee referred earlier today to the follow-up to the new Public Transport Act by the Transport Committee. There are a lot of things to take on in it. And the follow-up will need to be followed up further. Many parts of this will need to be taken care of and developed. Therefore, there is today a request from the alliance parties for a proper investigation within the Government Office to come up with proposals on how to develop the new Public Transport Act. We have always been clear that this is a first step towards something that can be even better. But if you do not dare to take the first step, if you do not dare to put yourself under the test of something new, you will remain in the old. Things that need to be developed, for example, are common statistics and common traffic information. But it must be done in a way that is not only common but also best for travellers. In the county that I know best, because I represent it and have worked with public transport there, traffic disturbance information from commuter trains reached new quality levels when the local entrepreneur took over. Therefore, under no circumstances did they want to renationalise traffic information, as the quality was perceived as inferior under the Swedish Transport Administration. It is, of course, a strong signal to us in this House and to those on the other side of the water, in Rosenbad, of what we need to think about in terms of this form of common solutions. Things don't always get better in the first stage. But it has to get better fast. Another important thing to look at in particular for cross-border public transport but also for public transport with more than one operator is common ticket and payment solutions and common booking systems. Here the market has not matured yet. When we had the previous government and an infrastructure minister named Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, there was a clear message from the Government Office: either the industry takes hold of this and organises the common ticket, payment and reservation systems, or we are forced to legislate. As long as that message stood, Mr President, the industry developed solutions. Work was started. It led to resrobot.se. Then came a change of government, and the abrupt. The promise to produce legislation if the industry is not doing well has run out into the sand. Although we have heard some words from Minister Johansson about this in this House, unfortunately nothing further has happened in this area. Therefore, we will have to look at how we can solve this in the absolute best way. I can almost guarantee that such proposals will come from the Alliance, now that we have seen that nothing is happening in the Government Office – on that point too. It is also likely to have to address, for example, competition-neutral access to certain basic infrastructures, both physical and digital. We will need to take a closer look at the problem of border drawing that was mentioned here in the speaker's seat earlier. It is largely about how we draw a line between regional and interregional traffic. Where's the limit? What boundaries will we have to draw? Mr President, I would like to With this, I would also like to endorse the Alliance's first reservation.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-697	Mr President, I would like to Members! Ladies and gentlemen! When we discussed rail and public transport issues in 2015, i.e. last year, a united committee and the whole Parliament issued an announcement to the government on doubling public transport. It's good from many different perspectives. The environment benefits from more people travelling collectively. We earn time, and we get better accessibility. There's a lot of profits when we go and travel together. That we agree in this House on that too is a good thing. When talking about public transport – I intend to spend almost exclusively on public transport – it is easy, like the previous speaker, to hang on to figures. I come from Stockholm and the Stockholm region. I was born and raised here. 56% of all public transport in the country takes place with SL, i.e. Storstockholms Lokaltrafik. And of the total public transport travel is every fourth trip a subway trip. It is clear that this is an important issue from a Stockholm perspective. It is an important issue from a city perspective. And it is an important issue from a urban perspective. Public transport, like the circulation of blood in the body that forms a collective settlement, is becoming a reality. I'm not sorry I'm going to dwell on a Stockholm perspective. It is important for Stockhol m and the Tockholms, thereby also the Swedes. For the big cities, it is crucial for more people to choose to travel collectively. In Stockholm and Stockholm County Council, Stockholm County Council is the head of public transport. It is a bit distressing that ten years of bourgeois rule in Stockholm County Council has resulted in SL having a deficit of 400 million last year. It is also distressing that many wrong priorities have been set, which do not lead to more travellers. It's about the priority of Tramway City, or what in everyday terms is called 'NK E xpress'. It's about 10 billion for Roslagsbanan. And it's about a notorious no, until 2014, to the extension of the metro – or just before the election. It may even have been at the end of 2013. I think I was the first to thank the then Prime Minister for clearly running over the then bourgeois rule of both the City Hall and the County Council. At the moment, therefore, it is planned for an extended metro, so that we can have more homes and places to live. Another, more telling, example of when politics does not allow the expansion of public transport to work is the case of Tvärbanans Kistagren. It should have been inaugurated this year, according to all plans. No implementing decision has yet been taken. We have also had debates in this House in the past on public transport to Bromma airport, on which the Moderates have tabled motions. Cross-banana Kistagren means public transport to Bromma airport. But it doesn't exist yet. Actually, there's a bridge. Otherwise, however, the implementing decision has not even been taken, which means that nothing is happening. The other week it was announced that SL in the next few years will increase the fee for monthly travellers by about SEK 100. There are about the same number of bus lines that have been withdrawn. Stockholm County is not only Sweden's largest urban area. It also has Sweden's largest sparsely populated population. Stockholm County therefore includes not only the city and the densely populated suburbs. It also includes sparsely populated areas. It will then be a little remarkable, Mr President, when Erik Ottoson, as a representative of the Moderates, talks about capillaries in public transport and about the sparkles he claims are in the new procurement systems. In concrete terms, the new procurement systems mean that bus companies are paid for the number of passengers. This leads to the elimination of opportunities for people living in sparsely populated areas, where not many people step on buses. The bus companies are free to choose where to go, in order to maximise the number of passengers. Then you do exactly the opposite of what Erik Ottoson lifts up here. It hits the capillaries directly, i.e. those who do not live in the urban area and those who live in sparsely populated areas, which are without public transport. For example, in the suburban municipality Upplands Väsby, which is largely a conurbation but also has a fairly large sparsely populated area, 25 per cent of bus traffic has been withdrawn. Thus, every fourth bus line has been withdrawn. Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is easy to stand in this chamber and have high tail movements. But you also need to act and live as you learn. The Stockholm County Council is a very clear example of the fact that the bourgeois opposition parties are not living as they teach. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-710	Mr President, I would like to I am so badly forced to ask for a reply when Teres Lindberg stands and says this. I will begin with the concept of verified number of climbs, which Teres Lindberg describes as trying to knock out public transport in rural areas but which has also made public transport more cost-effective. I can only say that the entrepreneurs must not pull in one centimetre bus without SL having approved it. Teres Lindberg makes it appear that you have completely free hands to pull in which buses you want from some kind of diabolical capitalist perspective. So that is not the case. That's wrong. Let me also note that during the time of the Social Democrats there were not a centimetre of tracks built in the Stockholm region, which she speaks so warmly about. This was done, to say the least, during the last ten years by bourgeois rule in Stockholm County Council. It is indeed in the Stockholm region that more than half of all public transport trips are carried out. Then Teres Lindberg talks about how badly we have managed the economy in SL and that it could render a deficit of SEK 400 million in SL's budget. It is therefore identical to the amount that had been collected on the tariff increase that we proposed and that Teres Lindberg's comrades in the county council voted against. It did not want to take responsibility for the long-term financing of public transport. One could agree with left-wing parties, environmentalists and Swedish democrats not to raise the price but not on alternative funding. Then it should be our fault that Teres Lindberg's party did not have the backbone to carry out a necessary tariff increase, which had actually followed the cost trend in public transport. Does Teres Lindberg think it should not cost as much as it tastes?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-716	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it's easy to stand here and use big words. But it is also the case that Stockholm County Council has the highest county tax in Sweden. It is also the case that the track investments that Erik Ottoson is talking about are huge investments in something that does not result in more public transport passengers. For Roslagsbanan, investments of 10 billion will result in seven to ten minutes faster to travel from Åkersberga to Tekniska högskolan. This is a fairly small power gain compared to having spent these 10 billion on building the metro, perhaps to one of the country's largest workplaces – Karolinska Hospital. Then we can continue to discuss whether the county councils and the other alliance parties have managed the economy in Stockholm County Council. What makes it a little brazen is that Erik Ottoson continues to argue that what they are doing right now in the county council benefits the capillaries. In reality, however, what is being done and the decisions that have been taken only over the past year mean less public transport for the rural areas of the Stockholm region. As a result, more people will need to take the car where they have previously been able to travel by public transport. All the studies show that if you need to take the car a distance, the risk of taking the car is imminent. I am sorry, Erik Ottoson, but the policy pursued in Stockholm County Council makes it exactly the opposite. It does not lead to an increase in public transport, and it will not contribute to the doubling target that you and your party have also endorsed here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-719	Mr President, I would like to It doesn't really matter how upset Teres Lindberg is about what I'm saying. When you look at the statistics you can see that when we have had social democratic rule in Stockholm County Council, travel has decreased until a congestion tax was introduced. There was a systematic decline in the number of travellers during the 2002-2006 term of office, with the exception of the introduction of congestion tax. Then, in fact, travel has increased systematically. Every year, travel has increased. Teres Lindberg says that this is not the case. I can produce the actual figures on the number of passengers in SL traffic and prove the opposite to her. When it comes to capillaries, the Stockholm County Council under bourgeois rule is the first county council in Sweden to actually start implementing what they call call call-in traffic in the countryside to offer a door-to-door service in principle. I see Social Democrats in this House shaking their heads, but they are wrong. This is happening, Mr President, and it means cost-effectiveness. This is happening right now in the area around Nynäshamn. Then it is said that we do not care about capillaries and that we do not care about those who live far from the city centre and far from public transport in rural areas. Teres Lindberg can be as upset as she wants. But when you look at the figures and see how this is going out, it turns out that the big words, which were not reflected by anything in the background, probably came from Teres Lindberg.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-724	Mr President, I would like to It would be terrible if the number of public transport passengers did not increase in a region that is growing by 35 000 inhabitants per year. It is also the case, which Erik Ottoson does not mention, that car traffic is also increasing for exactly the same reason. People have to get through. But congestion is also increasing, and this is not beneficial for public transport. I must say, however, that I think the call-in public transport system is a good one. This is a good initiative from Stockholm County Council. That's what you should have credated for. But it does not replace the 99 bus routes actually withdrawn. It does not replace opening up a system where public transport will be set up to stops where there are few climbs and that new routes will be made because there are not enough going on. The basis for a functioning public transport system is in some way that a little more people are allowed to participate in funding it in places where there are a little fewer people. We also pay through public transport taxes so that we can share these costs, because not all travel pays off. It is a bit distressing that Erik Ottoson is trying to point out that the number of passengers in public transport is increasing, when in reality it is only a question of increased migration. It is also the case that motorism is increasing. It's about both factors.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-728	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we now hear from all parties in the Committee on Transport that the railways are important. It is necessary if we are to achieve the climate goals and achieve a sustainable economy within the limits of nature. We have had different levels of investment, such as maintenance, throughout history. The red-green side has continuously added more money. But it is incredibly positive if the bourgeois side also wants to raise the levels. I hope to see in the future that we all add the necessary money. Right now, the railway is not functional. We have had disturbances, which have affected Parliament's work last week, because there are so many lines that have not worked. It is very expensive for the whole of society when we have such disturbances. In particular, the Swedish Trade and Industry Transport Council, which brings together Sweden's largest companies – it may not be those that the Left Party usually represents – are very strong advocates for us to strengthen maintenance and the railways throughout the country. I find it strange that the parties in Parliament that have been active have not seen this need before. It's about Sweden's exports, and it's about very big values. It's about jobs, and it's about expanding the economy throughout the country – and then expanding the economy that's more environmentally friendly. It is important that we address the issue in the future and actually meet the climate targets by both strengthening railway maintenance and strengthening the routes and lines across the country that can enable us to have a functioning rail freight service in Sweden. Unfortunately, we have also seen that the major cities have been given priority in terms of both maintenance and investments. That is something we in the Left Party are not satisfied with, because we want to see the whole country grow. We want to see an equal economy that does not create increased divides between city and country, between Stockholm and Norrland and so on. It is really important that we build Sweden together and build a healthy and robust economy that extends across the country. We now also see that the night trains to Jämtland are under threat. These are sections that have very important functions. They have a social benefit and are supporting for many who live in Norrland when they are going to different meetings south. D e is also important for tourism to Norrland. However, such distances are threatened on a recurring basis because they are not profitable. We would therefore like to see SJ given a social mission so that social benefits and not only short-term economic gains are prioritised. Social welfare is something that carries longer; it is building society in the longer term. I therefore support our Amendment No 2. The Left Party would also like to see us grabbing the organisation of maintenance better. It does not stand as it is now, and we hear from Mr Seko's campaign how incredibly many dimensions have been affected by the liberalisation of maintenance. It is about everything from the fact that knowledge has disappeared and that we do not have continuity to the fact that you cannot fix different functions when you are out on the trail because you have been given a task to just look at one action.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-736	Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of the reservation. Before electrification it was difficult to move energy longer distances. Our geniuses in the 1700s, Polhem and Swedenborg, developed art courses to move energy at various production facilities in the mines, but it was relatively short distances. Electrification changed if not everything very much for us, first with electric power and then with electronics. There are many funny stories about how the rural people had their thoughts when the finely mammoth airline network was built. A farmer is said to have said: Yes, I understand that they can pull the wire into the air, but I cannot understand how they can drill holes in such thin threads. Well, if the kerosene comes out, it'll be fine! Today we have strong currents everywhere in our homes and at our workplaces. The general understanding is good, but the installations are made by certified electricians. Users can manage by using marked electrical equipment and by following the instructions. The Swedish Democrats are pleased that the regulatory framework for electrical safety is being reviewed. We believe that it is a hallmark for Sweden to pursue issues of high security and standard regarding electricity in general. This also applies to the competence and professional experience of practitioners of these services. The number of Swedish electricians working is over 20 000. They are doing difficult and responsible work, and it is important that those who train as electricians can then find that jobs remain and have not been taken by work tourists from other countries. We are seeing today how the construction workers market has been invaded by foreign construction workers, and it is a constant discussion about whether the foreign construction workers have the same qualifications and competences. One is for sure: Swedes have lost their job, and some construction jobs are done with lower quality. As we know, this is a consequence of European directives and our membership of the European Union. In the field of electricians, we have done better, and here we are now deciding on new laws in the field of electrical safety. In general, we find no errors in the proposal, but we guard the right of Swedish workers to a level playing field. Then there are doubts. We see it as very unfortunate to give rogue foreign operators legal opportunities to classify their employees as authorised after only one year of professional practice in their home country. While it is true that the electrical installation company must ensure this with its own control programme, the fact remains that temporary professionals can legally count as authorised or full electrical installers before they undergo the self-monitoring programme. We see that there may be obvious legal uncertainty as to what a person in temporary employment is actually allowed to do. The Swedish standard is of high quality when it comes to electrical work, and we believe that conditions equivalent to Swedish standards should prevail in order to carry out work in Sweden. However, we see that there are some differences in the rest of Europe with regard to the general safety of electricity. Most have probably seen substandard electrical installations in southern Europe, where incoming electricity to a property can be wrapped around a nail in the wall and then taped around balconies and hangers. Furthermore, we do not believe that the safety of, among other things, the Romanian countryside is very high by Swedish standards. The list can probably be made very long regarding substandard European electrical installations. If the European electrical safety standard is to be equivalent, it can be discussed, but we believe that there is a safety aspect that should not be blurred. In addition, our society is high-tech with highly sensitive electrical devices that cannot handle fault couplings or crawl currents. We see that there is a procurement problem regarding subcontractors in several stages – who actually does the jobs, working conditions and quality assurance of statutory competence. There is also a black sector where transparency is non-existent. In reality, it is difficult to control who performs small installations, for example, especially since the minimum price principle is common when ordinary people are going to hire craftsmen. Moreover, if these craftsmen are travelling, door-knocking or rogue operators from less accurate countries, there are a number of problems, ranging from tax liability to insurance and guarantee conditions and the requisite skills. Several of these problems arise not only because the installations themselves are substandard but also because of a lack of legal competence. Let us always look at the reality of legislation in the labour market!
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-748	Mr President, I would like to The subject we are now debating is Report 2015/ 16:FöU12 Electricity Safety. Electricity safety in Sweden is basically good, but of course improvements can be made in some areas. One such area is the legislation on electrical installations. There is a need to clarify the responsibilities of companies, electrical installers and professionals. The position of consumers needs to be strengthened and the supervisory authority's supervisory capacity needs to be improved. The Government decided on 22 August 2013 to instruct a special investigator to review the regulations on electrical installations. The investigation took the name "Electricity Investigation". Mr President, I would like to As early as 29 January 2014, we touched on the issue of electrical safety in the Committee on Defence's report on Radiation Protection, Nuclear Safety and Explosives, etc. We then had a relatively tense and good debate in this House. So the rye is not new to us here in Parliament. Since December 2014, the investigator submitted his report on Electricity Safety – a management issue to the government, which has also been referred to. At present, there is no comprehensive regulation of electrical safety. It is necessary, on the one hand, to give greater weight to these issues and, on the other hand, to ensure that coherent regulation of electrical safety can increase transparency and simplify the application of the rules. The current regime that electricity installers are a regulated profession has worked well and should be maintained. However, the responsibility for carrying out electrical installation work in a way that meets the requirements for safe electrical installations needs to be attached to the operation and to the provider of the electrical installation service, i.e. the electrical installation company. There is currently no requirement for electrical installation work to be carried out in such a way that the installation provides adequate security against personal or property damage. A general care rule is needed for electrical installation work. Mr President, I would like to In order to ensure that electrical installations meet the requirements on the basis of the prudential requirement and that they are carried out by persons with sufficient professional knowledge, provisions on the self-monitoring of electrical installation companies are needed. The committee supports the Government's proposal for the Electricity Safety Act, the Act amending the Electricity Act and the Act on Hotel and Guest Houses. The new provisions essentially mean that all undertakings carrying out electrical installation work must have an authorised electrical installer and a self-control programme to ensure that the work has been carried out correctly and by persons with the right skills. Furthermore, the changes require undertakings carrying out electrical installation work at someone else's plant to notify their activities to the regulatory authority. Both electrical installations companies and employees' organisations welcome the proposed legislative changes and welcome their decision. It is time to make these changes. Ultimately, consumers benefit from clarification of the responsibility of electrical installations in the event of failure. Mr President, I would like to In view of the above, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-758	Mr President, I would like to Our committee colleague, Peter Jeppsson, has carefully reviewed the opinion of the majority of committees on this issue, so I intend to concentrate more on the minority's way of arguing. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the Swedish Democrats to be rejected. Otherwise, I agree with what Peter Jeppsson has said. The requirement for an electrical installation is that the person performing the work should have training, practice, experience and also be assessed appropriately – a summary of the long text. If you then say yes to all three criteria, you can become an electrical installer in Sweden. It is a so-called regulated profession, which the installation professions often are, but there are more regulating professions. In order to make the industry work, an interaction between companies, electrical installers and professionals is required. If there is no market, there will be no electrical installers, nor will there be any possibility for professionals to work. The increase in mobility in Europe, which may be considered by some to be a difficulty and a problem, is seen by others as Europe's progress. We now have greater cross-border mobility for businesses, and competition is increasing. Freedom of movement within the EU and the EEA must be protected and should not be hindered by establishing our own rules on how our Swedish professionals in Swedish companies should operate. There is a professional qualification directive which regulates how to recognise and approve the qualifications of all EU and EEA nationals who will function well. I personally believe that there is little difference between a German electrical installer, a Swiss electrical installer or a Swedish one. And I do not share the uncertainty raised by my colleague, Mikael Jansson, regarding installers from Italy and perhaps other parts of Europe. It is clear that we must safeguard the mobility that we have found, not only for capital and companies, but also for those who work there. SD plays on a stranger's fear that is completely unnecessary in terms of electrical safety in Sweden. The report submitted by the majority of committees shows that we do not have to worry about the security of electricity if a German electrical installer should happen to come here after he has received recognition of his qualifications. The committee has therefore considered that those who come here temporarily to practise the electrical installation profession by means of the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications will also be able to make efforts. In Sweden we are talking about competition. If there is a place where we need competition, it is probably in the construction market and in electricity installations, where there is a shortage of professionals. We would need to have a greater flow of skilled people to Sweden to solve all the bottlenecks that exist. We therefore want more qualified people to come to Sweden. The Swedish Democrats do not want that.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-769	Mr President, I would like to Enemy hostility? No, it's more about the fact that electrical installations are quite sensitive. In Sweden we have a very high level of security in this area, and so we would like it to continue. It is certainly the same in Germany and Switzerland, if one is to mention these particular countries. We want the long-term safety of electricity to be good in all countries. We can treat all peoples to that. But most of all, we take care of our own situation, that we should not impair security here. Competition is, of course, good in the long term, but in this case it is not competition on the same terms. They work with much lower wages and have different conditions than the Swedish electrical installers. We can be humbled by the fact that there are many different competences and a plethora of qualifications. Herein lies our point too. It is legally unclear what temporary professional practice actually means. What qualifications do the other Member States have, and what verification do they have that the qualifications are actually met for each electrical installer coming here?
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-774	Mr President, I would like to I have two comments. First of all, it is a mistake to think that there are lower wages when doing work in Sweden. On the one hand, the Posting of Workers Directive prevents it, and on the other, most large construction and electricity companies in Sweden work according to Swedish rules and with Swedish collective agreements. Secondly, it is not up to me and Mikael Jansson to determine qualifications. With the Act on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, qualified people are allowed to assess in each case whether an electrical installer who wants to work in Sweden has the qualifications required to practise the profession in Sweden.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-776	Mr President, I would like to In the case of electricians, some kind of competition has prevented it from establishing itself as many electrical installers from the EU countries in Sweden. I don't think it's the price picture, it's the security thing that's gone wrong. It has not been able to establish itself in Sweden, because it is not felt able to build as safe electrical installations. Mrs Klackenberg may have replied to this earlier, but I would still like to ask: ‘This competence is a temporary professional, is it the EU or is it a control programme of its own that will decide who is allowed to be a temporary professional?' I think it is unclear.
i-e6e4f7cd2d301331-778	Mr President, I would like to That it would be competition that would have deterred foreign entrepreneurs from coming here and establishing themselves in the electrical installation market, I do not believe a thing about. Of course, it has been perceived as difficult to come here. We hope that this legislation, supported by the majority in committee, will make it easier for foreign companies to come to Sweden, because it is needed. As I said, if you apply the law on the recognition of professional qualifications, you will be able to assess whether even a Romanian electrical installer meets the requirements that we set in Sweden to have a good level of electrical safety.
