i-04085bc1b2a7da66-0	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me how I and the government view the countless migrations of asylum seekers in Sweden and whether we have proposals to address the problems that arise in this way. The government is well aware of the problem raised by Jesper Skalberg Karlsson and intends to take measures to create a more coherent reception system that promotes the establishment opportunities and reduces the number of migrations for asylum seekers and new arrivals. Many of those who move as asylum seekers today have to do is because the temporary housing that the Migration Agency has procured is now being closed down. From 2018, the Finnish Immigration Service expects to use only their own accommodations, which means that asylum seekers will live in the same place to a much greater extent than today throughout the asylum period. At the turn of the year, the Finnish Immigration Service takes over responsibility for instructions to municipalities regarding new arrivals. The Government is currently preparing the question that the Migration Agency, when possible within the framework of the municipal numbers, will assign persons to the same municipality in which they have lived during the period of asylum. The government intends to come back to this. The Government has also set up an investigation which, among other things, has the task of analysing and proposing an appropriate system for the reception of asylum seekers, new arrivals and unaccompanied minors. The study will also analyse how actions supporting future establishment in society and working life can enter asylum reception. The report shall report on its work by 31 October 2017. These measures aim to reduce the number of migrations and also the problems that arise around them. My answer to the question is therefore: yes, we have proposals on how to reduce the number of migrants, and we have set up a study that will propose, from an overall perspective, an appropriate system for the reception of asylum seekers, new arrivals and unaccompanied minors, where the opportunities for establishment are promoted.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister for your answer. Sometimes it's as simple as a yes. I am pleased that the government is working on the issue of a proximity principle for new arrivals, because the current situation is in many ways unreasonable. Let me do a quick recap. In 2015, Sweden received 163 000 asylum seekers, which was a doubling from the previous year and more than a fivefold since 2011. In a short time, tens of thousands of people were placed in temporary dwellings scattered throughout the country. As a result, the time for examining a residence permit has skyrocketed, which is not surprising. This means that around Sweden there are people waiting to hear about a residence permit. Many will have to wait more than a year from the date of their application. During that time, many will be able to take root in their respective societies. Young people are placed in primary and secondary schools. People are getting involved in their neighbourhood. In short, many asylum seekers will get to know their new home country and probably call it their own. It is therefore strange that when you receive a residence permit, there is a risk that you will be sent to another municipality. During the spring I have met people, some of them young, who will be forced to leave our municipality of Gotland and move to Norrlands kommuner. I don't like Norrland, but it's an odd way of handling that young people who have been looking forward to playing football during the summer break are suddenly forced to move to Luleå. It would be more desirable if those who receive a residence permit were placed primarily in the municipality in which they were in the probationary period, provided that accommodation is available there – a so-called proximity principle for new arrivals. If it were the guiding principle, it would have several advantages. First of all, civil society would be encouraged to take a fairly long-term responsibility from the start, as the people involved in it would not be forced to move after a few months. Municipal integration efforts could take place from day one, as the municipal politicians would not have to worry about losing their investment in these people when they are going to redo the process in the next municipality. Moreover, it should not be underestimated that moving is a rather exhausting process, not least for children, when forced. In short, it is neither resource efficient, legitimate nor desirable for a number of municipalities to act as locks for asylum seekers. In a way, it says itself that no profit is made when an asylum seeker who receives a residence permit in Umeå is forced to move to Visby just to change places with an asylum seeker who makes the reverse journey. On the contrary, it would be more desirable for a principle of proximity to be guided, for that would save both the state and the municipalities and the individual people both time and money. That is why I would like to put a follow-up question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. Why did the migration agreement of 2015 not address the problem of these relocations? Was it because you didn't see the problem... wasn't it on the table? Or has the scope become known only in 2016?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-16	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we are now through the reception crisis that we had last year. As Jesper Skalberg Karlsson pointed out, we received 163 000 asylum seekers last year, 114 000 of them in the last four months of September – December. We managed to give them shelter and food for the day from the first day, with some exception. But most of them we could handle. In January we had 150 000 people waiting for decisions. During the year, the Finnish Immigration Service has dealt with many of the applications and at very high speed. So far this year, more than 100 000 decisions have been taken and will probably be taken this year up to 115 000 decisions in total, which is the highest number ever. It's causing the queues to drop. From the time we had 150 000 in January waiting for a decision, in November we were down to 80 000. There are still very many, but it is still a clear improvement. It shows that it is moving in the right direction. 100 000 decisions have been taken so far this year, 59% in favour. I believe that Sweden will be doing well. They will be the strongest labour market we have had in many years in Sweden. I am not particularly concerned about the labour market. On the other hand, it has been and is a problem with the narrow housing sector, namely to build up the housing shortage that we certainly inherited from the bourgeois government in 2014. But the situation has become even more challenging when we have got a lot of new arrivals that we will also arrange housing for. We have now made sure to reverse developments. This year alone, we expect more than 60 000 new homes to be built in Sweden. It is a sharp increase of almost 50 percent in just a few years and the highest in over 40 years. So we are in the process of catching up. But this is otherwise the narrow sector. I can see now that you do a lot of work all over the country to get through this. But if we are to do this, all municipalities must accept – we must share responsibility. It cannot only be the municipalities that have asylum homes that should take responsibility. Nor can it be only Social Democratic municipalities that should take responsibility, but all municipalities must be prepared to take responsibility. Therefore, it was a great success when, in connection with the Migration Agreement a year ago, the Moderates gave up their opposition to the principle that all municipalities should take responsibility. We now have legislation in place. Now I think the Moderates should also deliver some leadership in this, because we see how a number of municipalities, e.g. Ekerö and a couple of others in the Stockholm area, do not want to take their responsibility. It would be good if the Moderates lived up to their share, for if we are to do this, all the municipalities must be prepared to take responsibility. The relocations are a consequence of us having made all these decisions and now going out of a large amount of accommodation. Just as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson points out, it should be a principle to try to make room for these people in the municipality where they already live within the framework of the municipal numbers that exist. Such a proximity principle will be included in the regulatory letter, and we will decide on that on Thursday.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-25	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson for his reply. Let me say two things about this answer. The first concerns the labour market and that those who receive a residence permit in Sweden will go out to a strong labour market where demand is high. I'm not sure about that. It is not because I have doubts about whether the economy in Sweden is going well, because it is. As long as the job tax deductions are effective, the economy will in some sense be tough on. Sweden is generally quite good at integration. In the OECD, we are among the best. But when it comes to labour market integration, we are among the worst. It has structural explanations, not economic ones. The second is that the Minister says that it is moderate-led municipalities that now need to take responsibility for the reception and live up to the migration agreement. Let me nuance that picture a little. I am not sure that the government is keeping its side of the migration agreement. Simplified building regulations have been promised, but Peter Eriksson's proposals are few and small. Add to that that we see municipalities in the Stockholm area say: Stop and prove! We're not gonna make it through our reception. This not only says moderate-led municipalities like Ekerö and Täby. Even the City of Stockholm has said stop, and a week ago Social Democraticly led Järfälla said stop, even though only a few months ago it shouted that moderate-led municipalities were unsolidary. I would like to say that the problem is perhaps more Stockholm-based than moderate-based. Enough about that. Regarding the principle of proximity for newcomers, it is surprising that, although it was well known, it has taken such time. For example, the Interpellation response contains this text: The Government is currently preparing the question that the Migration Agency, when possible within the framework of the municipal numbers, will assign persons to the same municipality in which they have lived during the period of asylum. The government intends to come back to this. ..................................................... The Minister of Migration says a regulatory letter will be sent on Thursday. That makes me happy because it means that the work is done. It is unfortunate if we agree that a principle of proximity for new arrivals is desirable and that it then fails when it disappears in investigations and preparations. We should not have to wait for the government's investigation into a holistic approach to reception when we can already see today a specific problem with a solution that is both effective and relatively easy to implement. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister for Migration is taking this decision on Thursday and that he is already telling us about it today. Otherwise, I hope that the government will honour its part of the migration agreement. Basically, it is a good agreement, but a prerequisite for it to be effective is that all parties keep their share.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-40	Mr President, I would like to The economy is going well. We had growth of almost 4 percent last year, and this year it is up to 31⁄2 percent. If there is such strong growth at the bottom, the labour market will also be boosted. Unemployment is falling, long-term unemployment is falling and youth unemployment is falling. We have 100,000 vacancies. There are more vacancies than we've ever had, if we look back. I sometimes use something I call the tidal theory. As the water rises all the boats lift up, also the boats that lie a little deeper in the water. In other words, even those who are a little further away from the labour market will find it easier to find a job if the whole labour market grows. This is what we are seeing now. But it doesn't happen by itself. It must be supplemented by training so that those entering the labour market have the right training to take up the jobs that are emerging. It was not the job tax deductions that lifted Sweden, t worth it. The more job tax deductions you introduced, the higher the unemployment rate. It was higher unemployment when you left government power in 2014 than when you took office in 2006. What is now lifting Sweden is investments in housing construction and infrastructure, as well as investments in schools, health care and other things in public. For example, 13 000 more people have been employed at school in recent years. This is what has led to the improvement of the labour market. Let me say a few words about the principle of proximity. It was a concern that too much of the reception was privatised during the last period. They had too small a suit of their own with about 25,000 seats. The rest was bought by Bert Karlsson and others. When faced with a major reception challenge, they quickly had to try to buy up places. As a result, they eventually had nearly 100 000 asylum homes. This is what has led to the large relocations. For the future, we have expanded the reception capacity and have many more places of our own. We also have control over the influx. This means that we will not again have to experience the kind of relocations we now see. We also complement the principle of proximity.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-47	Mr President, I would like to The Minister speaks of the economy as a tide. I would like to contrast with another comparison. They say when the tide comes back, you can see who's been bathing naked. I believe that this is significant for the Swedish economy. In monetary policy, the dampers are open, and we have negative interest rates in Sweden. In fiscal policy, the surplus target is missed, and Magdalena Andersson will rewrite the fiscal framework. When the crisis comes back – and it does, because the economic cycle goes up and down – Sweden is quite ill-equipped for the challenges that come because the structural problems remain. They were only hidden when the tide was high. Back to the principle of proximity, which my interpellation was originally about. There are different views on how many refugees Sweden should and can receive. There are those who are satisfied and believe that nothing needs to be done. There are those who believe that the border can be open and that housing only exists. There are those who want to return to the number that was at Göran Persson's time. There are, as I said, differences of opinion. No matter what number, level or ambition you land on, you should agree that the process for those who are here should now be effective. It serves society, individuals and the state. I therefore look forward to the introduction of a principle of proximity for new arrivals by Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. That would be a real win reform.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-52	Mr President, I would like to As I said, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson only needs to wait a few days on the principle of proximity because we will decide on the regulatory letter on Thursday. Regarding the picture of the tide: If you bathe in tidal waters, you are at great risk of drowning. You should watch out for that. My point was that when the water rises, it's easier for everyone to get a job. If the water starts to sink, there must be someone ready to help. That is why we have things like social security and a strong public sector. That is my conclusion to this picture too – that is, the importance of having a basic general welfare policy. This picture of nature is also different from the economy in the sense that we can have some effect on the economy itself. Policies that we take affect economic activity. My point was that during the last period, when you reduced taxes, there were no jobs, but rather unemployment. The jobs come now, when we use the economic space for investment instead. For example, we build housing, we build infrastructure and we invest in the public sector. It is this fundamental ideological question that exists between Social Democrats and Moderates. With regard to what we are talking about, namely the principle of proximity and the distribution of asylum seekers, all municipalities must be prepared to take responsibility for the long-term functioning of this. Unfortunately, it is probably primarily moderate municipalities that have not done this over the years and who also do not want to do it now. I call for a clearer moderate leadership on this point. When it comes to the question of whether to stay in a municipality, I think it is reasonable to try to take it into account as much as possible. That is why we are entering this in the regulation letter now on Thursday.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-59	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me what measures I and the government will take to ensure that more people who have been refused their asylum application return voluntarily and whether I intend to take any action within my area of responsibility to implement further expulsion decisions. In order to maintain a long-term sustainable and humane migration policy, it is crucial that persons who, after a legally secure examination for asylum reasons, have received a negative decision on whether to leave their country of origin or to return to another country as quickly as possible. The high number of asylum seekers in 2015 means that the number of returnees is expected to increase in the coming years. Achieving a more effective return is therefore an important issue for the government. The government has taken a number of measures to improve return. Until November 17,859 people have left Sweden during the year, which is an increase of 35 per cent compared to 2015. Changes to the legislation have been made with a view to the voluntary return of more persons who have been refused their asylum application. As a general rule, since 1 June 2016, single persons over 18 years of age lose the right to daily allowance and housing if they have a removal decision or removal decision that has become final. In the regulations to the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Correctional Service for 2016, the Government has commissioned the authorities to streamline the implementation of expulsion decisions. The government has also provided additional resources to the relevant authorities. Work is currently under way within the Ministry to review what further measures may need to be taken in relation to the reporting of the mission made by the authorities at the end of November. In addition, special return liaison officers have been deployed to the foreign authorities of Kabul, Tbilisi, Amman, Rabat and Nairobi to support the authorities in their return work on the ground. The government has also taken steps to increase the country's detention capacity. Since 1 October, 100 new temporary detention centres have been operational, and on 30 November, the Migration Agency presented a plan for a long-term increase in detention places. On 22 September, the government presented additional measures for a legally secure and better functioning return. They include the possibility for the police to carry out workplace inspections to check that employers do not use people who are not allowed to stay in Sweden, measures to establish the identity of persons who can be presumed to be in the country without a residence permit and improved rules for detention. The various measures are currently being prepared, and concrete legislative changes may be in place in 2017 and 2018.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-65	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Migration for his reply. This interpellation touches on the very cornerstone of a regulated migration policy, namely that a yes is a yes and a no is a no. Anyone who has asylum reasons should be given a place of refuge in our country, and anyone who has no such reason should return home. Over the last two years, up to a quarter of a million people have come to Sweden and applied for asylum. This means that a very large number of them will be granted a residence permit, but it also means that a large number will not receive it. In this context, the government itself has pointed out that 80 000 – 100 000 people will be refused their asylum applications – a figure that is unique to Sweden. While we are having this interpellation debate today, a vast shadow society is spreading – a society in which men and women live in the deepest of exclusion and where children are born into this exclusion, with very serious consequences. At this year's entrance, the police had 21,000 expulsion cases. The Migration Board estimates that approximately 46 000 people will go underground in the coming years after having received a no. If you sum up this, it is about nearly 70 000 people. Think about it — 70,000 people! This corresponds roughly to the size of a medium-sized Swedish city. All experience shows that in order to prevent this, efforts must be made before the shadow society has bitten on. Once this has been done, it is usually difficult to manage it. The reply given to me by the Minister for Migration seems to me to give the impression that the return is now improving. I'd say that's a truth with great modification. It is a bit the same beautiful-weather policy that led Sweden into the refugee crisis. The fact that more people return home is quite natural given that many more people have applied for asylum in Sweden. It is so obvious that it should not really be said. At the same time, much of this year's figure can be explained by the fact that more people have withdrawn their asylum applications. The Finnish Immigration Service writes in its forecast that they are expected to be fewer in the coming years, and even the number of unfounded applications is expected to decrease. This is in itself a good thing, but it also means that voluntary return is expected to decrease in the coming years. We also know that the return to Iraq and Afghanistan will need to increase. These are countries that we know are often difficult to execute expulsions and expulsions to. So, if we sum up, voluntary return will be reduced. This means that more people need to be enforced by force. That is the critical point. Let me quote from the government's own budget proposal: This means, therefore, that while more people are being rejected and more people are going underground, enforcement is being reduced by coercion. This is very problematic. We do not see any improvement in the work on forced return; on the contrary, we see a deterioration while the challenges are greater than ever before. Mr President, I would like to How do you deal with this? The agreement we reached last autumn on the abolition of daily allowances is an important element. It is a clear signal, but it is clear that it will not be enough. Equally obvious is that the efforts that have been made or that are to be made on more police officers will be insufficient. I'll get back to it. I would like to take this opportunity to say that we must be very clear throughout the asylum process. Financial assistance shall not be granted to persons who have been refused their asylum application and who are therefore residing without authorisation in the country. To pay while waiting for travel documents can be okay, but to go in and pay rent as you do in Malmö, for example, or as the minister's party colleagues in Stockholm now want to do I mean is the wrong way. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Migration how he views the fact that his party colleagues in several major cities are now doing this.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-78	Mr President, I would like to It is fascinating to hear how Johan Forssell continues to criticize his own former moderate-led government. He calls it a bit of a fancy t-weather policy. It can't be fun for former moderate ministers to have to hear, but it's a question you'll have to sort out between you. What lies ahead is, above all, two major challenges. One is the establishment of those who may stay. I think, as I said, they will do well. They are the strongest labour market we have had in many years. We are building up the housing shortage, and we have a very high rate of production in terms of housing. The other is about those who can't stay. The basic principle is that if you have been rejected, you should return home. The number of people leaving Sweden has increased, as I said in my answer. Voluntary return has increased significantly. As has been said, the total number that has left Sweden during the year amounts to 17 800. I believe that up to 20 000 will have left Sweden before the end of the year. This is a sharp increase compared to last year. Besides, there are no more who deviate. If we go back a year, it was about 10,000 who deviated – about the same number that have deviated so far. Of course, it is not good when people deviate, but at the same time it is quite remarkable that no more people do so, when we have so many rejections. I therefore argue that the return is working better now than before. Why does it work better? Yes, it is because we have increased the resources to the police and given the police a clear mandate to carry out and ensure that more people return. We have 100 new detention sites that we use. We have the new legislation which eliminates compensation and housing, that is, what we agreed on. We have the liaisons we've deployed. We have a new agreement with Afghanistan that did not exist before. And we have the return allowance, that is to say, you get support to restart your life in the country from which you come. We are now using ten times as much for this as we did last year, and I think it has been very important. For example, over 800 have returned to Afghanistan this year. Almost 3 000 have been allocated to Iraq this year. Johan Forssell said it was difficult to get people to return there, but it actually works. The question remains, then, what happens to those who do not return voluntarily and those whom we do not manage to ensure by force that they return. One must be clear that there will be no good life for those who will remain here in Sweden without a residence permit. I guess you'd have to say that anyway. We must do what we can to ensure that such a parallel society is not established, as the interpellier points out. One of the proposals we have put forward is to make it possible for workplace inspections to be carried out. I believe that there is a great risk that employers will take advantage of this situation, that people will have to work for SEK 30 an hour and live in a basement and that these people will be exploited. I have seen that there are mixed messages from the opposition on this issue. The Center has said that they absolutely do not want any workplace inspections. They obviously want to protect the employers who exploit these people. But I have not heard a clear position from the Moderates on this issue. My question to Johan Forssell is therefore: how will you approach workplace inspections? Will you be in favour of this opportunity, even if the Center has said no?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-88	Mr President, I would like to It is the Finnish Immigration Service that has made the assessment that it is difficult to expel people under coercion to Afghanistan. I'm saying this to make it clear to the Minister for Migration. As for what should have been done in the past – we often end up in such debates – I always come back to the fact that more should have been done in the past. Nor do I think that anyone who has followed the debate on migration policy has missed the fact that the Moderates have been very clear about this. On the other hand, I have not been able to hear much self-criticism from the Minister for Migration. I wonder if Morgan Johansson is really the right person to criticise the Moderates for this. Morgan Johansson, in his previous profession according to Sydsvenskan in March 2013, made the message: The government should tell the police to give priority to this – that is, housing offences – instead of the expulsions. Instead, Morgan Johansson took the opportunity to criticise the government for doing too much in this area. I think that is quite astonishing, and everyone has to judge with what credibility the Minister for Migration stands here today and thinks that others have done too little. Well, I'll sum up. We therefore know that forced return has been reduced while the challenges are greater than before. The Migration Agency points out that within a few years almost 70 000 people can live in Sweden without permission – a completely new shadow society that we have not seen before. We also know that action must be taken before this shadow society has developed. Then we from the Moderates have said a few things. First of all, we need more police officers to execute these expulsions. We have indicated at least 2 000 people. This also requires additional resources. Then I don't mean the government's so-called 100 million-dollar investment next year. I don't think anyone except the government thinks it's a very big venture. I think we also need clear leadership at the top of the Police Authority. We have now informed the opposition as a whole that we lack confidence in the Head of the National Police. In the newspapers I have been able to see that it is now 1 percent of the Swedish people who have great confidence in him. We have also said that we want to take stock of the situation. We still do not know how many people actually reside in Sweden without permission. We need more knowledge. We need a substantial expansion of detention operations. We from the Moderates have proposed another 100 seats in addition to what the government has proposed. We need a business throughout Sweden. It is untenable that what lies far north today is in Gävle. We need a double, or perhaps even abolished, limitation period. It is today four years. Then the police stop looking. Four years in this context is a rather short time and, as I said, it should at least double. Then we need to be clear that financial assistance should not go to people who reside without permission in Sweden. Paying less money while waiting for people to get their travel documents can be one thing. But if you support people for a long time and pay the rent, you send out double signals. Consider the clarity of the following: Apply for asylum and receive no. Break court orders and go underground. Then I'll give you money. I didn't get an answer from Morgan Johansson about how he feels about the fact that the party colleagues in Malmö or Stockholm, for example – we have been able to read about this in the past week – are now taking steps in this direction. There is a risk that the other measures will be taken. Instead of reducing the shadow society, they cement it. When the government presented its proposal on workplace inspections, I said we should look at this. I think that might be justified. We'll look at it when there's more material about it. But I definitely don't rule that out. That is about the clear message that I can give now before I have read more about it. But I would also appreciate it if I could get a reply from the Minister for Migration about the party colleagues in Stockholm and Malmö.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-103	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that more people leave Sweden this year than last year. That's an increase of over 30%. Then Johan Forssell says that there are no more who are rejected by force. It is as if it would be some kind of self - purpose to reject people under compulsion. Why are more people returning voluntarily now than it was before? This is because, among other things, we use the start-up aid ten times as much as we did last year. Then we had about 200 such errands. Now we have about 2 000 such cases. It is not an end in itself to reject people with coercion when you can do it on a voluntary basis and it works. Over 17 000 people in such cases have left Sweden so far this year. I'd say it'll be up to 20,000 before this year's end. There's more than before. There are no more who deviate. If you go back a few years, you see a figure of about 10,000. It's always hard to know where these people go. Some leave Sweden without us knowing about it. Others, as I said, risk going underground. One of the things that is now most effective is the increased efforts of the border police. We have gone in with more resources and a clear mission, both to the police and to the Prison Service's transport service, to facilitate this. Johan Forssell sees this as well now, not least when it comes to the discussion in Malmö about the border police, which for example asks social services in Malmö about addresses. They have the right to do so under the Aliens Act. It is an effect of the missions that the police have received. We're not just going in with $100 million to the police. Over the next few years, we will go in with up to 2 billion to the police. We're going to have to hire more police officers and more civilian employees. But, as I said, it is not an end in itself to use the police to reject people when you can do it voluntarily within the framework of the Migration Agency. It is therefore a question of increased travel urses to the police, 100 new places for sale, the new legislation and the agreement with Afghanistan. It is true that it was difficult to forcely deport to Afghanistan before we had an agreement. Now we have an agreement that we negotiated last autumn. This means that Afghanistan will also commit itself to receiving those people who are being rejected under coercion. We also have an agreement with Iraq in that part. A total of over 800 people have gone back to Afghanistan only this year, and nearly 3,000 have gone back to Iraq this year. These are very high figures. I believe that what is now needed is that in the labour market there are no more foamed-up stories that exploit people who are in a difficult situation. We've seen too much of it. Then Johan Forssell says that he should look at this and that he does not exclude workplace inspections. But does he not understand how important this is? Otherwise, we risk the exploitation of people and the distortion of competition. Some stores and taverns may have people washing dishes for 10 kroner an hour, while others who are more accurate will not. Then competition will be distorted. As far as the issue of social security is concerned, I will say that it is a municipal decision. I do not intend to interfere with the balance that the municipalities have made, but I can only say that the police have the opportunity to collect data on people receiving financial assistance. This is happening now, among other things in Malmö.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-113	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that the Minister for Migration is surprisingly satisfied in the light of the developments we are now seeing. We can back up the tape again. Thus, their own forecasts indicate that within a few years there may be 70 000 people living in Sweden without a permit. It is a shadow society we have never seen before, with an associated social exclusion that is something completely new. Who takes responsibility for these people? Who takes responsibility for the children who will be born into the alienation? The Minister for Migration says that it is about to be resolved, even though we know, therefore, that voluntary return is expected to decline in the coming years. The Finnish Immigration Service has written this in its own prognosis. At the same time, forced return has been reduced. Thus, when the needs are greater than ever before, forced return goes down. That is the reality we now have to deal with. The government is taking small steps in the right direction, but I think that is far from enough. If we are to prevent the shadow society from reaching the number of people I mentioned, we must take action now, before it is in place. When the shadow society is in place, the risk is that it is too late. There's a whole series of things that need to be done. Hearing the Minister for Migration talk about big investments in the police is very strange in the light of the fact that they are years ahead. Next year there will be SEK 100 million. It's a lot of money, but in this context it's very little. We from the Moderates have given a direct answer: we want 2 000 police officers in the near future, and we have budgeted for it. With regard to supply support, it is strange that the Minister for Migration would like to have views on different municipalities and what they do and do not do – every time. When it comes to his own party colleagues in Skåne, where the Minister for Migration is based, or in Stockholm, however, he does not want any opinion. I find that a very strange attitude. I hope the Minister for Migration will listen to the Moderates' proposals. Let me also conclude by wishing him, as well as the President and colleagues, a Merry Christmas!
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-119	Mr President, I would like to The difference is that we then last spring have an instruction law that says that all municipalities should receive. That is where I call for moderate leadership, to try to ensure that the Moderates at the municipal level live up to what we have agreed at the central level. You haven't really made that clear, Johan Forssell, and that's a difference. In fact, the concern for the police has not been financial. The police have had surpluses in recent years, and it is in fact surplus that we are now postponing to next year. Instead, the problem has concerned the reorganisation. The Moderates say we're going to have 2,000 police officers in the near future, but it takes a number of years to train police officers. Even if the Moderates were conjuring their knees, they wouldn't be able to quickly find new cops. On the other hand, civil servants can be employed, which we are now doing. They can do some of the tasks that police officers do today and that they might not do. Instead, police officers can engage in police duties. During this year, we have increased the number of civilian employees by nearly 600 people who can do what police officers have done in the past. Then resources and police hours will be released. Who takes responsibility? As I said, voluntary return has increased. There is no point in engaging in forced return when people can be motivated to go home themselves, voluntarily. That is, of course, much better – for all parties, I would say. That's 17 800 so far this year. There are almost 3 000 to Iraq and over 800 to Afghanistan, and then there are the other countries. That is an increase of over 30% in just one year. Of course we have to do more, but it cannot be said that it is not going in the right direction. As a matter of fact, it does. It is a big, difficult and ethically rather problematic issue, but we must be prepared to deal with it. Finally, I would also like to wish Johan Forssell a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-125	Mr President, I would like to Sotiris Delis has asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take to make the Migration Agency's asylum management more cost-effective. The Government has taken several initiatives to make the Migration Agency's asylum management more cost-effective. One of the measures was to give the Migration Agency the task of shortening the processing times and increasing the productivity of asylum applications in both the short and long term. The Finnish Immigration Service has subsequently decided on a new working method for the processing of asylum cases and on processing measures. The outcome has been improved productivity. Contrary to what Sotiris Delis indicates, the Migration Board's latest forecast shows that productivity looks to increase compared to both 2015 and 2014 and is at approximately the same level as the two years before. The increase compared to the last two years is taking place despite the fact that there are several factors that have a negative impact on productivity. For example, the Migration Agency has since the entry into force of the Temporary Act dealt with two parallel legislations, which increases the complexity of the proceedings. The Government's efforts in the form of increased funds, which enabled the Migration Agency to carry out necessary and strong staff reinforcements in a short time, have initially had a negative impact on productivity. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that measures taken will lead to further productivity gains in the coming years. The Government has also taken steps to increase the conditions for asylum seekers who have appealed against the decision of the Finnish Immigration Service to obtain a swift final decision in order to reduce the length of stay in the reception of the Finnish Immigration Service. The Migration Agency, the Migration Courts, the Migration Court of Appeal and the National Court of Justice have been tasked with continuing to streamline the processing of asylum cases and asylum cases precisely in order to achieve shortened periods of stay in the reception system. Sotiris Delis suggests that the Migration Agency wrongly assumes the entire responsibility for investigation in the first instance of the asylum process. As in other administrative cases, the burden of proof lies in principle with the applicant. However, the Finnish Immigration Service's investigation responsibilities in asylum matters are very extensive, as can be seen from general principles of administrative law, the preparatory work on the Aliens Act and the decisions of the Swedish Migration Court of Appeal and the European Court of Human Rights. In order to continue the streamlining of the asylum process, the Government intends to take further action in 2017. These are currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-132	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. According to the Swedish Parliament's Investigation Service's report on the costs of the Finnish Immigration Service's processing times, the reception of asylum seekers cost a total of 17 billion for the 100 000 registered with the Finnish Immigration Service. The amount depends on the choice of the variable costs between 5.8 and 16.6 billion krono r. As far as variable costs are concerned, I believe that efficiency improvements can be made. The Government did not touch a single number in its response to me, which means that I have to address any problems with the Finnish Immigration Service's activities. I wish to have them commented. The Finnish Immigration Service is now prioritising asylum matters with probable consent. It is faster, which explains the increases in the number of cases decided referred to by the Minister. This also leads to other cases, and this is typically more complex cases. As a result, we can expect a deterioration in productivity in the future. Thus, today's improvement can be expected to be swallowed by a deterioration. How does the Government comment on that? The Finnish Immigration Service has employed the equivalent of 2 000 new annual labour forces within a year and received very much increased resources. If this does not lead to more cases that have been settled with quality, that would be something of a scandal. What does the Government do in concrete terms to meet these reinforcements with increased efficiency? Mr President, I would like to The issue of a work permit is an important part of the Finnish Immigration Service's activities. However, we hear repeated stories about long waiting times that affect individuals and companies negatively. This is not reasonable at the moment. One must get the work permit business to work, not least in view of the large resource supplements the Migration Agency has received. What is the Government doing to ensure this? An internal report last summer concerning the Migration Agency stated that the average number of completed cases per annual worker in an asylum unit was about one per week. This compares with Finland, where the corresponding figure is reported to be four cases per week. Now the Government is talking about improved efficiency, which is of course positive, although it can in any case be partly explained by a priority of cases with probable consent. Against this background, my question is: what is the 2016 figure in terms of the number of completed cases per year worker per week in the asylum services?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-141	Mr President, I would like to The Finnish Immigration Service makes more decisions than ever before. This year, more than 100 000 decisions have been taken – I think the number will reach 115 000. Last month, November, the Migration Agency made 15 000 decisions, which is all-time-high for asylum matters. Sotiris Delis claims that productivity has fallen, but that is exactly the opposite. This is wrong. Productivity has increased. He is asking for figures on the number of asylum cases settled per year's worker, which is our way of measuring effectiveness. Let me draw these figures so that we can include them in Parliament's minutes. Now we are talking about the number of completed asylum cases per year's worker. In 2013 it was 57. In 2014, which was the final year of the Alliance, it was 49. As Sotiris Delis knows, 2015 was marked by a large reception, and it was time to arrange accommodation for a great many people. The number for 2015 was 40. The number for 2016 is 57, which means that we are back on 2013 figures. The forecast for 2017 is 61 completed asylum cases per annual worker. This year we have seen a sharp increase in productivity, both in relation to the Alliance's last year, 2014, and in 2015. That's the case with the numbers. I would like to say that this is quite remarkable, because the increase in productivity is taking place at the same time as we have done a great many new positions. It takes time for the new ones to start making their own decisions and get into the business, but despite this we have gained increased productivity this year. This also applies to the total part. The number of people waiting to receive their asylum declarations has fallen sharply. At the beginning of the year we had 150 000 sitting and waiting; now we are down to 80 000 – the figure for November was 81 000. We're cutting off the lines that occurred last year. The average duration of proceedings is 10.8 months. We should be prepared that it will increase slightly further. That is the situation. This year, the reduced influx of asylum seekers has led to a much lower cost for the Migration Agency than previously thought. I was able to return SEK 6 billion to the Finance Minister in this year's budget. This is money that the Migration Board did not have to use, because the number that comes here has decreased in relation to the previous forecast. The problem right now, I would say, is not really the productivity of the Migration Agency or how to handle matters. The problem right now is that too many people remain on the premises and do not get out in the municipalities. Right now it is a little over 20 000 who have a residence permit but who have not come out in the municipalities. Sotiris Delis can also make a contribution, as it is mainly moderate municipalities that are lagging behind in their reception. If Sotiris Delis wants to exercise leadership on this issue – if he wants to ensure that this works better and that the state costs are reduced – it is a matter of ensuring that the municipalities receive those who have now been granted a residence permit. That's where he can help.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-151	Mr President, I would like to I was here earlier, when the Government debated with my colleagues, and heard exactly the same argument: Go home, the Moderates, and do the job! It is very strange that the Government did not listen to my colleagues' notes and analyses. I dare to say that the number of Social Democratic municipalities in Sweden that violate this – something that the Government refuses to comment – is greater than the number of moderate counterparts. I insist on staying on the fact that in this process there is a lot of money that we have to deal with effectively, and a contented and optimistic Minister makes me even more suspicious. Among other things, the costs of public agencies increase. Here, the Moderates have proposed a ceiling of eight hours for fees at first instance to public assistants – this to increase cost control. I am not sure what the Government thinks of this proposal from the Moderates. I'd be happy to hear that from the government right now.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-155	Just as important as efficiency, although not more important, is the quality of the asylum procedure. Here there are shortcomings in the Migration Agency, as the government itself has pointed out in its budget proposal for 2017. They are good at service and treatment, for example, but they are less good in terms of depth of investigation and evaluation of evidence in asylum matters. What is the Government doing to ensure the quality of the asylum process? Of course, this is always important, not least given the large number of cases that the Migration Agency has now had, and still has, to deal with. Mr President, I would like to Overall, my picture remains that there is a great deal of room for improved efficiency and a more appropriate organisation in relation to the Migration Agency. My question is whether the government is prepared to go in such a direction and to make such a review as would be necessary. If so, is the Government prepared to take on board the proposals to which I refer?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-159	Mr President, I would like to I just pointed out that the most important contribution Sotiris Delis can make if he wants to make an effort to reduce the costs of the state is to facilitate the reception by municipalities of those who have been granted a residence permit so that they can reach the municipalities. As I said, we have over 20 000 people sitting at the Migration Board's accommodations. It is above all moderate municipalities that do not deliver, both historically and now. I am from Skåne and know municipalities like Vellinge very well. Here we have Lidingö, Täby and Danderyd and so on, who historically have not wanted to do anything. They have even made it part of their policy not to accept asylum seekers. Moreover, these municipalities have made it difficult for themselves when they have disposed of their municipal housing companies, so that they do not even have the housing policy tool left to solve the problem. Täby is a municipality where nothing has been built in ten years, and ten years ago it also refused to accept asylum seekers at all. The money from the welfare billions – these 10 billion – they want, but they do not want to do what they should to receive refugees. As I said, the productivity of asylum management has increased. I gave those numbers to Sotiris Delis. Productivity is higher today than in the last year of the Alliance. We are also looking at increased productivity in 2017. Sotiris Delis claims that it has given priority to simple matters that can be accepted. The percentage is 59%, and that is not a startling figure. There are very large groups of Syrians who are being tried, and they get 100% approval in the cases being examined. So that's not a startling figure. If we look ahead, it is probably not a factor that will record. Finally, as far as legal certainty is concerned, I do not wish to impair it in these asylum matters. That's what it would have meant if we'd gone the Moderates' way.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-166	Mr President, I would like to The Government continues to push over government responsibility to the opposition. He says to us, "This is what you did when you were in government." But the question is, what do you do now that you have government power? The Finnish Immigration Service is in need of a new start. It is now a number of months since Director General Anders Danielsson left. What is the time perspective for getting a new Director-General in place for this important authority? There is a value to a regular Head of Government addressing the structural reforms that are so urgently needed. Finally, I would like to thank the Government for the discussion on an urgent and critical subject. I hope that the Government and the Government are prepared to listen as well as – where justified – be prestigeless to meet the challenges ahead. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Government, the Members of this House and the President and the Bureau every success for the coming Christmas and New Year holidays.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-170	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the debate and to point out once again that the Migration Agency is taking more decisions this year than it has ever done before, up to 115 000 decisions. In November alone, 15 000 decisions have been taken – all-time- high. Productivity is increasing. Productivity is higher now than it was in the last year of the Alliance. The outlook for the future shows that productivity will increase even more. This is particularly remarkable in view of the large number of new employees at the Migration Agency. Nevertheless, as I said, productivity has continued to increase. I am not prepared to impair the right to legal counsel in the manner proposed by the Moderates. It is particularly important now to maintain legal certainty. These decisions can relate to life or death for people, and they must have the opportunity to have good legal support during the process. That is why I am not prepared to go the way that the Moderates are directing with regard to legal counsels. Last of all, I would like to wish Sotiris Delis a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I would also like to wish the President of the Bureau and all those who work in this House today.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-174	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what measures I and the government are planning to take to reduce emissions in the transport sector and ultimately achieve the goal of a fossil-free vehicle fleet in 2030. Well-functioning and sustainable transport throughout Sweden is a priority for the government. This includes reducing the climate and environmental impact of the transport sector. During the term of office, the Government has taken a number of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport in line with the objective of a fossil-free Sweden. From 2017, a list of tax rates for petrol and diesel will be applied taking into account developments in GDP. In order to provide continued support for low-emission cars, the Government has proposed an extension of the super-environmental car premium and of the temporary reduction in the benefit value of certain environmentally adapted cars. The strengthening and extension of the Climate Cave helps, among other things, to promote electrification of the vehicle fleet by supporting charging poles and increasing the availability of renewable fuel through biogas production. The electric bus premium contributes to both reduced climate impact and reduced emissions and noise emissions in our urban areas. The government also intends to introduce a bonus – malus system to steer new car sales towards more environmentally friendly cars. The government has also decided on a legislative referral proposing a new category of bearings, BK4, which allows heavier vehicles and combinations of vehicles on certain roads. The proposal to allow 74 tonnes of lorries on parts of the Swedish road network will be included in a planned freight bill. Creating long-term rules for sustainable biofuels is an important part of efforts to achieve a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Renewable fuels should be given a good opportunity to compete with fossil fuels, so that a progressively increasing share of renewable fuels can be achieved. The government will therefore come up with proposals for new rules on financial instruments in this area. We also strengthen the competitiveness of railways and public transport in order to give people and businesses better opportunities to choose climate-smart alternatives. Delays and disruptions in rail traffic shall be met with a strongly reinforced railway maintenance. Work is now changing, and the allocation for operation and maintenance of the railways is increasing by a total of 47 per cent during the period 2018–2029 compared to the period 2014–2025. The government also invests in vibrant and sustainable cities. This is why the urban environment agreements are being strengthened. Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries, and the national environmental quality targets will be met. This not only promotes the climate. It also helps to strengthen innovation in the Swedish industry and create new jobs. The Government's cooperation programme for next generation travel and transport will strengthen cooperation between state, industry and academia to develop, test and demonstrate new solutions for efficient transport. It is therefore not only morally right to have a strong climate policy – it is also economically smart.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-182	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I would like to begin this interpellation debate by taking a small look at the challenges we face on the road to a fossil-free society. In addition to an elongated country, Sweden is also a green pioneer country. Forests are ensured as the cornerstone of the bio-based economy. It is an industry that takes responsibility for reducing its emissions. It is also about innovative companies exporting climate-smart technologies abroad. Sweden is in more ways than a place of thumb for ideas about the new society and the new world that is emerging. It is our forestry principles that produce the highest yield and the greatest environmental benefit. It is the companies that have been set up in Sweden that have now five times their turnover and are creating business opportunities worldwide only with digital prod ucts. It is a rather commendable development. Therefore, it is no wonder that Sweden is a so-called decoupling economy, i.e. an economy where carbon dioxide emissions have been decoupled from the economic growth of its population. This became clear not least during the time of the Alliance in power where a cost-effective environmental and climate policy went hand in hand with growth. During our time in power in 2006 – 2014, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 19 per cent. At the same time, we managed the economic crisis better than any comparable country. What, then, is the next step? Let us look at the challenge of reducing emissions from fossil fuels. Is it in industry that they need to reduce? In fact, to some extent everyone has to contribute. But Swedish export-intensive industry is already at the forefront, whether it is steel or cement. The plants in Sweden have significantly higher environmental standards than their counterparts on the global stage. It would therefore not be desirable for this production to move abroad. Is it in electricity production that we need to reduce emissions? Well, it is really only at the margin that we use fossil fuels for electricity generation. D renewable electricity is increasing sharply, and its volatility is compensated by hydroelectric power, which is our best regulatory power. Add to that that we are a country that is well suited to nuclear power. We are economically, politically and geologically stable. We have long-term rules of play for industry and economy, and a stable tectonic plate, which is quite few granted. That leaves the transports. There is still a job to do here for a reformist government. I am grateful for what Anna Johansson highlighted in her interpellation response: that the environmental car premium and the super-environmental car premium should be extended. It is an effective and effective reform from the time of the Alliance in power. But there are trouble clouds. Emissions in Sweden are increasing, including from the transport sector. That is why it would be natural to look at passenger cars, where the bulk of their emissions is present. Here is the bonus – Malus the great announced reform, and I would like to ask Johansson Minister more specifically about this. What about bonus – malus? The Government has received the investigation but has not returned to the Riksdag. Is bonus – the malus reform prioritised by the government, or are you waiting for the next term of office just as you do with many other environmental efforts?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-192	Mr President, I would like to The investigation into bonus – malus has been handed over to the government. It has been out for a referral and is now being prepared in the Government Office. This is an important reform to make it more attractive to choose a less environmentally friendly car and more disadvantageous to choose a thirsty car. The government is convinced that we will need additional instruments to make it more attractive and beneficial to choose climate-smart alternatives. Of course, this includes how we tax different fuels and how we support the possibilities of expanding alternative fuels in different parts of the country. We are also trying to make it possible to choose public transport solutions in cities, in particular, but also in rural areas. We have several bets that will help in this. With the help of Klimatklivet we have also got a strong expansion of charging stations, which is a prerequisite for more people to dare to choose a rechargeable passenger car. Emission reductions from the passenger car sector have stopped this year. It is above all a matter of increasing transport work, just as it always does when it is booming. Although today a larger proportion of more environmentally friendly cars are being sold, if I may put it that way, this change has not really weighed up the increase in traffic. This means that we need to make further efforts to increase the choice of means of transport other than cars, but also to ensure that more of those who choose a car still choose fuels other than petrol and diesel from fossil sources. This work will be a priority for the government in the coming years. Since there is a broad parliamentary agreement behind the Environmental Objectives Committee, we naturally hope that other parties will also support several of the proposals presented in the coming years. Unfortunately, the party represented by Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, the Moderates, has been very reluctant to support instruments that make it more unfavorable to choose fossil fuels. However, I take the interpellation as if the Moderates are swinging in the matter and welcome it.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-197	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would say that the Moderates are a party that has historically been in favour of economic instruments, but there is an important element if we are to agree to such instruments: they should be technologically neutral, cost-effective and effective. I have doubts as to whether the proposals that have come from the Government Office meet these requirements. A clear example of this is the Climate Cave, one of this government's great parade numbers. For example, at the launch of the Government's Climate Action Initiative, there were no estimates of the emissions reductions that the measures would bring. We think it is strange because it is crucial to know how much emission reduction you get in relation to how much money is spent on it. The Swedish Government has so far invested SEK 600 million annually in the Climate Action Centre without having calculated the climate benefit this brings. In addition, it has been announced that the initiative will be extended without any evaluation of what the programme has done so far – this despite the fact that the predecessor, Klimp, shows that a large part of the investments made had been carried out even if Klimp had not existed. So the additionality was low. Most of what got rid of with the support of Klimp had happened completely regardless of whether the initiative existed. Looking at some of the proposals that have come from the government, one might ask whether this is a serious and concise climate policy when, instead, the money could have been used for new additional investments and investments. A cost-effective and effective policy for a fossil-free vehicle fleet would, in my opinion, include other reforms than those announced so far. For example, the Moderates have a five-point list of political proposals that the government could enforce during this term of office with our support. I believe there is much to do in terms of cost-effective and effective reforms to achieve the objective of a fossil-free vehicle fleet. The whip and carrot are far more effective than the government's current policy, which is really just about raising taxes. Is it not perhaps time, Anna Johansson, that the government broadens its perspective away from simply raising taxes on fuel and instead sees the whole needed to get a fossil-free vehicle fleet? Is it not time to invest in things that lead to new investments? You could invest in what would otherwise not have happened and walk away from the Climate Scene. Transport will depend entirely on whatever it is.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-204	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson from the Moderates brought up the Climate Klivet. I felt I had to comment on it because he frankly said so many errors. Climate change is one of the most important initiatives we have in order for us here in Sweden to be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The initiative means that municipalities, county councils and companies can apply for funds for local and regional projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So far, the Climate Tree has been a success. No less than 582 applications have been submitted to carry out local and regional activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that with the measures taken to date in the context of climate change, emissions have decreased by more than 440 000 tonnes annually. This corresponds to the total emissions from more than 50 000 petrol-powered cars running each turn around the globe. We will remember, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, that many of the municipalities that receive money for projects from the Climate Centre are moderate-led municipalities. Your local politicians think this is a very valuable tool and that it is great to be able to invest in biogas plants, set up charging poles in many different places in the municipality, expand the bicycle infrastructure and do many other important projects. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson said one important thing, namely that measures should be cost-effective. It is good if we can get as much emissions reduction as possible per bet krona. I note that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency makes the assessment that climate change is about twice as cost-effective as our carbon tax. We are getting more reduced emissions compared to the CO2 tax. Both of these tools are obviously needed, but it is good to have several measures in the palette so that we can reduce emissions as quickly as possible. What the Moderates usually put forward as an alternative to climate change is that Sweden should buy cheap and unsafe emission allowances in other countries. So someone else is going to do the work for us. Why should someone else take responsibility for the emissions we cause here in Sweden, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-210	Mr President, I would like to I continue a little bit where Jens Holm left off, namely by arguing for the kind of collaboration that both the climate and the urban environment agreements are an expression of. If we are to achieve success in our climate and environmental work, we need commitment not only from the government but also from municipalities, county councils, companies and organisations. Climate change and the urban environment agreements have the design that the state can go in and support with funding when a local initiative is taken. The climate has so far received 1 000 applications, some 230 of which have been approved. This has resulted in 3,849 new charging points. I do not think that those charging points would have come about, at least not at such a fast pace, if this possibility of co-financing had not existed; the state accounts for about 40% of the funding. In the same way, several municipalities have been given the opportunity to start biogas plants, which is also an important prerequisite for offering alternative fuels in the transport sector. All in all, of course, it is a matter of ensuring that effective measures are taken. But this is also an area where we need to try a lot of different paths. Prohibition of certain things can sometimes be a necessary tool, as well as various types of economic instruments – both whip and carrot in different forms. It is clear from this that it is not true that the government should only work with tax increases as an instrument. We have a wide range of other measures. But for the Moderates, tax increases, even on fossil fuels, are always by definition something you oppose. You are never prepared to use the tax instrument. It's a rather strange attitude. If we now see that we are facing an enormous need for a change, we must well use all the means at our disposal, including tax increases where it is considered to be the most effective way of working. Unfortunately, biofuels have become more expensive in recent years, while petrol and diesel as a result of the low global oil prices have become cheaper. It is clear that there is nothing to promote the choice of alternative fuels for those who are in the choice and qualifying if they are going to refuel one or the other or whether they are going to buy one or the other type of car. Of course, the tax instrument is an instrument that we have in our hands and which we therefore need to use – not alone, but it is also an instrument to use.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-215	Mr President, I would like to There will be a lot of talk about moderate-led municipalities when we debate in this House. As a general answer to both Anna Johansson and Jens Holm, I would say that I do not really believe that M-led municipalities are so alert that the government spends SEK 600 million on something that has not been evaluated. The municipalities have, as it were, problems on the margins with their own tax force. Here we see that the government does not really have any proposals. Tax revenues for municipalities are projected in the government's own budget as a sinking ship, to use a transport-related illustration. The 10 left-wing billions given to municipalities – the 10 welfare billions – disappear almost completely when the compensation for asylum seekers is reduced. But it's a sidetrack. Mr President, I would like to I would say that Sweden has good conditions for becoming a fossil-free country. However, in order to achieve this, a cost-effective and effective policy for Sweden's transport is required. So far, we have had some reforms in life aimed at making fossil fuels more expensive. But I'd say it's a pretty weak consolation for someone who doesn't have an alternative. For example, I, who come from Gotland, cannot take the train to Stockholm. I hope that the government will take the Christmas leave into account and then return to Parliament with a balanced proposal for a bonus – the Malus system. I think you can screw up the investigation that has been carried out and get a balanced reform package that will ultimately serve Sweden well. With that, I wish the President and the Minister a Merry Christmas!
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-219	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the debate. This is an extremely important area. We see that the transport sector accounts for an unreasonably high proportion of total climate emissions in our country but also globally. The government is prepared to take a wide range of measures to counter the developments that we see. Several other sectors have reduced their emissions through determined and methodical work, while the transport sector remains a major problem in this context. Of course, we need to do this in a way that enables good accessibility throughout the country and at the same time changes the transport sector to be more sustainable in every sense of the word. I look forward to continuing this work with all the parties in this House, because this is a work that requires the commitment of many. I hope that the Moderates, too, will be willing to use taxes as instruments in the future. It is not only taxpayers who, with different types of aid, should promote such development, but we also need to use the tax instrument as a means of pressure. I thank you for the debate and wish Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, the President and the Chamber Bureau a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-222	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked Minister Isabella Lövin three questions. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government believes that international aviation should contribute to keeping the global temperature increase well below two degrees and that efforts should be made to keep it at 1.5 degrees through actual emission reductions. The Government therefore welcomes ICAO's decision at the beginning of October this year to introduce a global CO2 emission instrument for international aviation. ICAO's decision is an important first step in reducing the climate impact of international aviation, but the level of ambition of the global governance means needs to be increased over time to be in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Sweden will continue to be a driving force within ICAO and the EU for effective and ambitious requirements and instruments aimed at reducing the climate and environmental impact of aviation. With regard to measures at national level, it is the Government's ambition to introduce a tax on air travel. It should be noted, however, that the Government has not yet made any proposal for such a tax. In the Government's upcoming aviation strategy, reducing the climate impact of aviation is an important part. The government is therefore pushing at both national and EU level and globally to reduce the climate impact of aviation as quickly as possible.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-229	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my interpellation. Emissions from the aviation sector are among our fastest growing emissions, both in Sweden and in the world. In Sweden, international flying has increased by over 100 percent over the last 20 years. During the same period, emissions from the aviation sector alone have increased by about 60%. The combined emissions from the aviation sector today are about the same as the emissions from our 4.5 million passenger cars, if we take into account the effects of aviation at higher altitudes, where the emissions of water vapour and nitrogen oxides make the effect even greater than just the emissions of carbon dioxide. It's very troubling. We talked about emissions from our cars, and more action is really needed there. But at least there it feels like there are some measures in place. For example, we have a carbon tax on fuel, other taxes and other instruments to reduce those emissions. However, aviation is in principle entirely tax-free in terms of fuel, and it is also VAT-free, unless it is domestic, which has reduced VAT. We in the Left Party welcome the proposal for an escape tax. We look forward to it being introduced here in Sweden. But much more needs to be done if we are to reduce emissions quickly. In my interpellation, I refer to the agreement at international level within the International Aviation Agency (ICAO). What is worrying about this agreement is that aviation emissions will continue to increase. What countries are supposed to do is actually just compensate for aviation emissions by buying up insecure credits in other countries. The ICAO agreement does not involve the inclusion of high altitude effects, i.e. discharges of water vapour, condensates and nitrogen oxides, which make aviation's emissions doubly high. I therefore welcome the Minister's reply that this agreement, as I understand it, must be tightened up and improved and that it is not in line with the Paris Agreement on keeping our emissions well below two degrees Celsius with a view to 1.5 degrees. My first question is simply: what will the government do to ensure that we get a better agreement at global level? Within the EU, aviation emissions are included in the emissions trading scheme. But it's a truth with modification. Aeroplanes flying in from outside the EU area are not covered by that emissions trading scheme. In addition, we know that the price of allowances is very low. It is very cheap to release within the EU. On top of that, the altitude effect of the EU ETS and aviation is again not included.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-237	Mr President, I would like to The emissions of aviation are a major concern. At the same time, it should be noted that the fact that air travel is increasing is an expression of an increasing number of people having the opportunity to travel and visit other countries, broaden their views and create new contacts. In this way, of course, aviation is a very positive element in society. It provides the opportunity for mobility that was not possible without aviation. It is important to find a way to reduce the negative climate and environmental impact of aviation. It is probably also the case that the number of trips may need to be kept down. Looking at the development of aviation in the coming years, it points to a rather dramatic increase in the number of journeys. It is not business travel or job travel that is primarily increasing; it is what is commonly called leisure travel. I'm sure there's a lot to do there to influence behavior. We from the government take a very positive view of the agreement in ICAO, especially because it is the first time in history that an international agreement is reached to limit the negative environmental and climate impact of aviation. Views can be made on the effectiveness of the agreement, views on its design and views on its low level of ambition. But somewhere you have to start. I believe that Jens Holm is also aware that, before the ICAO General Assembly in October, it was still highly uncertain whether there could be any agreement at all. Sweden has taken a great responsibility both within the EU and in the international negotiations to press and negotiate for an agreement to be reached. It is also extremely important as a signal to the aviation industry that the agreement is now in place and that the countries of the world, equivalent to around 84% of air traffic, have endorsed the agreement. That does not in any way mean that the work is finished with it. There is much to be done about regulations and such issues. But there are also a lot of low-hanging fruits, for example when it comes to technology development with lighter aircraft, more efficient engines and not least straighter routes. This is happening today as a result of the way airspace is organised a great deal too long flights, which is probably unnecessary. Sweden is also a pioneer country. Together with Denmark, we have a single airspace. This has an impact on emissions, as more efficient routes can be made, thereby reducing fuel consumption and environmental impact. There are also alternative fuels in this area as a development opportunity. It's still a very expensive option. The availability of alternative fuels in the aviation sector is very limited. Just as in other sectors of society there has often been a combination of effective instruments and technological developments that have moved us forward, I have good hopes that this will happen in the aviation sector as well. Tests have been carried out with solar-powered vehicles, although very small craft. If you are going to get that change, you need to have pressure on the whole sector to change behaviour and really tackle the challenges of reducing its climate impact.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-245	Mr President, I would like to I can share a lot in what Anna Johansson says. At the same time, it is something I miss, and it is crisis insight. Actually, that's what it's all about. This planet is warming up way too fast. We have seen horror reports all autumn about global warming in the Arctic, where the temperature for some days has been 20 degrees warmer than normal. We know that if we continue to fly as we do today, the aviation sector will perhaps be our largest source of emissions next to the heavy base industry. We will have passed the traffic if we continue as we do today. The Minister talks a lot about biofuels, technology, new flight routes and such things. Of course we'll do all that. But technology can only solve the problem on a marginal basis. Someone has to dare say we have to fly less. I heard the word behavioral changes from the Minister. But I have not seen any clear and clear strategy or objective from the government that is about us flying less and that we should transport ourselves in other ways. My first supplementary question to the Minister is this: does the Minister think that there is a need for an objective for aviation emissions and perhaps also for our flying as such? It is a question of setting an objective and saying: This is how much emissions will be reduced until this year. I was a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. There we agreed that transport emissions must be reduced by a total of 70% by 2030. However, international aviation is not covered by this objective. It was very regrettable that this was the case. Somehow, the plane flies all the time under the radar. The plane keeps getting away. It is VAT-free and tax-free, and there is no concrete objective nor any other instrument. With regard to the agreement within the international aviation organisation ICAO, a global agreement is obviously a good thing. But that is not enough. It is an agreement that allows aviation emissions to increase, and I do not think we can accept that. I did not really hear the Minister's strategy on how to sharpen that agreement and ensure that there is an agreement that brings down emissions from the aviation industry. Then there is much that we can do here at home, where we do not have to depend on other countries, complicated negotiations and so on. As I said earlier, I welcome the investigation into a flight tax, and I hope that we can introduce this tax as soon as possible. But there are other things that we can and should do here at home. The airlines could be subject to a quota obligation, i.e. they would have to mix in a certain proportion of biofuels in the fuel or generally consume a certain proportion. We could make sure that we pay full VAT on all flights. We could work towards a tax on aviation fuel as well; it is tax-free today. As I said earlier, we should have a target for how much aviation emissions will be reduced to a certain year, let us say 2030, and we should say that aviation emissions will be reduced by this and so much by then. What does Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson say about the proposals I have raised both at international level and in relation to what we can do here at home in Sweden?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-254	Mr President, I would like to As I began by saying, this is an important issue for the government. Sweden, through its authorities, has been active in pushing the agreement forward at international level. As I also said, one can have views on the level of ambition, the content and the design of the agreement, but it is the first time in world history that there is an agreement on the ground globally that approaches the issue of reducing the environmental and climate impact of aviation. Nevertheless, I think it is an important step and an important milestone in tackling these problems, which are global in nature. Air travel is, by its nature, an international phenomenon, which is why it is, of course, important to operate at international level in order to influence aviation emissions. Aviation tax is an important instrument that we hope we can have the opportunity to bring into Sweden. If nothing else, it's an important reminder that aviation is a climate villain, but I guess you'll have to put it that way – in relation to others. This is not the case overall, because aviation accounts for a smaller proportion, but in relation to how many flights are made compared to, for example, car travel, aviation accounts for a far too large proportion of climate emissions. Nor is it sufficiently researched to what extent high altitude emissions affect both climate and atmosphere, and where further research is needed. But measures are also needed to reduce the environmental impact. What can be seen is that domestic aviation has declined in recent years, while rail travel has increased quite dramatically over the same period. That is, of course, extremely positive, and this development should continue. In this context, it is important to emphasise plans to add new capacity to the rail system. It is important both to maintain what is available and to add new capacity. I am convinced that there will be a need for both additional instruments and other measures, such as further technological developments, to bring about improvements. The government will be active both at EU and international level to ensure that the countries that have signed the agreement also live up to it – this is the first step – and eventually sharpen the agreement and make it sharper and clearer. To begin with, however, we must welcome and welcome the fact that the agreement has finally been put in place, because it is an important event.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-260	Mr President, I would like to Allow me to draw a parallel to our land-based emissions here in Sweden. Between 1990 and 2015, our greenhouse gas emissions here in Sweden have decreased by 25 percent. It's not a bad development. This is the result of diligent work both by us politicians and by all citizens. During the same period, 1990– 2015, aviation emissions increased by 61 per cent. As all other emissions decrease, aviation emissions increase. It is a little bit this crisis insight – that we have to act now – that I miss with the government. The proposal for a flight tax is good, but much more needs to be done. To sharpen the ICAO agreement is a good thing, but I am not told how to do it. The Minister will be happy to tell you. Acting within the EU, where aviation emissions are within the emissions trading system, is a good thing. Much more must be done there. Then there are a lot of things that we can do here and now in Sweden. I mentioned this, but I did not get an answer. We can impose obligation on biofuels for aviation. It is great to invest in other means of transport, not least the railways. There are things going on here, but we need to invest even more. Full VAT on all flights should be a matter of course. We should also have taxes on aviation fuel. Last but not least, we have targets for other sectors in terms of how much their emissions should be reduced. There is no objective for how much aviation emissions can be reduced by, for example, 20 3 0. Is Anna Johansson prepared to introduce such a target for aviation emissions?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-264	Mr President, I would like to In any case, I am prepared to go further by looking at further steps to get to grips with this. Unfortunately, apart from having a negative climate and environmental impact, aviation is also a prerequisite for the whole of our country to live. It is a prerequisite for running businesses in all parts of our country and for having access to other parts of the world that in a globalised world are of course both desirable and valuable. The challenge here is to reduce the negative climate and environmental impact and to replace aviation where possible with other means of transport. Sometimes you can replace the flight with no trips. But we have, for example, a growing tourism market in Sweden, which is an important part of increasing the number of jobs, bringing down unemployment and creating good living opportunities throughout our country. There, aviation is an important factor whether you want to or not. As in all other respects, it is a question of balancing the three dimensions of the concept of sustainability in a way that allows us to reach as far as possible in all three dimensions. There's more to do on the plane. As far as the obligation is concerned, it is probably the case that the availability of alternative fuels in the aviation sector is still far too low. There is also a need to look at what measures can be taken to support positive developments while the market itself must take responsibility. I am definitely prepared to look further at many different measures at many different levels and taking into account the balance of objectives with each other, which is absolutely necessary in this context, just as in any other context. I would like to thank you for the debate and wish the honourable Member a Merry Christmas.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-269	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me if it is my assessment that Trafikverket and then the government will take the Bypass Söderköping into transport plan 2018 – 2029 with high priority, so that it will now be possible to hold the timetable at consultation meetings.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-270	In May this year, the Swedish Transport Administration proposed to the government that the object should instead be prepared for construction within four to six years. The reason for this is that the Swedish Transport Administration has made a different position on the choice of technical solution: The agency is now planning for an aqueduct instead of an opening bridge. This probably also means cost increases for the object. In a letter reply dated 8 December from the Finnish Transport Administration to the regions and municipalities concerned, which the Ministry of Economic Affairs has received for information, the Swedish Transport Administration notes that the aqueduct solution represents a significant improvement for all modes of transport and that the increased investment cost is socio-economically justified. On 11 October 2016, the Government presented the proposal Infrastructure for the future – Innovative solutions for strengthening competitiveness and sustainable development, with proposals for financial frameworks and orientations for the period 2018–2029, to the Riksdag. Following Parliament's decision on the bill, work on action plans is now continuing, which will lead to a new national traffic cross-border plan for the development of the transport system 2018 – 2029. The action plan identifies the items to be prioritised. The Government intends to instruct the Finnish Transport Administration to submit proposals for the next national plan. The Government then intends to establish the plan in spring 2018. The current national cross-border plan for the development of the transport system covers the period 2014-2025. It applies, of course, until something else has been decided. I cannot anticipate future decisions but at the same time note that most objects usually remain when a new plan is decided.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-272	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer, which I will try to interpret as positively as possible. I know, of course, that the government is not allowed to exercise ministerial rule, and that is why Anna Johansson here today cannot tell us exactly when the construction start will be for the much-expected bypass of European road 22 outside Söderköping. However, the Government will set the next transport plan for 2018 to 2029 in spring 2018, and the words of the Minister for Infrastructure obviously weigh heavily. Despite the persistent construction of roads for many centuries in Sweden, much still remains to be built. For eastern Östergötland, Söderköping and eastern Sweden from Kalmar to Norrköping, European Road 22 is a very important transport route. The road has always gone through Söderköping, one of Sweden's oldest cities. The construction of Göta Canal in the 1800s was good but gave and gives huge queues at the bridge openings. Add to this the many traffic lights, which have effectively slowed traffic for many decades. This is becoming increasingly frustrating both for utility and private traffic and for Söderköping Municipality. It hampers the development of the region and the municipality. Already 20 years ago, planning began to lead the E22 past Söderköping. There were long discussions about where and how the road should be drawn. Aqueduct, tunnel, bridges, boat lift and now again aqueduct have been solutions. The Center Party has long ruled in Söderköping, and I know what time and effort it has put into decades to drive the new road, usually in broad collaboration with others. According to the current transport plan, as the Minister said, Bypass Söderköping will start construction next year and be completed by 2020. But that's not gonna happen. The bold plans with a boat lift at Göta Canal have been abandoned and instead an aqueduct under the canal will be the solution. It was not considered possible 15 years ago, but now it is possible. The Government reported on the current situation well; according to the Swedish Transport Administration's recent announcement of 8 December, the aqueduct solution, despite being more expensive, represents a significant improvement and is economically profitable. And Trafikverket believes that the start of construction could be between 2020 and 2022. I welcome the Swedish Transport Administration's clear and clear response to both the issue of substance and construction. It becomes an aqueduct, it is economically profitable and construction can start within four years. The road is then ready about 2023. In its reply, the Government referred to the fact that as long as it has not been decided otherwise, the current decisions are in force, namely the start of construction in 2017. It's correct, but it's overplayed. We know that. Then Anna Johansson said :中 I cannot anticipate future decisions, but at the same time note that most objects usually remain when a new plan is decided. ..................................................... Well, hello, Minister! You don't have to be so afraid of ministerial rule anyway. The Swedish Transport Administration is crystal clear; it wants to start construction within four to six years, which will certainly appear in the work's upcoming proposal for a new transport plan. I hope that the Minister can back up the Swedish Transport Administration and say that there is much in the work's recent conclusions and assessment of when road E22 can be realised past Söderköping! Thank you for your answer. It went in the right direction, but I hope for clarification during the debate.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-284	Mr President, I would like to My starting point is that the objects in national planes remain there, unless the conditions have changed in some way. This means that other conclusions can be reached in the next national plan. Of course, that right may be reserved for any government. At the same time, it is important to see that these are long-term decisions. They call for as broad a consensus as possible and for the decisions taken to last over time. Anything else would be economically inefficient, and there would be a risk that large amounts of money would be spent on design and preparatory work that would then not lead to any construction. All parties want to avoid this as far as possible. At the same time, it is not possible to ignore the fact that it is problematic when objects become substantially much more expensive than there are funds set aside for in the current plan. Right now there are several such objects that are under review or that have been shown to be significantly more expensive than was originally planned. If all the objects were unengraved, with their ups and downs, they would displace other objects that are a little further ahead in the planning. There is, of course, a contradiction here that in some way needs to be addressed in the further work. The Government's ambition is that the various identified objects that have great socio-economic benefits for industry's accessibility, for commuting opportunities, for reduced climate impact and for increased mobility should continue to be included in the planning. However, let me put it to you that large costs are, of course, an aggravating circumstance in this context.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-289	Mr President, I would like to My interpretation of what Anna Johansson has just said is that profitable projects should continue while some things can be ironed on the foot. I take it it's not about Söderköping. I can raise a local issue, which the Government cannot resolve, but which is quite important. Regional access routes of great importance to Söderköping's development were previously included in the project but have deteriorated in the latest proposals. A larger road is proposed to be isolated, which is very strange. I am not asking the Government for an answer here, but I hope that the matter can be resolved through ongoing dialogue between the Finnish Transport Agency and the municipality. Today, however, there is uncertainty. I got a good interpellation response because it presented the facts. There is great concern in the region. You've waited so long, but there are plans. The question now lies with the government. The Finnish Transport Agency presented a proposal to the government in May this year and said it was a bit more expensive, but it is a better and more socially profitable solution. As the Minister said, an assignment will be given to the Swedish Transport Administration to make a new traffic plan. The plan comes back to the government, and then it will be a decision of about a year and a half. In this debate, I would like to highlight the situation in Söderköping. We certainly agree that, for climate, regional and development reasons, construction is needed, and there is a concrete plan. The cost must not lead to a further delay in the matter. The Finnish Transport Administration is clear in its reasoning. Work should be profitable. I very much hope that the government will land in that the object will be included in the timetable proposed by the Finnish Transport Administration for the government. If the Minister can still express something more positive about Söderköping, the region and the municipality would receive it as a small Christmas present!
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-296	Mr President, I would like to I'd love to! I get a lot of questions about how the government approaches individual objects. For the sake of clarity, it is important to have the same principled approach, i.e. that we will not give any information about individual objects until the national cross-road plan 2018. On the other hand, my basic position is that the objects that already exist in national planes, identified objects, are already under investigation and should remain in place. If the previous arrangements have changed in different ways, there may be reason to make other priorities in the next national plan, but for our infrastructure planning instrument to work, it is essentially so that these plans need to be decently intact over time. Therefore, a broader agreement on the infrastructure bill would also have been welcome, but we do not need to talk about that here. One can well also note that there are great needs in the transport system around Sweden. At the same time, unfortunately, resources are not infinite, but, on the contrary, extremely finite. Now the government is raising the level of ambition significantly and extending the framework for this area by 100 billion for the next planning period. It is welcome; it is needed. We need to strengthen transport opportunities in Sweden, both in order to increase the competitiveness of the business community and to facilitate the absolutely necessary transformation of the transport system to become more sustainable. It should also be said that this particular project has the peculiarity that the change now proposed by Trafikverket means an increase that makes it difficult to handle in relation to the fact that the plan holds more and other objects in other parts of the country as the representatives of those regions obviously are passionate about as strongly as Staffan Danielsson is passionate about Söderköping. That's a problem. At the same time, this particular solution is not only socially profitable. The Finnish Transport Agency points out that it is also economically profitable, i.e. that the life cycle cost of the project is lower with the proposed solution than it had been with the previously proposed solution because it will have lower operating costs and lower maintenance costs. Openable bridges are costly to operate and also involve a greater risk in various respects. This should, of course, be taken into account in the further work. The essence of the poodle, however, is that this would cost more money and consume a greater proportion of the resources allocated to national plans than the national plan provides for. That is what the government will eventually have to take a position on. But I thank you for the question and hope that we will be able to find good solutions to the problem in Söderköping as well.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-302	Mr President, I would like to But in relation to the 100 billion – and the Minister knows that the Center Party always stands up for more resources for infrastructure across the country – the cost of Söderköping is a few tenths of a percent, so I interpret the Minister's response positively. To sum up: Trafikverket believes that Bypass Söderköping is keen to build, that culverts are the best solution, that it is socially profitable and that construction is likely to start by 2020. I welcome this and I would like to stress that it is very important that this is included in the forthcoming transport plan. Delays would be extremely unfortunate, and that is what I wanted to draw the attention of the Government and the Minister for Infrastructure to with this interpellation. It is not every day we discuss Söderköping in the Swedish Parliament. Now it is done, and I think it is very well justified. Eastern Sweden from Kalmar to Norrköping and Söderköping urgently need to remove road E22 from stops and long queues through the city to a quick pass outside. Once again, I hope and believe that this debate has helped to put pressure on this issue. I'm happy with what the Swedish Transport Administration says. I hope that despite its somewhat more cautious statements, the Government will think of the E22 and Söderköping and eastern Sweden when the transport plan is to be established so that it can be as the Swedish Transport Agency wants. Thank you for a good discussion and Merry Christmas!
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-307	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stellan Adolfsson, for the debate. Staffan Danielsson! I apologize for the error. It is the case with these kinds of questions that, when there is an increase in costs and delays, there is also a great deal of concern. At the same time, it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration handles the funds allocated by taxpayers' money in a responsible manner and ensures that the greatest possible social benefits are achieved for each tax chandelier. Therefore, it is not possible to say: It doesn't matter so much that there are costs – drive anyway! You might say that once or twice, but if you raise it to a principle, it will have completely unreasonable consequences. 100 billion is certainly a lot of money, but they will also cover huge needs in the infrastructure around our country. Not least railway maintenance is something that the government invests a lot in – for most, I think, very obvious reasons. We need to have viable transport opportunities on the railways, but we also need to ensure road safety on our roads and to modernise the road side so that we can also reduce climate emissions and make transport more efficient. Thank you again for the debate and wish Staffan Danielsson a Merry Christmas!
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-311	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked the Minister for the Environment whether it is the Minister's assessment that Sweden's ecological footprint is sustainable, whether the Minister intends to develop a target for how much consumption-related emissions should be reduced and whether the Minister intends to take measures to reduce the environmental and climate impact of meat consumption, for example through an objective of reduced meat consumption. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Average consumption in Sweden is not environmentally sustainable. The Government therefore has a strong focus on climate and environmental issues and invests in ambitious emission reductions both at home and beyond Sweden's borders. In the Budget Bill, we present a strategy for sustainable consumption with a series of measures to streamline resource use and stimulate more sustainable ways of consuming. The Government intends, among other things, to commission the Swedish Consumer Agency to establish a forum for environmentally smart consumption that aims to deepen cooperation between public actors, the scientific community, the business community and civil society organisations. When it comes to the growing share of emissions from consumption via imports, international cooperation is also required, and the government is actively working here. The Paris Agreement expresses high ambitions, and a large number of countries have signed it. The Government intends to submit a proposal at the beginning of 2017 based on the Environmental Objectives Committee's report. The environmental target committee estimates that today we do not have a robust basis for setting and measuring an intermediate target for the climate impact of consumption. In the recently presented research policy proposal, we increase further research efforts and highlight the climate challenge as one of the strategically important research areas. The consumption of meat in Sweden and the world has increased for a long time, leading to a greater impact on the environment and climate. As consumers, we can contribute to reduced environmental impact by making environmentally smart food choices. How diet is put together is one important factor; another is food waste. Within the framework of the strategy for sustainable consumption, the Government intends, among other things, to commission the Swedish Consumer Agency to stimulate environmentally smart consumption patterns. Public procurement is also important in the direction of sustainable food, as reflected in the national procurement strategy and in the mandate to the Procurement Authority. It can also be noted that the conditions for producing sustainable food are good in Sweden and that we have comparatively high environmental and animal welfare ambitions.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-317	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. I think this is an important issue. When we in Sweden report to the UN and the international community on our greenhouse gas emissions, we report the results of the emissions that occur on Swedish territory. The emissions that occur if we take an aircraft to Thailand or buy a new mobile phone that is made in China or meat and other foods that are produced in other countries, those emissions occur in those countries. They do not happen in Sweden. The latter are commonly referred to as consumption-based emissions, and they are emissions that are rapidly growing. Today we have no targets and very few instruments to reduce them. The World Wildlife Fund presented a new report a few weeks ago, Living Planet Report 2016, which states that every Swedish needs seven hectares of arable land to support itself for a year. It is about six times as much land as a person in Tanzania needs. It is also noted that if everyone were to live as we do in Sweden, it would take more than four globes for everyone to maintain the same lifestyle as here. We understand that this is not sustainable at all and that something needs to be done. We also have, within the framework of the environmental objective system, an overall target called the generational target. It is about all major environmental and climate issues being resolved when we hand over the planet to the next generation, and we should not shift responsibility to other countries so that emissions increase there. In this debate, I would like to know whether the government is prepared to set a separate objective, a milestone, to deal specifically with emissions from our consumption. As the Minister mentioned, this discussion took place within the framework of the report I am now presenting from the Environment Objectives Committee. There we discussed the possibility of having an intermediate target for consumption-based emissions. I would not really formulate myself as Per Bolund, because what the Environmental Objectives Committee nevertheless said was that it is free for every government to formulate interim targets, for example for reducing emissions from our consumption. I am a little disappointed with the government because this has not been done. Instead, the government has presented a strategy for sustainable consumption. I welcome it – I think it's great. But what I miss in the strategy is precisely measurable, concrete objectives. What does the government really want with the consumption strategy? Per Bolund will be happy to tell you. How much do you expect emissions to be reduced? What kind of emissions should be reduced? How can we measure it? And what do we do if nothing happens thanks to the strategy? I also ask about meat consumption, because I know that it has increased by 40% in Sweden. This is, as Per Bolund also mentioned, untenable. There are very rapidly increasing emissions. Today, animal consumption in Sweden accounts for about the same emissions as all our 4.5 million cars. Here I think it would have been nice if the government had been able to adopt a target for reduced meat consumption and reduced emissions and for more sustainable consumption of food. Why doesn't the government do that, Per Bolund?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-324	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank Jens Holm for a very important interpellation. I myself am deeply involved in consumption issues, and not least in the impact of consumption on both environmental and social sustainability. This is also the reason why the government has taken the rather unique step to start work focusing on consumption and how it affects Sweden and our surrounding world. As the first government in the world, we have also developed a strategy for sustainable consumption. It includes measures that reduced the cost of repairing our gadgets, whether it is going with the bike to the bicycle dealer, fixing the shoes of the shoemaker or fixing the appliances that we have in our homes. We are therefore, of course, working to reduce emissions from consumption. We have also seen a positive trend. This has been a worrying development since the 1990s: according to the statistics we have access to, emissions from Swedish consumption have increased for a long time. In fact, in recent years we have started to see a turnaround, and emissions have started to decrease. This is a development that we very much want to push further and get even more momentum. I believe that this is largely due to the fact that consumers in Sweden have also started to act. They want to be part of the solution, and now they are acting to reduce the environmental impact of their consumption. We see that people are buying increasingly organic food. Sales have increased by 40 per cent per year in recent years – a doubling every two years. Sweden is also taking over the place as a leading country in terms of the proportion of organic production and consumption. We see the same development in Fairtrade-labelled products: Consumers have increased their purchases of them very much. Of course, we want this positive development with reduced emissions to continue, and that is why we have developed the strategy for sustainable consumption. The way I see it, it's an incredibly important step. We are the first government to do so, in Sweden and, as I know, also in the world. It is a way of creating advice so that we simply develop instruments that enable us to influence the environmental impact and emissions of consumption. We also gain more knowledge about measures and their link to the actual environmental impact of consumption. I believe that these steps must be taken before we can set a precise target for how much emissions are to be reduced and where we are going to end up. If we do not have the knowledge about how we can take control of emissions and how we can measure them and get good statistics, it is difficult to set a relevant goal that there is a broad consensus and backing around. Within the strategy, we focus on those areas where consumption has a high environmental impact. We know that it is primarily transport, food and housing, which together account for about 80% of our individual consumption environmental and climate impact. Of course, we need to work with all those areas in order to reduce the environmental impact. When it comes to transport, we have worked both to introduce more sustainable modes of transport and to use economic instruments. Most recently, we have proposed a flight tax for aviation to also pay for its climate impact. As far as food is concerned, the government is working on a food strategy, which we hope to be able to put on Parliament's table shortly. We have also, in dialogue with the industry, made it possible to produce an origin label for meat also in a restaurant, so that better information can be obtained as a consumer. And when it comes to housing, we support both efficient housing for new buildings and renovation of homes to make them more energy efficient. In all these areas, then, we are working on strategic measures, and I think it is perhaps more important to make things happen than to set targets that are sometimes far into the future and are rather diffuse. It is better to have a workshop now than to have goals far into the future.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-335	Mr President, I would like to I welcome much of what the government is doing. After all, it is in the budget, and it has been negotiated with us in the Left Party. But there is a grant in what Per Bolund says that I do not really think is enough. I think it is very much about us as individuals and consumers making conscious choices. We'll get a lot of information, it'll be labeled and stuff like that. It's great to make conscious choices, but this is such an important issue that we have to take greater responsibility and not just roll it over to the individuals. I am thinking a little about how we have acted earlier in Sweden on sustainability, efficiency and energy issues. Let's go back to 1973. Then there was an oil crisis in the world. Oil prices skyrocketed, and everyone became aware – perhaps more from a self-sufficiency perspective – that we cannot rely on oil from dictatorial states in the Middle East, if I may generalise a little. Here in Sweden we did a lot of things to quickly phase out the oil. We expanded district heating, we increased energy tax, we introduced building standards for premises and homes, and so on – all with the perspective that we would be away from oil dependence. And it was very effective. Between 1970 and 1990, emissions in Sweden decreased from 100 million tonnes to 70 million tonnes; 30% of emissions disappeared. It is actually a faster reduction than the one we have seen in the last 20 years, which we also tend to think is quite good. Nevertheless, this was before the time of climate policy. Then why did it go so fast? Well, I think it was because the government acted very clearly. You had a very clear picture of where you wanted to go. I think Per Bolund is still out running a part of the jogging trail. I usually do, too, and something we runners know is that you have to know where you're going. You have to have a clear picture of it; otherwise you run astray. I think it is the same with climate policy. If you do not set a target for how much you want emissions to be reduced, and when, frankly, it becomes a little ad hoc. It's gonna be a little bit like that. You throw out some action and hope there will be something of it. That is why I would like to put the question once again to Mr Per Bolund. The entire environmental movement, the Climate Target Initiative and numerous experts and experts within the framework of the Environmental Objectives Committee's work have said: We need an interim target for reducing emissions from our consumption. Why can Sweden not be prepared to introduce it, Per Bolund? That would be a very elegant addition to the consumption strategy that the government has now developed and which I welcome, as I said. Then I have a question about meat consumption. Meat consumption has increased by more than 40 per cent since 1990. Today, animal consumption accounts for as much emissions as our cars. As far as cars are concerned, we have the objective of a fossil-free vehicle fleet, and we have a number of measures in place to reduce emissions. Both Bolund and I know that more needs to be done, but we are at least on our way. But the meat consumption feels, to be honest, like something of a sacred cow. There's nothing you can do there. When Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog commented on the World Wildlife Fund's proposal to halve emissions from Swedish meat consumption, it was nothing that the government wanted to know. We in the Left want an action plan to reduce meat consumption, both for the sake of animals and to reduce emissions. Can't the government introduce this, Per Bolund?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-346	Mr President, I would like to We are not satisfied with just a fossil-free vehicle fleet and a fossil-free transport system, but we want a fossil-free welfare society. Sweden will become one of the first countries to actually become fossil-free. This obviously also includes the agricultural sector; it applies to all sectors that exist in our country. We have high ambitions – the highest ambitions in the world, I would say. We are also pursuing a policy that achieves those ambitions. With regard, for example, to the phasing out of oil, much of what has happened since the 1970s has been about us implementing green policies, such as the green tax exchange that the Green Party was involved in pushing through in budgetary cooperation with a previous government. There we made sure that the cost of burning oil in heating plants and households was so high that they actually started to switch to sustainable heating methods, such as pellet heat or geothermal pumps. It had a very large effect so far that we now have a minimum of oil use in the heating sector. We have been ensuring that economic policy pushes change through for a long time. We shall continue to do so even in government. We are continuing with the green tax shift, as we are now also raising the tax on flights, as we are working on the proposal. At the same time, we have the opportunity to reduce other taxes, for example on employment and employment. The parable of jogging may not be entirely optimal. At least I myself usually run my jogging turns in a round. I have also run marathon here in Stockholm, and even if it is two laps you still come back to the same place. I do not want to do that with environmental policy, but I want us to move forward all the time and come to a new and sustainable society. Therefore, we are constantly working intensively to develop measures in all areas where we know we have a major environmental impact. Consumption is incredibly important for us to reach the generational target, and that is why we have also launched the strategy for sustainable consumption. I think that is really showing leadership – to get into areas where it can sometimes be felt as if you are coming with touchsticks. But we feel that there is such a strong will and commitment on the part of consumers that we in the government want to support this development. As regards meat consumption, there is also a recommendation from the Swedish Food Agency that you should not eat more than 500 grams of meat per person per week. It's health-related. But there we have an indication of where we should end up in order to also maintain good public health in our country. There are also international studies showing that excessive consumption of particularly red meat has negative health effects. Among other things, according to studies, it can cause cancer cases in the population. We work to ensure that we eat both sustainable and healthy. In the food strategy, which we are now working on, it is a lot about the focus on how we can achieve sustainable food supply in Sweden. There we also want to work together internationally. I am pleased that we have international cooperation and an agreement at international level where all countries have to deliver. Sweden is at the forefront, both when it comes to implementing what we agreed in Paris, to achieve a sustainable climate, and Agenda 2030 with the global sustainability goals. Coherent studies indicate that Sweden is actually the leader in achieving those goals. We are the nation that has the best work and has come the longest. In addition, we are now coming up with a strategy for sustainable consumption to further fuel it. We come with economic instruments and many other measures to achieve sustainable consumption. I think it is a much more effective way of using resources to focus on tools and measures rather than putting a lot of resources on targets, especially when we do not really have the statistics and the data needed to define what is a good target for consumption-related emissions.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-355	Mr President, I would like to I think this has been an important debate. We will continue to discuss these issues. Consumption-related emissions amount to 100 million tonnes each year. In fact, it is twice as much as what we officially report to the UN. A strategy for sustainable consumption, which the government has now put forward, is a good one. But to draw the parallel to Stockholm Marathon once again: If you have a strategy with a number of legitimate measures but do not know where you want to go, I am afraid that you run lost. Per Bolund can well see himself as the one who is laying the course for Stockholm Marathon, because that is what we politicians are. We are the ones who set targets and milestones. We're making the track. And then everyone out there is gonna do the job. Everybody's running the race. Then I think people think it's good that there's someone who has thought about, so there's a ready course to run in. I would remind Per Bolund that every government is free to adopt new milestones. As the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has stated, a separate target, a milestone, for reducing emissions from our consumption, would be good. I hope the government will soon come to that realization. Per Bolund mentioned the fossil-free welfare state. It is a beautiful goal that we tie together justice and sustainability. That's exactly how you're supposed to work. I have only one question about it: When, Per Bolund, are we going to get the fossil-free welfare state? It's a great vision, but if you don't say when you want to get there, there's a great risk that there won't be much of it. As far as meat consumption is concerned, we need to do more to reduce emissions. A concrete action plan would be appropriate here.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-360	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Jens Holm for a good and important debate. We need to keep focusing on these issues. I can guarantee that in my work as Minister of Consumer Affairs I am constantly focusing on improving the conditions for us consumers, and also on ensuring that we can just implement the vision I have, that is, that our consumption in the future should be sustainable, just as our society should be. We have objectives that are timed. In particular, there are proposals from the Environmental Objectives Committee that we should have zero net greenhouse gas emissions by 2045. Then we shall begin to have a minus in the Minutes as far as our emissions are concerned. It is a goal one can have as a focus in the future. But it does not take away the fact that we also need to focus on action here and now to constantly push for reductions in emissions. This is, above all, what I am focusing on in my work. We have increased the budget for environmental investment by 72% so far. We have introduced climate change for climate investments around the country, such as sustainable transport and other investments. We have urban environment agreements that invest in sustainable public transport and also bicycle traffic. We have measures for aviation, not least for it to pay for its climate impact. We have efforts to reduce sustainability problems in the housing sector. In the area by area, we are bringing new measures. We will continue to do so because these are so important issues. We have the ambition to hand over a sustainable planet to our children and also a fossil-free welfare society. I am pleased with the commitment shown by Jens Holm. I also share that, and I hope that we can continue to work together in the future to achieve the goal of a sustainable and fossil-free society. I also hope that we will continue to discuss these issues, and I welcome the fact that initiatives and ideas are also coming from the Left Party on these issues. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish you a good and very sustainable Christmas.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-366	Mr President, I would like to Jan Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that services throughout the country are provided quickly through the State Service Offices. I share Jan Andersson's view that basic services should be provided throughout the country. Here I would like to highlight digitalisation and the opportunities it offers us. Digital service channels ensure equal service no matter where you live in the country. Statskontoret's report on the location of government agencies also shows that many citizens prefer to take part in the government services digitally rather than to visit the agency personally. The Government wants to promote this development and has for example decided on the initiative Digital first, which is a programme for digital renewal of public Sweden. The programme will contribute, among other things, to well-developed quality, service and accessibility in central government. However, the local presence of the authorities is important for a Sweden that holds together. We know that it is important for many citizens that authorities are close to where they live. Anyone who cannot or does not want to access government services over the internet should still receive good service throughout the country. The service offices play an important role here. Developing the digital service also frees up resources to offer and develop local services when needed. The Government will work to ensure that you have access to basic digital and physical services no matter where you live. The Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development is concerned with the issue of state service agencies in the country. The Committee shall report on its mandate by 31 January 2017 at the latest. In addition, the State Service Centre has an ongoing government commission on government functions that can be carried out in a coordinated manner in the state and outside the metropolitan areas. Local service offices and the forms of their operations are examples of government functions that are prioritised in the work of the State Service Centre, to be reported by 15 April 2017. These reports will form an important basis for the Government's future work on the issues of regional presence and citizen service.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-369	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue raised by Member of Parliament Andersson. It is a pity that he is not here to take part in the debate. Nevertheless, I would like to thank Minister Shekarabi for his answer. Together with other Social Democrats, I have discussed this with the Government and stated that it is of the utmost importance to have a good state presence throughout the country and throughout Kalmar County and that sufficient resources are given to make it work. And it is important that the operations at the government service offices at home in Kalmar County work. It is good that the Minister prioritises this. Mr President, I would like to Anyone who knows about our county – I know that the Minister has been there several times – knows that besides being one of the country's most beautiful also has long distances. Therefore, I very much welcome Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's mission to Shekarabi: to ensure that every individual citizen should have good access to basic government services no matter where in Sweden they live and no matter where they live in Kalmar County. As I said, it is a pity that Mr Andersson, who has initiated the debate, is not here, because I would like to take this opportunity to ask one thing that I have not been able to stop thinking about: Where has Andersson's involvement in this matter been before? In 2012, two government service offices were closed in Kalmar County – one in Vimmerby and one in Borgholm. It was during the time of the moderate-led government, when Reinfeldt was Prime Minister and when Anna Kinberg Batra led the Moderates in the Riksdag. It was not a temporary stop, as it is now, but closures. The Moderate Member of Parliament, Mr Andersson, did not ask a question at that time, but allowed the closures to continue. It was at the same time as the Moderates, Reinfeldt... ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind the honourable Member of the following: if a Member has notified the House of an obstacle, it is not really a good thing to ask for the floor and attack that Member in his absence. The honourable Member is happy to continue his speech, but I think that we should refrain from attacking Members who are not present in this House. ) I wonder why it is now being highlighted when it has not been mentioned before that it has been a problem. It is something that actually falls on the way the situation is now. I therefore wonder how the Minister views this.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-375	Mr President, I would like to As the Prime Minister's Christmas speech showed during the weekend, this will be an important issue for the government. The state will help keep our society together. Then we also need to work to strengthen the state presence. It's about several different parts. One is to move authorities from Stockholm to other parts of the country. We are pleased that we have already been able to make a decision to move the E-Health Agency from Stockholm to Kalmar County. Kalmar County has a low proportion of government jobs. This was also why the county was prioritised, in addition to the fact that there are good conditions for the E-Health Agency's activities in Kalmar, not least with regard to the training courses conducted at Linnaeus University and the private companies operating in that industry in that region. But it is also important to strengthen the state presence from a service perspective. We need to complement the digitisation of the public sector with a stronger state presence aimed at providing a good service to citizens who cannot access digital services. Here, as I pointed out in the interpellation response, we have several processes in motion. It is about the work of the Rural Committee but also about the report that the State Service Centre is currently working on, which deals with how we can build on the experience we have from the service offices. This is a very important issue for the legitimacy of the Swedish state, and the government has noted that there is a criticism of the state's poor presence in parts of the country. That is why it is a good thing that the question is raised. Whether it is a moderate Member or a Social Democratic Member, it is important that the issues are discussed in the Riksdag and that we together help to strengthen the legitimacy and anchoring of the Swedish state with the Swedish people. I would like to thank Mrs Naraghi for her commitment.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-379	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a good thing that the Minister lifts the move of the E-Health Agency to Kalmar. This is something we welcome very much at home in Kalmar County. I hope the government holds on to this. Despite the criticism from the bourgeois side, we need this at home in Kalmar County. I hope that we will have more discussions on this and that we will ensure that we can jointly strengthen the good state presence throughout the country. I'd like to take this opportunity to wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-382	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the discussion, and I would like to conclude by wishing Mrs Naraghi, the President and the other Members of this House happy Christmas and pleasant holidays.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-383	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying a few words about yesterday's tragic events. 2016 has been marked by so much insanity. In Syria there is an indescribable terror against the local population. We have seen a senseless murder, terror and conflict around the world. Yesterday another dark day was added to the row. In Zürich, a man opened fire in a Muslim prayer hall and injured three people. In Ankara, Russia's ambassador to Turkey, Andrej Karlov, was Karlov. And about eight o'clock a truck drove into a Christmas market at Kurfürstendamm in Berlin and killed at least twelve people and injured many more. Sweden participates in the grief of those affected. We are taking part in the anger over what has happened. Above all, we shall be involved in the work against terrorism. Terrorism must be combated. Witnessing violence can have a strong impact on man. It can promote hatred, polarisation and a desire for new violence that breeds violence that breeds violence. That is why the fight against terrorism requires both military and police action, because this is the will of terrorism. But it also requires tireless work for the cohesion and democratic values of a society, for these will never be taken for granted. Only in recent years has our own country suffered violent extremism. We have had a suicide attack here in Stockholm. We had a school attack in Trollhättan. We've had hundreds of people traveling to terror organizations in war cores. Every day in Sweden people try to attract young people and vulnerable people to the simple dogmas of extremism, to a demeaning of human dignity and thus also to hatred and violence. We must resist this. We, who work in the service of democracy, bear absolute primary responsibility here. This hall brings together people who promote different ideologies, different electoral bases and different parts of the country, but our biggest task is one and the same, namely to promote democracy, curb hatred, be representatives of cohesion, understanding and freedom – in short: what makes our Sweden Sweden Sweden. I therefore wish all Members and this House, as well as all the workers in the service of democracy throughout the country, a Merry Christmas and a few rest days for the coming year. Next year, even harder work is waiting for an even stronger community – the community that terrorism can never or should be able to defeat. Mr President, I would like to I would now like to turn to the reporting back from the European Council on 15 December. On Thursday, the European Council met for the last meeting of the year. The agenda included migration, security, the economy with an emphasis on youth unemployment and external relations. However, the discussions were overshadowed by developments in Syria. The meeting began with the mayor of East Aleppo, Brita Hagi Hassan, speaking about the terrible situation in Aleppo. He also appealed for EU support in pressure to stop the carnage and evacuate civilians. In the discussion on Syria, many returned to the mayor's speech, and we agreed to call on the Syrian regime and the countries supporting it to immediately implement four emergency measures: We agreed that those responsible for these crimes, some of which may be war crimes, must be held accountable. It is an important signal and a clear call from the European Union. I, along with others, pushed for this, and I also called for the European Council to examine the possibility of imposing sanctions on those responsible, including Russian citizens. A couple of Member States supported this proposal, but, unfortunately, just as at the previous meeting when this was discussed, it was not possible to mobilise sufficient support. Now a heavy responsibility rests with the UN Security Council to break the deadlock and put an end to the war in Syria. For Sweden, which, after the end of the year, enters the Security Council, this will of course come first. As at other summits during the year, migration issues were also addressed. After long discussions on the timetable for work on the new asylum system, Sweden and Germany finally got through a decision that the objective now is that the new asylum system must be adopted within six months, i.e. within the forthcoming Presidency, which is Malta's. As you know, the government is working hard to achieve a common asylum system in Europe with a fair distribution. In this work, an end date was an important step. I would also like to make it clear that the further negotiations will, however, be very tough. It's obvious we're a long way from each other. It will be difficult to find a solution that everyone can accept, but it is obviously on the basis of such an objective that we must continue. We also discussed progress on the EU's so-called partnership framework with third countries and the possibility of continuing work with additional countries on a more effective return policy. The conclusions also confirm the commitments between the EU and Turkey in accordance with the declaration adopted in March this year. The situation in Turkey remains very worrying, but it is nevertheless important that both parties maintain cooperation. Mr President, I would like to People should be able to feel safe and secure. That goes without saying. It is therefore a good thing that we in the EU are working together to strengthen both internal and external security. These include increased cooperation within the Union to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. Our environment remains uncertain, and the political landscape is constantly changing. So we need to look at how best to strengthen our cooperation, although it is also important to respect intergovernmentalism in this area. The work on the Global Strategy for the EU's foreign and security policy is to be effective, and the conclusions set out several of the steps to be taken. The strategy is a good ambition that the government supports, not least as regards the need to develop the EU's capabilities in civilian and military crisis management. We will come back to these issues at the Spring European Councils. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg participated and informed about EU-NATO cooperation, which is something the government supports. Both parties stressed that this cooperation is both good and important. Mr President, I would like to The conclusion also highlights economic issues and, above all, youth. There was little discussion about this at this meeting, but we agreed to continue to focus on combating unemployment, especially among our young people. In addition to Syria, the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement was discussed under the agenda item on external relations. Prime Mark Rutte informed about the precarious situation in the Netherlands following their referendum on the agreement. We adopted conclusions and a related decision clarifying what the agreement with Ukraine means, so that the Netherlands too can ratify this agreement, so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. President Anastasiades briefed on the state of play of the Cyprus negotiations. The Heads of State or Government here expressed their support for the ongoing reunification process and announced the EU's readiness to participate in the further talks. Following the formal meeting, Heads of State or Government without Prime Minister Theresa May discussed procedural issues ahead of the forthcoming negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the Union. That discussion was very brief. A statement was adopted by the EU-27 stating that the Council will ask the Commission to act as Chief Negotiator once the UK has notified its withdrawal. In this process, of course, the European Council will have overall responsibility. The General Council will have a preparatory role and, of course, Parliament will also be involved in the process in various ways and will attend certain meetings. Mr President, I would like to Despite the fact that we have a complicated process ahead of us regarding Britain's withdrawal negotiations, I look forward to the new year and the steps we are going to take together within the European Union. Among other things, we have to work on the issues of the future of Europe. It is a process that we started in Bratislava in September and which will continue at an informal summit in Valletta at the beginning of February and then be followed up at the celebration of the Treaty of Rome in March next year. Mr President, I would like to This was the report back from the European Council.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-407	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I deeply regret the tragic deeds that took place in Europe yesterday. Of course we think of the victims and the relatives. I turn to today's topic. I will focus on migration issues. For a year, the Moderates have pointed out that somehow we need to link financial incentives to a functioning common asylum policy in the European Union. We do not think it is possible to achieve a system that works in solidarity without this. For a year we have received the answer from the Prime Minister and the Government that this is not possible. For a few months now, some government representatives have changed direction, including the Prime Minister. The government's line now is to push this forward for the next long-term budget, that is, the EU budget for 2020 – 2026. That is very positive. The Prime Minister has previously said that the government is looking at various options to put pressure on the Member States. My question is: did the Prime Minister at the meeting raise various options for consequences or pressure for countries to comply with decisions already taken?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-412	Mr President, I would like to It's not a new line. It is only about the balance between what is desirable and what is possible. Under the current rules it is not possible. The desirability is that such rules should be laid down. That is why we are saying that we want to push it forward for the next budget. The answer is yes – I raised it during the meeting. It is not possible to be a member of an organization and believe that you can only do what is fun, easy and desirable. You also have to stand up for what is a little more difficult. We cannot have order in Europe where this is possible. If we had that order, much else could be different in the European Union, such as the budget and that kind of cooperation. So I raised that question.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-414	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I have another question. In the conclusions we have heard on the internal dimension, it is clear from the ongoing work carried out in recent months to review the Common European Asylum System that there are certain areas where coherence prevails, while other areas require further work. Would the Prime Minister like to develop what areas could be covered? Does Sweden have any allies on these issues? Is the Prime Minister going to push any of these questions?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-416	Mr President, I would like to I'm not just going to push it, I'm already doing it. Sweden, among other things, has been the driving force for a common asylum system. There are also a few others who say that some kind of joint and several responsibility is needed. However, we have not yet come to the point where everyone says that everyone should take joint responsibility for the reception of asylum. We're not there. Sweden, Germany and others, however, are driving this. That is why we need to continue that discussion. That's really what it says. There are a few more who understand the need for this. However, we have not come to the point where everyone feels they need to take joint responsibility for the reception of asylum. Hence also the discussion about so-called flexible solidarity – some want to do completely different things. That is why this work remains to be done, but that is why it was also important for us to have this in place that the goal of the next Presidency, that is, the next six months, must be that we arrive at a common system.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-418	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for reporting back from the European Council. I, too, and my party, want to condemn yesterday's terrorist attacks throughout Europe and also in Turkey. Our thoughts, of course, go to the relatives. One of the issues dealt with at the European Council was, as so many times before, migration. The EU is talking here about promises of assistance to the Balkan and Mediterranean countries to prevent migrants from reaching the EU's external borders. However, this is something that must not just be a way for the governments of the Member States to shovel out the problems that exist. The first safe country of asylum principle must apply and the Dublin rules must be respected. Nor should Turkey be granted visa-free status just in order to resolve an acute crisis in the short term. Handing over more power to the EU in this area is quite the wrong way to go, in our view. There is often criticism of countries in the EU, not least in Eastern Europe, which do not receive enough asylum seekers. The Prime Minister usually talks about various sanctions to be imposed on these countries. However, one issue that does not arise in this debate is that countries such as Italy also do not respect certain rules and decisions that have been taken. Italy leaks more or less like a sieve in the case of asylum seekers, who move on to other European countries, not least Germany and Sweden. My question to the Prime Minister is how he views this problem. Does the Prime Minister think that greater pressure should be put on EU Member States like Italy to respect the Dublin Regulation? Should the principle of first safe country of asylum apply?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-423	Mr President, I would like to Pavel Gamov talks about more power for the EU. I don't see it that way. What we want to achieve together is a system that is more robust for Sweden as well. That is why we want this cooperation and the common rules, so that everyone takes responsibility, not just a few countries. This cooperation is to the benefit of Sweden. Should you follow the regulations that exist? The answer is, of course, yes. Nothing else can be relevant. Of course, what we have agreed will be kept. The discussion that has been on the wallpaper for a long time is about making sure to provide support where it is most pressure. We have also developed cooperation there. That is why, for example, we are developing Easo. That is also why we are providing resources from different parts of Europe for us to maintain the external borders, which, of course, is crucial for the functioning of internal borders. That is an important principle. If there is order at the external borders, there will be order and order within the EU.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-425	Mr President, I would like to I cannot really see a concrete answer in what the Prime Minister said. How will it be ensured, for example, that countries such as Italy and other countries that form the EU's external border will ensure that asylum seekers are not released into other countries? The Dublin Regulation is still in force. Although the Prime Minister and other parties in this House are talking about a common asylum system, we do not have one today. We are, by the way, the only party opposed to it. The question remains, and the Prime Minister is guilty of the answer. How to ensure that countries such as Italy respect the Dublin Regulation? I would also like guarantees from the Prime Minister that Sweden will not be affected by the redistribution. We have already taken a huge responsibility, as it is said. How are we to ensure that in future we will not be allocated even more asylum seekers from the European Union?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-427	Mr President, I would like to The answer is that the regulations we have are to be kept, and that is what all countries must do. Then we need to help where there is more pressure, for example in Italy and Greece. That's where we have to help each other. That is why we are strengthening the organisation Easo. We help with staff downstairs, and others help with staff. It is in order for us to ensure that we keep track of internal migration within the EU as well. There was a question of guarantees. All of this is aimed at more countries taking responsibility. It is precisely because Sweden, together with a couple of other three countries, should not have to take full responsibility. The whole job is to share the responsibility. It is just like here in Sweden where all municipalities are allowed to share responsibility. In the EU, all countries will share responsibility. That's exactly what we're pushing for now. It aims to ensure that Sweden and some other countries do not have to take full responsibility.
i-7S4rk1RZCvKDPKikd9Bne6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the report from the Prime Minister on the Council meeting that has been held! I would like to begin by agreeing with the Prime Minister's statements on the tragedies that have occurred in the last 24 hours and also agree with what the Prime Minister said about the fight against terrorism and hatred in our society and in communities around us. My questions will be about Syria and Brexit. The Prime Minister reports that there was a statement that required certain things to protect Syrian people, the Syrian people. My question is: What more can be done to protect people in Syria? Was it discussed at the Council meeting that the EU can do additional things to protect people who are currently suffering something terrible? Can Sweden possibly take any initiative to do further things for the people of Syria? So over to Brexit. This is a major issue for Sweden and for the Union as a whole. My questions in that discussion relate to whether everyone agrees on how to deal with the coming British withdrawal from our Union, or whether there are tendencies that someone wants to break out of the joint negotiation with Britain when that day comes.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-432	Mr President, I would like to First to the question of Syria. What else can be done? Of course it was discussed. Everything must be done here. Human life is at stake, and it is a terrible situation. There are at least two perspectives on this. One is the military. What can you do? There's a conflict going on. The terrible war that is going on there is one of the reasons why we are not getting there with humanitarian aid or people coming out. Now the evacuation has begun and been going on. Let's hope everyone can make it. The second is purely humanitarian. There has been a completely false impression that the EU is doing nothing. I'm not saying Eskil Erlandsson says that. But from outside it sometimes comes: Europe does nothing. It's all wrong. The EU was among the first to be present in the neighbourhood as well. Sweden has a strategy for this too. It is an aid strategy in which we are a major donor. There you can always do more. Unfortunately, now is the bottleneck in this access to people and that people come out. That's the focus now. I also made it clear that we have to do everything. Of course, if there is something we can do more where we can really help people, we should. It is human lives that must be saved. On the second issue of Brexit, I see no tendency for anyone to break out and run a solo race here. We have been clear on the times we had discussions about Brexit that it is a matter of sticking together. It is crucial in such a complex negotiation to do so. That is why it is important that the European Council now says to the General Council: you are preparing, and it is the Commission that is negotiating, so that there is a certain order in this. So far, I don't see any tendencies towards secession.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-439	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to my questions! To return to Syria: Is it possible to seek alliances with additional countries, Member States of the Union, to put further pressure on Russia? As I see it, it is the key to being able to carry out further efforts for the people of Syria. Are there opportunities for the Prime Minister, Sweden or allies to Sweden to seek support so that we get further pressure on the warmongness that is in the area today?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-441	Mr President, I would like to What came to the conclusion was: The European Council strongly condemns the continued assaults on Aleppo by the Syrian regime and its allies, notably Russia and Iran. As I said, on two occasions I have mentioned the possibility of linking sanctions to Russian citizens to the Syria conflict and not just to the Ukraine conflict. There is far from agreement there. Unfortunately, there is no such basis. That's where you cry out pretty lonely. There are a couple of states that can imagine that. But we still have to keep up the pressure that is going on. The EU is in contact with Russia, Iran and Saudi Arabia. It is direct bilateral contact for pressure work so that we can put an end to this madness. After all, such work is under way.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-443	Mr President, Prime Minister. I would very much like to agree with the Prime Minister's words that yesterday was a day of sadness for our continent. A truck mowed down a crowd in Berlin, the Russian ambassador was shot to death in Turkey and in Zürich three Muslim men were brutally murdered. The Terror has shown his ugly face. We also see in Poland how freedom of the press is threatened when the right-wing populist government wants to restrict media access to Parliament to report. We have a crisis in Europe on many fronts. We have an ongoing hellfire in Syria in Aleppo. It is a war that has now lasted almost as long as World War II, soon for six years. There will come a time after the war. I was therefore very pleased that the Prime Minister reported that the European Council had discussed how to hold people accountable for all the war crimes, mass rapes and mass bombings that have plagued the Syrian people for almost six years. The perpetrators have been in the form of Islamist terrorists in Daish, Russia's actions but of course also al-Assad's military dictatorship. I have some more concrete escapes. There are many different proposals that are now being debated in both the European Council and in the UN Security Council where Sweden will soon take its place. There we discuss how to answer these war criminals. What concrete proposals did the Prime Minister press for the European Council?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-446	Mr President, I would like to That's correct. Hell in Syria must end. Perhaps the most important thing now is humanitarian and then to put an end to the fighting at all. We risk going towards more scenes of the slaughter of people in other parts of Syria if this does not stop. When it comes to how to actually hold people accountable for this, the process will show how it can be done. Some are through the International Criminal Court. But not everyone is connected to it. I don't have exactly in my head who's covered by it. For those who are not included, it is much more difficult. Then you have to have some other legal process for this. But the ICC is an opportunity, and otherwise you have to find others. Exactly how this would be done was not discussed at this meeting. The European Council notes that this is such a serious crime. Some may well be war crimes. Then it has to be addressed. The point here was to establish it and not exactly how it would happen but that it must be on the agenda once this hell has ended.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-449	Mr President, Prime Minister. I think it is important that Sweden now tries to find a strong profile and a line on the question of holding war criminals to account. We note that at international level, there is a clear debate on how Daish, the Islamic State, mass murderers and terrorists in particular can be held accountable. Let us remember that already in 1943, before the end of World War II, the Allies began to try to draw up a plan for what then became the Nuremberg trials. I think that is a concrete proposal to highlight both in the European Council in the future and, of course, in the Security Council as to how we can hold Daish war criminals to account in the future. This is certainly something that all the veto states could also support. It is all the more complicated, as the Prime Minister mentioned, how both the Asad of the military dictatorship and, of course, Russia can be punished. It is a much more complicated story, but yet it is equally important that none of those who have murdered people should walk away from it.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-452	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Birgitta Ohlsson's view. That is why it is so important to review this: What are the possibilities? There is not only one solution, but let us look at the various possibilities that exist. The conclusion must be that such crimes cannot just pass. They must be taken care of in the best way in the various actors, and we must simply look at what is the best possible way.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-454	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. A few minutes before what happened in Berlin yesterday, a fellow Member of Parliament left me the place for the Christmas market. He survived his life, but we very much regret all those who have suffered this terrible attack. According to the German police, it is apparently a supposed terrorist attack, but we do not have the full answer yet. My son was also at a Christmas market in Berlin yesterday, so it got very close. It took me a while to get in touch with him and find out he was safe. This is happening to us, and it is getting very close to us. Berlin is close. It is our neighbourhood, and it is within Europe's borders. If the terrorist attacks continue in Europe, none of us will be able to feel protected. In this context, what has been discussed on the EU agenda is important. At the same time, it is extremely complicated that, while the fight against terrorism is going on, we are going to do something about migration. The fight against terrorism and tolerance and transparency must be balanced. In this context, the issue of defence is discussed. Among other things, there is something about defence expenditure. I have a few questions for the Prime Minister. It says that we should develop the necessary capabilities for a commitment to the common defence and security policy work. My questions are: Which input did the Swedish Prime Minister make? What does the Prime Minister think is the right measure and the right level for the Swedish part? And what does the Prime Minister think Sweden should contribute to the European Defence Fund?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-458	Mr President, I would like to As far as security is concerned, it is good that we are now gradually developing cooperation against terrorism. We have to hold on to that. That is why the security chapter – if I may say so – during the meeting was very important in terms of both internal security and security against external threats. This work will continue to develop. As far as defence expenditure is concerned, we have long agreed that we want greater cooperation in this area but on the basis of national decision-making competence. It is we who decide what defence expenditure we should have. We've made rapid reaction force available. Its worse, this has not been used once yet. My entrance has been that as long as this is not even used, there is no point in continuing to move forward positions and think about new big projects. Let us at least get started on what is actually supposed to work first! There is no doubt that we have every reason to think about how we develop cooperation. Sweden has chosen as a principle that, in addition to increasing our own military capabilities, we want to develop cooperation with a number of different actors. The EU is one of them. The purpose of the fund is, among other things, to develop research and development, but it is also about capacity enhancement. You get to see from time to time what needs to be done, what Sweden can contribute with and what Sweden would need. Let us remember that we have the opportunity to benefit greatly from such cooperation. You have to come back to it, but it is a national decision that will decide what we should contribute with. I hope that in various ways we can contribute to industrial development and be involved in a number of development projects that we will benefit from.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-462	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for that answer. It is good that the Prime Minister sees that there is a need. At the same time, it was a little unclear how much and what Sweden has ambitions in this area. I do not know if the Prime Minister will be able to give any further answers that are a little more clarification. And in what way will Parliament be involved in developing resources for European defence cooperation and joint security work? I have another question. Several here have raised important issues about Syria and so on, and I am not going to repeat them. On the other hand, I was going to ask about the Ukraine Agreement and the annex that now exists on the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement, including the establishment of the free trade area. It is a little unclear to me what is really the purpose. How will we return to the question of Ukraine and the European Union?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-464	Mr President, I would like to As far as Sweden's contribution is concerned, it can once again be determined in a discussion of what is needed. Then we will see what Sweden will contribute with. It is not someone who decides what Sweden should contribute, but then the process comes back and we have to decide for ourselves what it is that we can plan to do, as it has been done before when we have set up resources for rapid reaction force. The question of Ukraine was raised to make it clear that after the Dutch referendum, which ended in a negative way, it is important to move forward in the process. That is why both the conclusions and the decision itself have stated that these clarifications can be taken forward with ratification. For example, this does not automatically mean that Ukraine becomes a candidate country. It is also a question of managing the visa process in such a way that we believe that Ukraine should be visa-free.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-466	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to agree with the Prime Minister's grief and anger at what has happened in Germany, Ankara and Syria. It's been a really bad year. In fact, I would like to use an expression of strength, but then I will be told by the President. I am therefore saying that it has been a very bad year. We hope that next year will be better. These events show the need for cooperation. The actions are cowardly, but to get to grips with this we need more cooperation and not less. There the EU has an important role to play. I am thinking of the fight against terrorism, cross-border crime and internal and external borders – of course all the time taking into account national competences. It is important to emphasise this, as did the Prime Minister. Of course, many people have been on the issue of Syria because what is going on there is appalling. I have to say that, in addition to the four points on which there was agreement, it is incredibly successful for a united Europe to say that those responsible for this should also be held accountable. This is an important message from the European Union. Sometimes we can feel that we are taking ant steps forward when it comes to migration in what we have already decided on. For me and for the Social Democracy, it is important, as the Prime Minister has said, that everyone should share responsibility, just as all municipalities should. Now the Prime Minister all of a sudden also says that it is a date set. It was a little unknown that the European Council suddenly came forward with a date for this to be implemented. Would the Prime Minister like to develop this?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-471	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the view on terrorism and so on and the need for cooperation. This is constantly evolving, and more will be needed. These powers will never win. As I said, we want to take forward the question of Syria and ensure that the guilty are held to account. As far as migration and date setting are concerned, we have been discussing this for a long time. Even at this meeting, of course, there were those who would consider discussing this another year, and another year, and another year. That way you can hold on for a long time. But it's not okay with me. Then we won't get anywhere. That is why we wanted at least a clear objective to be set. It should have been done by now. It's not done now. That is why the proposal was put forward that it should probably be made clear during future presidencies, that is to say the Maltese Presidency. It expires at six months – hence this. We must therefore increase our ambitions. It is expressed in such a way, with such a goal, so that we do not end up in a discussion that never ends. Then we will achieve nothing.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-475	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Migration is indeed the big, challenging issue ahead. As I said, it is not easy to move the European Union from words to deeds. It must therefore be said that it was successfully fought, if I understand it correctly, by Germany and Sweden to arrive at a date. I understand that work will not end with it. Nevertheless, it is positive that this objective has been set. If we do not solve this, the European Union will lose out enormously – given the lack of humanity shown to the rest of the world.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-478	Mr President, I would like to What Marie Granlund is now putting forward is one of the strong arguments that we have used all the time: It is this threat that many people also see. It is a success that we achieved the clear objective. It puts pressure on everyone. Now, in fact, everyone has committed themselves to stand up for these conclusions. It also means that even those who are not very fond of the idea may contribute, because that is our joint commitment. But it is a goal that we should get there.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-480	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for giving me the floor. Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from the summit. Not least, I would like to thank you for the words of participation following the disgusting acts of terrorism that we have seen. One of the troubled corners of Europe is Turkey, which we talked about before the Prime Minister went to the summit. We then talked about where the limit is when the EU can or cannot have a very friendly relationship with the Turkish regime, with Mr Erdo at the forefront. If I remember correctly, the Prime Minister also said that there is a limit to when, for example, one cannot negotiate as before with Turkey. Only since that discussion has the situation in Turkey worsened further. Even more opposition politicians have been arrested, for one reason only: that they have criticized politics in the country and, for example, talked about the rights of the Kurds. We have also seen something quite unprecedented. They have with lynch mobs stormed the party HDP's party premises. They've been burned down. People have been beaten up. They've stolen batch material from them. In a police state like Turkey, such things cannot happen without the good memory of the government. This can only happen if the government allows a political party to be attacked in this way. Does the Prime Minister think that the border has been reached now, that it is time to be a little clearer with Turkey? Should it also have an impact on the possibility of continuing the accession negotiations? I do not mean that they should be completely interrupted, but that they should be frozen until there is a democratic development in Turkey. If the line didn't go here, where does it go?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-487	Mr President, I would like to It is clear – I have confirmed it several times – that the violations of freedom of expression, the imprisonment or the dismissal of so many people are a development in the completely wrong direction. There's no doubt about it. Jonas Sjöstedt and I agree on that. One question is how what is being done affects the refugees who are present in Turkey. And the second question is how to influence developments in Turkey as a country, depending on what you do. I firmly believe that we would not be doing the refugees in Turkey any great service if we were to suspend cooperation. The support provided by the EU is for them. It's their shelter, their food and their roof over their heads. It's work. It's education. That's what we're giving it to. It's important to hold on to it. There are many people who are under severe hardships. These are the ones we support. As far as developments in Turkey are concerned, negotiations are under way on the basis of the chapters that are being opened on the occasions that we agree to open such chapters. Therefore, it is not possible to set an exact limit, that the limit will be reached if something special happens. But, of course, a watershed is the death penalty. We've said that before. Should the death penalty be introduced in Turkey, we are in a new situation. It is not compatible with EU rules. So we have a different situation. That is an example.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-491	Mr President, I would like to I and the Prime Minister have different views on the refugee agreement. We have discussed this before. I believe that it has been created most in order for refugees not to be able to get to Europe and not for the sake of refugees. That, I mean, is the meaning of the agreement. However, my supplementary question concerns another part of the summit, the forthcoming negotiations with the United Kingdom. I think it is unfortunate to leave a reactionary Tory government and the European Commission to discuss the terms of the British withdrawal. It will not be a good political content. It is basically a very political issue. I would like the Swedish Government to be more aggressive in formulating alternatives. As much as it is about the relationship of the British with the EU, it is about our relationship with the British. It is extremely important that we can shop, travel and study as before. Stefan Löfven! Is it a good thing if the UK joined the EFTA? Then there is an institutional framework to stand on. Norway and Iceland are members of the EFTA. That'd be pretty natural, wouldn't it? You can have an opinion on that.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-495	Mr President, I would like to As far as the refugee agreement is concerned, I do not share the view that it should be seen only in this way. When people run away, you don't want to run automatically as far as it ever goes. Those whom I met in Zaatari, Jordan, said: we want to go back as quickly as possible. So I am not buying the argument that the agreement is only there to prevent people from coming to Europe. It's for people to get it reasonably decent in a very difficult situation. As far as British withdrawal is concerned, they have to decide for themselves. You can stand and dream of a lot of things. But how the British want to view their relationship with the European Union is not our decision. That's what they're discussing. What we discussed was getting a transparent and transparent process and that we want to take this forward in a pragmatic way, so that we can end up with a good relationship – between the EU and the UK but also between Sweden and the UK. So it is not up to me to decide what they want.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-499	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the summit report. I fully agree with the Prime Minister's participation in the condolences about the acts of violence and the violations of our democracy that have taken place in Europe in recent days. When the situation in Aleppo came out through the media images last week, there were many here in Sweden who followed the extremely difficult and heavy situation of those who are there. It was important that the Heads of State or Government spent a lot of time discussing the conflict last Thursday, as the Prime Minister reports, and that reports were received directly from there. It also acted by making clear demands on peace, on increased humanitarian aid resources and on getting to a situation where a process can be found forward, that is, a situation where it is possible to build something other than war in that region. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how and what opportunities he sees for the EU to develop the capabilities he spoke about in terms of conflict prevention and the situation in Syria here and now. Can the EU be even better at coordinating the aid efforts, major humanitarian operations, which must be made ongoing now and probably for quite some time to come? Can the EU become an even better player in terms of getting several players to cooperate and in order to increase the effectiveness of the support that all people now need for the winter?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-504	Mr President, I would like to It is important that what we are doing now supports the UN and UN work. That's supposed to be the base for what we do. That has also been the case so far. As I said, Europe is not a new player in this area. The EU was probably among the first players, if not the first player. We'll stay that way. It is clear that it is always possible to streamline and complement each other in a better way. I do not have a concrete proposal on exactly what needs to be done, but we must keep in mind that the support and assistance we provide should be as effective as possible so that the support and assistance reach as many people as possible as quickly as possible. You have to work with that all the time. EU-wide work is one way. Instead of a host of countries doing their job, we have a common job. That's one way. Whatever can be done to make the work better and more efficient is, of course, good.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-509	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The fact that the EU is a uniting player in such large jobs is of course extremely important. I come to another issue that was raised at the summit. The EU's common position is, of course, important. The EU Heads of State or Government managed to clarify the relationship with Ukraine and the Association Agreement. I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the summit made progress on this issue. Of course, Sweden has good and strong relations with Ukraine, but what can really help the situation forward is that the EU continues to be the helping friend of Ukraine that Sweden so badly wants you to be. It must be clear that the Association Agreement can move forward. I have a question similar to that put by Jonas Sjöstedt, but not in this direction of the Brexit negotiations. It is also important that the EU does not play with a variety of voices but is united on Brexit.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-513	Mr President, I would like to Let me bring up Brexit first. We in the European Union agree to be one vote now. That is why the Commission is to conduct the negotiations. The European Council must, of course, set the conditions, the framework and the direction of the negotiations. The General Council will then take the work forward, draw up the principles and prepare the negotiations, but the Commission will manage the negotiations itself – so that there will be a vote. I think this is complicated. It will be a hugely complicated negotiation. It's actually hard to understand. Then there was the question of Ukraine. It's good that we're moving on. It is not the perfect situation, but on the basis of the referendum in Holland, it is a good thing that we are moving forward. There are some clarifications as to what this means and does not mean, but there is no doubt that the EU is a friend of Ukraine and wishes Ukraine well. Cooperation will continue. At the same time, the EU is pressing for the abolition of corruption, for example.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-516	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to agree with the condemnation of the terrible acts of violence we have seen in the last 24 hours and to show my condolences. Syria occupied a great deal of the Council's time. It is positive that the wording of the conclusions was more detailed than they were before the Council meeting. Russia's role in the war is highlighted more clearly. It is also positive that the Council was able to agree on the four points, which are of course crucial. It also states in the conclusions that the HR will continue its direct contacts with stakeholders and that the EU is considering all options available. The question was asked just now to the Prime Minister, but I still ask my questions: does the Prime Minister see any further options for the EU to act in any way to influence the situation in Syria in a positive direction? Are there other ways of putting further pressure on Russia so that there are tangible economic and political consequences? I would also like to commend the Prime Minister for raising the issue and trying to get it tested in order to move forward in establishing some kind of sanctions so that they are both politically and economically felt by Russia.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-521	Mr President, I would like to Precisely with regard to sanctions against Russian citizens – let us say, so that we are careful – it is Sweden, Britain and possibly some other country. Unfortunately, there is no more. But it was important to keep the writing and exhaust all possibilities. Then you have to think about what sanctions this would be. It is to keep the issues on the agenda and to mark. There are no other concrete proposals at the moment. The issue of sanctions against Russian citizens has been tried at two meetings, and then we have to move on. In this way, the EU indicates that it does not leave the issue alone but needs to be dealt with further. As stated in the conclusions, it is undoubtedly the Syrian regime that is primarily responsible. It is completely incomprehensible that a country's leaders can expose their country to this. The country is in ruins. That man is pleased with what happened last week and looks happy. What is happening now in Aleppo is completely incomprehensible. The actions of Russia and Iran are also a consequence of this that we absolutely do not want to see. How can we act? As Karin Enström said, it is important that the High Representative is already in contact with everyone bilaterally. It applies to anyone who can do anything. This applies primarily to the USA and Russia, but it also applies to Saudi Arabia, Iran and other players, in order to press with the EU's common voice for the war to end. Now it is humanitarian, here and now, and avoiding future similar scenes where people are slaughtered, hospitals bombed and children murdered. It has to stop. The pressure we are exerting is constantly – it is important to say this once again – to give support to the work of the UN. What can ultimately do is a UN resolution, that is to say, to have a unified Security Council.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-526	Mr President, I would like to One issue that is painfully linked to the violent events of the last 24 hours is, of course, the issue that the Council also dealt with about internal security and external security. The conclusions state that the joint agreement on combating terrorism, which is of course extremely urgent, should be followed by a rapid adoption of the proposals on firearms and the fight against money laundering. What does this mean, and is this linked to the Arms Directive, which has been under much discussion and debate in the EU Board before Council meetings? Did the Prime Minister say something below that point, and what can we expect on this issue?
i-9kXiNs7n8NxTNQPhWEegnX	Mr President, I would like to The political agreement between the co-legislators on the Counter-Terrorism Direct is an important step and should be followed by swift adoption of the proposals on firearms. ..................................................... There we have our own legislation to limit the possession of weapons. This is what is being done at EU level and is to be implemented as quickly as possible at national level. It is a follow-up since before and to ensure that it actually happens.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-529	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the opening words, with which we all agree, on the joint responsibility we have in the fight against terrorism! In the UK, there is a very lively discussion about how to manage their own exit from the Union. The debate has become so lively that groups are now being pitted against each other, sent against each other, and parts of Scotland are threatening to hold their own referendum to see if it is possible to remain in the Union. Now the Prime Minister said that the informal meeting was short. Was it only process issues that were discussed or discussed any substance in how the process should proceed? How will it proceed? Did the Prime Minister run any special lines for Sweden?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-532	Mr President, I would like to The discussion now taking place in the UK is just as Dag Klackenberg describes. It is a sign that there was no plan B. Most of the people who drove Brexit probably thought that it would not get rid of it. But that's how it's gonna be. That's where you're handcuffed. What do you do now? For us on the other side of the negotiating table, such a discussion must be based on what relationship Britain wants with the European Union. There are a lot of variations. It will be a bit difficult for the rest of us to discuss how the negotiations should proceed in terms of content when we do not even know what the relationship Britain wants. The only thing we have heard is that it will not be, that or that; it will be Britain's solution. That's where we're going so far. That is why we believe it is important that we stand up and think that beyond this negotiation we still want a good relationship with Britain, both as a country and in the EU. We think that this is important, and we have to deal with this when you activate this article, i.e. the exit clause. Then we are ready to negotiate, but first we need to know how Britain views the relationship. Then we will see how it can be solved. Sweden's position has been pragmatic negotiation. It is not possible to divide the four freedoms and pick the raisins out of the cake, but they are based on a whole. That is what we intend to discuss in this hearing.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-536	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It is, of course, in our interest that we have the absolute best relationship with the UK, which is perhaps one of our most important partners in Europe – inside or outside the EU. The Prime Minister uses the word, that we are all fumbling about how to move forward. But perhaps the right word in this context is not fumbling. It can be a wise tactic not to decide now how to negotiate in the future but to let the English decide, as the Prime Minister says. There are Britons who are discussing in terms of the fact that there may not be any Brexit because the process will be so complicated for the British themselves. Then it may be foolish for the Union to have made demands that can tear up wounds for many years to come.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-539	Mr President, I would like to What I meant to say is that we do not know what they want. Then it will be difficult to enter into a substantive discussion about the hearing. So far, however, I believe that it should be assumed that it will happen. We must act as if it were to happen, even if we also hear those who think it is going to be so incredibly complicated that it is not worth it. There are those who express it, but the Swedish Government assumes that it will happen and that it will be activated by the end of March unless the legal process in the UK delays it all. That is our starting point.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-541	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister about possible discussions regarding Poland. I know that a process has been initiated within the European Union where there is criticism of anti-democratic developments in Poland and discussions about what the European Union can do to support more democratic development. In view of this, I wonder whether this discussion took place at the summit and, if it existed, what positions the Prime Minister expressed.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-543	Mr President, I would like to No, that question was not on the agenda. It was not part of this meeting, but there is a process that has its own course based on developments in Poland. This process between the Commission and Poland is ongoing, but it was not up at this meeting.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-544	Mr President, I would like to I will follow up the question and thank you very much for your answer. My second question concerns Turkey. Of course, I regret the incidents that have occurred in Turkey. I would also like to point out that I think it was positive that the Prime Minister mentioned that we must continue to have a relationship with Turkey within the European Union. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of the application of the principles of the rule of law in Turkey and of the fact that innocent people do not continue to suffer reprisals or restrictions on freedom of expression in Turkey. Was there any discussion of this, of course with a view to maintaining relations with Turkey but also condemning what has happened?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-547	Mr President, I would like to This is a very relevant discussion that Margareta Cederfelt is raising here. That discussion is, of course, taking place. We believe that this cooperation is important. But we do see what is happening with regard to freedom of speech, dismissals, imprisonments and so on. Of course it is noted, and it is constantly being taken into account. That's it. But we have come to the conclusion that this cooperation is important – not least, as I have said before, for the refugees. Then, in the course of the debate on membership, it follows a back-and-front approach which calls for a country to have a certain status on its democracy. There is security in that, but it is clear that the problems in Turkey are being weighed up.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-550	Mr President, I would like to It was natural that Syria, Ukraine and migration were the major issues at this summit. However, we can see that there are some disturbances also within the European Union, not least when we read, for example, that large Italian banks are experiencing huge problems and that there are still problems in many parts of southern Europe. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister a few questions. The first concerns the Banking Union. Will the banking union be able to survive in the first place if, even now, before it has been able to build up these funds, it is going to have to go into different banks? My second question concerns the EFSI. Here in Sweden, all parties have had a rather lukewarm attitude towards the EFSI, but we have felt that one can well accept it if necessary. One might say that the view has been. Did any discussion take place on how to ensure that no use is made of the space available in the EU budget for EFSI? My third and final question concerns the Energy Union. The Energy Union is always a big issue, but there is also a big difference. While we in this Parliament are discussing who can be the best at this renewable energy issue, in many places we do not want to put it in our mouths, but we still claim that natural gas and coal are the most important part of the energy mix. My question to the Prime Minister is: how is progressing to achieve the climate goals we have once actually set ourselves at an EU summit?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-554	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Banking Union is concerned, I cannot answer how things are going. There are, of course, worrying signs in individual banks, but one can also think about the economy overall. We are probably seeing a rise in economic activity. It's good. On the other hand, it can raise interest rates, and higher interest rates mean higher interest costs for those with high debts. It can also affect this. So I do not want to go for a guess about the banking union. It is too big a question that I have not prepared in any way. About the EFSI, we have said exactly as Börje Vestlund says: It is not the perfect solution, but let us try. We have so many young people who go unemployed that we have to do something, and then it is important to try the question of whether we can do some more with the EFSI. However, I think that the extended guarantee is more important because it becomes like a tick in the efforts we are going to make for young people. The Energy Union was also not discussed at this meeting. But we have set our goals, and the agreement is to be kept. It is one of the parts of the European Union in this – to ensure that we achieve the climate agreement that we have concluded. There's like no turning back. Therefore, despite what Börje Vestlund says, there are those who still hold on to both coal and gas, we must move on. There I think that Sweden and Swedish companies can make a good contribution, because this requires new technology. New technologies will also provide jobs, so there is every opportunity. But there's still a long way to go.
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-557	Mr President, I would like to We in the EU Council sometimes have the privilege of meeting colleagues from the rest of Europe. I can say that every time we discuss migration and energy, we are almost afraid of the dark. It's not a funny situation. But my question was about the internal market. That's something we all say is very good, but we see all the time that countries are very resourceful – maybe we ourselves are – when it comes to finding obstacles to the internal market. It is something that is constantly going around, and we can hear from our colleagues that they want to protect their respective markets, their industry, their agriculture. That's the most important thing of all, and you don't see the whole thing. What is the Prime Minister's assessment of how to develop the internal market and ensure that these barriers are removed as far as possible, rather than, as they are today, trying to set up even more barriers?
i-04085bc1b2a7da66-560	Mr President, I would like to I share your concern. There are more and more voices to stop. One moment we are discussing free trade agreements with Canada, the United States and others, and the other moment we are discussing how much we can prevent these free trade agreements from becoming reality. So it's a danger. There is no doubt that obstacles are sometimes needed, so we must have such instruments. In these conclusions, it also comes with a text stating that we should now start the discussion with Parliament on how these instruments should be developed. However, even at the last European Council, I pointed out that there must not be as much a race against obstacles as possible, because then we have destroyed ourselves. Use them with caution, because we know that some of these obstacles have actually been to the detriment of the European Union. It will be harder for China to export, but it will be easier for Russia. And it becomes more difficult for companies inside the EU to import when prices are raised. There is therefore every reason to be careful about this, and there is a risk of increased protectionism.
