i-f8638303d5efc6e9-0	Mr President, I would like to Mr Wallmark has asked me the following questions: What conclusions does the Minister for Defence draw from the commitments made by the United States towards Sweden in terms of what they mean in practice? How does the Minister of Defence see that the commitments made by the United States to Sweden are not contained in any document that makes them binding? How does the Secretary of Defense view the difference between US commitments and NATO's Article 5? How does the Minister of Defence assess Russia's perception of the statement made by Joe Biden, clearly directed against Russia, during his visit to Sweden? The defence of Sweden is ultimately our own national responsibility. This applies both to our national defence capabilities and to our ability to act jointly with others in order to promote stability and security. The ever-widening bilateral and multilateral collaborations carried out by Sweden have a stabilising effect in our neighbourhood. Cooperation with Finland, where we have also begun operational planning for situations beyond peace-time conditions, is one way to take a broader responsibility for security. It is a cooperation that has been noted internationally as a new way of meeting the security challenges in our part of Europe. Cooperation with Denmark, as well as enhanced cooperation with the Baltic countries, Poland, the United Kingdom and the United States, help to strengthen security cooperation around the Baltic Sea but also to make the transatlantic link very clear. Sweden's and Finland's commitment to NATO's partnership is something that contributes to our security but also to an increased military capability. Nordic cooperation, Nordefco, creates a Nordic network that has implemented over the years over 100 cooperation projects. Our aim is to build a security network around Sweden from an alliance-free position. In order to build this network strongly and firmly, we also need to make use of the full range of our security policy instruments which, in addition to defence, include diplomacy, mediation and confidence-building measures in order to contribute to detour and stability. These collaborations complement and strengthen each other and the security of our neighbourhood. Transatlantic cooperation is fundamental to both American and European security. Many regional and global challenges can only be met if Europe and the US act together. Sweden's bilateral cooperation with the US is a high priority, as is evident from the joint declaration of intent signed by myself and my American colleague, Minister of Defence Ashton Carter in June of this year. The letter of intent covers five areas: interoperability, exercises and training, equipment cooperation, research and development, and multinational operations. Cooperation creates the conditions for acting together. In the light of the questions asked, I would like to emphasise that cooperation does not involve joint plans or commitments. Our partnership with NATO is continuously being developed mainly within the framework of the individual partnership programme EOP, the Enhanced Opportunities Programme, and concerns, among other things, capability development, increased practice cooperation, improved exchange of information and an in-depth security policy dialogue between Sweden, Finland and NATO on the security of the neighbourhood. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes another EU or Nordic country. We take responsibility for our common security. However, it is not feasible to lock into specific scenarios or what concrete measures would be required in such situations. An increased Swedish military capability in accordance with the defence policy direction 2016 – 2020 is necessary to raise the defence threshold, but also to give a clear signal to the outside world that our country assumes its security policy responsibility on the basis of military alliance freedom.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-13	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defense, for the answer to my interpellation. But, Mr President, most of the questions I asked were basically not answered by the Minister for Defence. Then I would like to repeat some of the core issues again. Is there or is there no form of obligation or commitment, open or hidden, on the part of the United States? This is binary. It can only be zero or one. It can only be on or off. The answer from the Secretary of Defense is central. If these do not exist, we can believe, hope, wish, that other countries, including the United States, will come to our aid if something serious happens in our neighbourhood. But we can never know. We can only know if there are binding obligations that others come to our aid. As far as I am concerned, there is really only one way to really know, not believe, hope, wish, pray, namely via a Swedish NATO membership. Mr President, I would like to US Vice President Joe Biden was in Stockholm a couple of weeks ago. In this connection, he made a number of statements. In Swedish it sounded something like this: Let there be no misunderstanding, with Mr Putin or anyone else, that this is inviolable territory... The inviolable territory of Joe Biden was, of course, Sweden. In connection with the statement, several media eportages were written about this. One of them proclaimed that the U.S. message to Putin was welcomed by the minister. The Minister in this case, Mr President, is Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Among other things, a newspaper article says that the government welcomes the fact that US Vice President Joe Biden warned Russia against violating Swedish territory. Biden's message is the result of two years of intense contacts with the United States. This is an important statement and a good signal that we welcome," says Peter Hultqvist. Mr President, I would like to What does this mean? What's its status? Do we or don't we? These are the key issues. If we do not have, there is only one way to increase Swedish security and security in the Baltic Sea region, namely through a Swedish NATO membership. Therefore, the central question is: Is there or is there no form of unspoken or hidden promise or unspoken or hidden obligation? The Secretary of Defence referred to the agreement he has signed with his American counterpart, that is, the US Secretary of Defence. That agreement has an open part and a secret annex. Is there anything in the secret annex that can shed light on this? These are key questions that I think the Minister for Defence must answer and explain. Is there or isn't there? What is the big difference in principle between believing, hoping, wishing, praying, wanting and really knowing?
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-23	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would urge Wallmark to listen to what I am saying. I would urge Mr Wallmark to read through the written version of my reply one more time. In the light of the questions raised, I would like to stress that cooperation does not involve joint plans or commitments. ..................................................... I believe that the questions put by Mr Wallmark again were answered and clarified in my initial answer. Read the text afterwards, and note what the answer says. Listen to what I'm saying! Do not hold a debate on something that has already been clarified. When assessing what we are trying to do, according to the parliamentary decision Wallmark himself has participated in, it is a matter of deepening a variety of relationships. This is not just about the relationship between Sweden and the United States. I know that there are stakeholders in the debate who are pushing that it should either be a relationship with the US or join NATO. We do not see this as simple as that; it is a palette of measures. The Swedish-Finnish cooperation, where we also look at scenarios beyond peacetime conditions, continuously practises together with the army, aircraft and marine and makes a wide range of arrangements to mutually reinforce each other, is an important cooperation that is a security policy signal. It also indicates opportunities in the event of the crisis. What we are doing now is joining the cyber centre in Tallinn and the Strategic Communication Centre in Riga, as well as renewing our other relations with the Baltic countries, by signing agreements with Poland and also participating in training activities in Poland, such as the Anakonda 16 exercise, by having agreements with Denmark to make use of both airspace and bases in certain situations, by having hundreds of different types of projects and with the UK an agreement with 53 points and by building this agreement with five points in relation to the United States – all of which are part of a strategy to prevent conflict, to create a threshold, to create interoperability and opportunities to cooperate based on some kind of division of work in an emergency situation. But the most important thing is actually to ensure that conflicts are prevented. I never hear Wallmark or any other Moderate talk about it. What is the conflict prevention scenario? Do you have any idea at all about this? It doesn't seem interesting to you. You are discussing what is being done at the very last moment in a crisis situation, but that is what we are going to prevent it from occurring. We all agree on the analysis that there is a conflict in our part of Europe, one way or another we will all be involved. Therefore, whether you are in NATO or not, you need to look at and prepare opportunities for joint action in such a situation. It is only in this situation that we know exactly how we do the division of labour between countries – who does what in such a situation. So what we are doing with the United States, what we are doing with the United Kingdom, what we are doing with others, and what we are doing in the framework of the NATO partnership is a multifaceted package of measures to prevent a conflict situation and create thresholds, but also to be able to act in a situation where we have a crisis that we cannot predict what it looks like.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-31	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the comment, Minister of Defence. What the Minister of Defence is missing is that all these measures are about raising the threshold. It is also partly recognised. This does not mean that that is what should be used in the last situation. By helping to raise the threshold and increase security for Sweden and the Baltic Sea region, we can help secure peace and stability. That is why issues of this kind are so central. What steps are we taking, how are we cooperating and how are we getting extremely different forms of security guarantees? It is part of increasing security and thereby stability and thus securing peace. If the Minister for Defence is as unambiguous as I interpreted him in his previous speech as in the response that has now come, I understand that there are no binding guarantees or promises on the part of the United States. That leaves my other questions, which I raised in the interpellation. How does the Minister of Defence view the difference between what Biden said in Stockholm that the Minister appreciated and Article 5, which means that they have binding security guarantees? Now they create this network of different forms of cooperation and collaboration with mainly NATO countries – Finland is included, but it is mainly NATO countries that the Minister of Defence lists: Poland, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States. How will it be perceived by other players around the Baltic Sea, such as Russia? I believe that what the Minister of Defence and this government are about to put Sweden into is a situation of uncertainty. We make a lot of commitments and build relationships that are basically very good. But the key thing is that if it goes off, then Sweden lacks binding promises and guarantees that others will come to our aid. Again, it means that we can believe, hope and wish as the Secretary of Defense and this government do, but we can never know. That is why there is such a fundamental difference between NATO membership with Article 5 and this faith-and-hope line. This means that the Minister for Defence, even if it is not the ambition or the intention, is about to put Sweden in an uncertain situation. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to quote from the study presented a week ago by Ambassador Bringéus and som etcetera about NATO. Page 84 - 85 reads as follows: In the event of a crisis in the Baltic Sea region, planning for the coordination of US and Swedish measures is taking place, as the investigation has understood, not today. The operational planning is for Swedish national, while the American is conducted in two tracks, a NATO track and an American one. The processes are surrounded by a great deal of secrecy. This means that on the American side you do not know which Swedish preparations are being made, and that Sweden does not have knowledge of how the US and NATO, for their part, would operationally handle a crisis. ..................................................... And so the conclusion is that, according to the investigation, this may limit the overall conflict-remaining capacity of the West in the Baltic Sea region. ..................................................... The answer given by the Minister for Defence – no, we have no cooperation of this kind at the high level, and we have no promises – means that we are still weak in relation to the situation that may arise in the Baltic Sea region. I would like the Minister of Defence to develop this line of uncertainty by explaining what is the difference between what Biden said in Stockholm that the Minister of Defence liked and the binding security guarantee contained in Article 5. How will this be perceived by other countries?
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-42	Mr President, I would like to If Wallmark believes that practice activities, information exchange and various types of equipment collaboration create uncertainty, then I do not understand what Wallmark is doing. Is it an uncertain measure that Sweden participates in Baltops? Is it an uncertain measure that we operate cross-border training? Is it uncertainty that we are part of Cold Response or Arctic Challenge Exercise? That is an extremely strange view that Wallmark here is presenting. I note that the government I represent has done a great deal more to deepen our international cooperation and networks and to drive practical activity in this area compared to what you were in the vicinity of during the time you were in government. I have acted on the basis of what is stated in the defence decision and which the Swedish Parliament has decided. If the Swedish Parliament's decisions regarding exercise activities and all these collaborations, decisions that Wallmark himself has participated in, create uncertainty, Wallmark should probably ask himself what he really is involved in and press the button for the Swedish Parliament instead of standing here and conducting some kind of populist polemic debate with me. However, it would be interesting to hear from Wallmark about the following. It is clear that NATO membership represents a geopolitical change. It is clear that it will be perceived quite dramatically in the world around us as well. It will put pressure on Finland, for example. It will lead to different types of activities. The study, which is now so popular to refer to in different contexts and which by some seems to be raised almost to the level of legislation, refers to an increased tension situation. But there is nothing that seems to bother you in any way – that you have to handle different types of balances in order to find the right balance for the Swedish part based on our geographical position. Why are you prepared to take on an increased voltage? Do you think about what it really means in terms of increased activity on the psychological level and on the cyber side, practice activities and various types of provocative performances? Have you thought about those things at all? Could it be that in the time we now live in, with the very complex environment we have to deal with, it is far more resourceful to operate with different types of collaborations and build different types of action in a crisis situation based on a military alliance-free position together with Finland? In fact, it is possible to cooperate with countries regardless of whether they are in NATO or not. If Wallmark shares the view that Parliament has decided and that he himself has demonstrably pressed the button for, that a country cannot stand outside a crisis situation in our part of Europe if it arises, then it is also the case that whether we belong to NATO or not we will have a role in this. What this is going to look like is very hard to predict. There are many experts who have scenarios around this, but none of them can lead in proof that this is what it will look like in a crisis situation. But what should be done to avoid conflicts and raise thresholds? That is the combination of what we do and diplomacy, exchanges and all measures of that kind on the civilian side. This combination is the alternative to focusing only unilaterally on and believing that NATO membership solves our problems.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-49	Mr President, I would like to It is regrettable that the Minister for Defence cannot listen to himself. He states a great many facts that speak in the same direction, but he cannot pass his own ideological and traditionally constructed dike. What we are now doing with everything that this government and the alliance government have initiated and several things that we have decided on in the Swedish Parliament is that we increase cooperation and cooperation with other countries. It's basically good. It is good that we are cooperating further and deepened with NATO countries such as Poland, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. It is a good thing that we also cooperate with Finland in the area. But that makes there is a continuation, a logical line. What the Secretary of Defense is having such a hard time dealing with is the difference between knowing with certainty that others will come to our aid, our rescue and our assistance in case something happens and not knowing it. What the Minister of Defence leans against is a line of belief, hope and desire. But you can't know, and that's what creates the defense minister's uncertainty line. These are not all the good decisions on increased cooperation. It is not all the good decisions that mean that we strengthen the Swedish defence capability, but it is the inability to see the logical continuation. That is what means that, in the increased tension we find ourselves in, there is uncertainty. I think it would be much clearer and more honest to clarify exactly what is our hope, namely that we start from and know that others will come to our aid if something happens and that we plan and work for it. I believe that, Mr President, would help to increase safety for Sweden and the Baltic Sea region. The Secretary of Defense himself says that we have a role to play if anything happens. The problem is that, according to the Minister for Defence, we have a role to play without knowing that others will assist us.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-53	Mr President, I would like to What does Wallmark know about exactly what happens in a conflict situation? And what does Wallmark know about what is then the wisest thing to do, what a possible division of labour looks like and how effectively this has been handled in various organizations? I would just like to remind you that we have now provided assistance and support to France through Article 42(7) of the European Union. Doing so is subject to a certain amount of time. One can think about what it will look like in an emergency. But we are part of a network of solidarity with other countries, where we have fulfilled our commitment in a context. I assume that others will do so in a similar situation should we be affected. On the other hand, Wallmark does not fundamentally concern what I asked about: How is it intended to deal with a rising tension relationship, as described in the study that Wallmark now refers to almost with the Bible's weight? How should it be handled? What we are trying to do is to create stability as far as possible and not contribute to an increased tension ratio by not changing the security policy doctrine but at the same time seeing clearly what is happening around us. That is why we are raising our own military capabilities and deepening our cooperation. This, of course, also includes the possibility of creating more interoperability in the event that such a division of labour is found to be reasonable in a specific crisis scenario. It is very difficult to say exactly what such a scenario will look like. I would like to emphasise that we are discussing hypothetical events here, but what we have to do today is to deal with a security policy scenario where the situation has deteriorated but where we also need to have the ambition not to make a sharp move so that we push this further on our side. For that reason, however, we must not be naive, but must take the measures that Parliament and Wallmark themselves have raised.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-58	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah's been asking me. How I intend to act against the oppression of girls and women in housing for asylum seekers If I intend to take steps to ensure that there is information on asylum homes about where women can turn if they are subjected to honourary repression, violence in close relationships, harassment or other repression If I am prepared to take the initiative to introduce a compulsory introductory course for all who come here, so that everyone can early learn about the rights and obligations arising from Sweden's constitutions. It is obvious that all asylum seekers in Sweden should be able to feel safe during their stay in the housing facility and that they should not be subjected to any form of violence, repression or harassment. The Finnish Immigration Service is responsible for providing accommodation for asylum seekers who do not arrange their own accommodation. If there are criminal acts in the Migration Agency's accommodation, it is the responsibility of the authority to ensure that they are reported to the police. All asylum seekers offered a place at asylum accommodations are informed of the housing rules applicable. The information shows that everyone should be able to feel safe in their living environment and the importance of everyone in the accommodation respecting each other. The responsibility for disseminating knowledge about the rules and basic values that apply in Sweden rests with many of society's actors. The Finnish Immigration Service provides information early in the asylum process, but also others who meet asylum seekers – such as school, health care, social services, the police and, not least, civil society actors – have an important role to play. It goes without saying that those who have fled and seek refuge in our country will also comply with our laws when they come here. In order to increase security and maintain the order of asylum accommodations, the Finnish Immigration Service, together with the Police Authority, has taken measures that have led to a significant increase in the number of security guards and security officers at the accommodations. The Migration Agency also cooperates with the Police Authority in assessing whether persons should be moved from an asylum accommodation in order to avoid incidents. In that assessment, the focus is on the victim and on what is best for him or her. The main principle is that whoever caused an incident should be moved and not the victim. In order to offer vulnerable asylum seekers more secure housing with higher staff density and fewer co-habitants, the Finnish Immigration Service plans to open a number of shelters in the metropolitan areas during the autumn. Despite measures taken, prolonged waiting during the asylum process can strain the housing situation, and there may be conflicts in housing. It is therefore important that asylum seekers receive meaningful employment during the waiting period and that the Migration Agency works to shorten processing times. The government monitors the situation in the country's asylum accommodation through a close dialogue with the relevant authorities and municipalities. I trust that the Migration Agency will take the necessary measures to make asylum seekers feel safe in their accommodations, and I therefore do not intend to take any further action on these issues at the moment.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-69	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me whether I share the view of the Liberals that the minimum penalty for gross female poverty should be tightened. He has also asked me what measures I and the government intend to take in response to the Parliament's announcement on the law on gross violation of peace or gross violation of women's rights. Finally, he has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to assess the effectiveness of the legislation and to improve support for women and men who are exposed to serious threats and violence from relatives or former relatives. The work against men's violence against women and other close relatives is a high priority area for the government. Repeated abuse in the form of threats, violence and harassment of persons is a social problem that the government takes very seriously. It is usually about women who are exposed to men with whom they have or have had a close relationship. Society must react strongly to this type of crime and highlight the seriousness of such repeated crime. There must therefore be effective criminal law legislation. The penalty for gross violation of peace and gross reduction of women's rights was tightened on 1 July 2013. A continuous follow-up of criminal law and its enforcement takes place within the framework of the activities of the relevant law enforcement authorities. In addition, there may be a need to further evaluate the application of certain specific legislative changes. Reforms in the field of criminal law should only be evaluated after the legislation has been in force for some time. I intend to come back to the question of an evaluation. Depending on what such an evaluation shows, I will take a position on the need for stronger legislation. In addition to criminal law, it is important that great efforts are made to prevent the crimes from being committed at all. The main tool in this context is strong crime prevention. As I have already pointed out, it is a high priority for the government to prevent and combat violence and other abuses against women and children. The Government has set itself the goal of reducing the proportion of people in the population exposed to violence in close relationships. The long-term goal is to bring violence to an end. To achieve this goal, the Government attaches great importance to developing work to prevent crime and support crime victims. Since accession in 2014, the Government has decided on a number of measures. These include a substantial increase in resources for women's shelters, agency missions on victim support measures and a task for an investigator to review the regulatory framework for electronic monitoring of contact bans. It is the government's hope that this work will contribute to improved results in terms of, for example, meeting victims' rights and their need for support and protection.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-75	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, for your answer! The Liberals have for a long time, even when we were called the People's Party, actively pushed in the Committee on Justice to draw attention to violence against women, to review the regulations for parole and electronic anklet and how to strengthen the protection of women who are exposed to threats and violence in close relationships. I share the Minister's view that it is a major social problem that requires us to act now. Unfortunately, in the spring we once again faced a tragic case. Lotta, 41 years old, was murdered by her former common-law spouse. Now the government cannot go into individual cases, but we see in statistics from the Crime Prevention Council that every year, on average, 13 women are murdered by their common-law spouse or former husband. It's a failure. That is why I am also disappointed when the government does not give concrete answers, whether it is the minimum penalty for gross female poverty, which we want to increase from nine months to at least one year in prison, or the assessment of the legislation that we carried out in the Alliance on 1 July 2013. The Government will come back to the evaluation and say that the criminal justice reforms will be evaluated after a while. It's been over three years now. I'd like to know a little more about how things are going. This is important. There is also an announcement, i.e. an invitation from the Riksdag to the Government, to carry out this evaluation. I think it is appropriate to make a clear statement. This also applies to the regulatory framework for electronic monitoring, i.e. how to prevent an ex-husband or ex-sambo from infringing a restraining order. The regulatory framework for electronic anklet sets very high standards today. According to the figures I have seen, last year only two people were sentenced to an electronic anklet. There, too, we made an announcement to the government in March 2015. It is positive in that after a year a directive was returned to an investigator, but we do not have a supplement on rehabilitation programmes in connection with parole. Many of the perpetrators – rapists and other criminals – are released on parole without any requirement to participate in various types of programs. We believe that there is scope to tighten up the legislation so that one can force a person who has committed very serious sexual offences to participate in various rehabilitation programmes. If the person does not accept it, we believe that it should have consequences for leave and parole.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-80	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I appreciate Roger Haddad's commitment to this issue, but you cannot show commitment only when you are in opposition; you must also do so in a government position. In my opinion, there is quite a lot to be desired in dealing with these issues by the previous bourgeois government. I'll get back to you in a minute. It was we Social Democrats who introduced the crime of gross women's freedom once. It was in the late 1990s. Laila Freivalds was Minister of Justice, and I myself worked on criminal policy in the Prime Minister's Committee at the time. I remember it very well. This was only part of a great effort to raise the whole issue. We produced new legislation and specific action plans. We set aside money. The whole basic aim was exactly the same as we are expressing today, namely that we must put an end to men's violence against women. That is the whole aim of the work. The work is long-term and contains many different parts. It's about preventing the crimes. It's about prosecuting the perpetrators. It is also a question of supporting victims. That job was done in the late 1990s and early 2000s, and we continued to work on it during our reign. During the eight bourgeois years, little happened. You did only one thing, namely to increase the minimum penalty from six to nine months. You can say a lot about that. Of course, we will evaluate that intensification of the law. It was created on 1 July 2013. However, we must first have a basis that is large enough for an evaluation to make sense. I think that we are going a little away if we think that the most effective way of eliminating men's violence against women is to add another month or two to the scale of penalties in the case of serious women's poverty. There are other measures to be taken which, in my opinion, are much more effective. It is precisely these measures that we are doing right now. In these areas, the bourgeois government did nothing in practice. One such measure is support for victims of crime. We are now greatly increasing support for women's shelters. We spent SEK 25 million in 2015, and we spend another SEK 100 million this year on women's shelters. They are often the ones who take care of and protect women who have been victims of crime. There will be 100 million annually in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. We are strengthening the crime victims' shelters with an additional SEK 8 million this year alone. It is only the total allocation; then there is another part concerning the Victims Fund, where we have rebalanced the fund's funds so that more money can be given for this non-profit support. These non-profit organisations, women's shelters and crime victims' shelters have an incredibly important task so that people can stand the distance – to cope with a trial and everything associated with it. They also offer support so that, for example, you can get out of a destructive marriage or another relationship. These organisations now have more resources to move around in their work than they have ever had before. My question to Roger Haddad is: if you think this is as important as I think it is, why did you not act during your time in the government?
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-90	Mr President, I would like to The Government of Morgan Johansson is extremely ill-read. I would like to remind you of the Minister for Integration and Gender Equality Nyamko Sabuni, the People's Party, and the Minister for Gender Equality Maria Arnholm, who started work with the Equality Agency, which you presented yesterday as your own initiative. Of course it is good with equality authorities and the crime prevention work, but do not come and say that we did nothing! I sat on the Board of the National Police for four years last term of office and followed Nyamko Sabunis and Maria Arnholm's committed work against men's violence against women and against honour-related violence. There are many billions of dollars in the decisions made by the alliance governments over the last eight years. It has been about improving the activities of the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the police and about supporting women's shelters and crime victims' shelters. Don't tell me those ministers didn't do anything, because that's not true! Yes, we tightened the penalties in 2013. But we now think, three years after, that it was not enough. That is why we are now calling for an evaluation. It's not something we do after two months, but after three years. We note that for the past five years, the Crime Prevention Council has shown 13 418 reported cases of gross female poverty with 1,027 convicted men. There are 1,027 convicted men in the last five years among 13,418 cases. That is some kind of indication, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the regulatory framework and legislation are not sufficient. Then there is the second part. I saw in the bill list a bill that might touch this, namely the one announced in December, dealing with serious violent crimes, illegal threats, assaults and so on. This investigation was also commissioned by the Alliance Government in 2013. It presented its report and proposals in 2014. That's what the government is now working on and watching. Also Carin Götblad, who is currently Regional Manager of Police Region Mitt – it is among other things Uppsala and Västmanland – looked at these issues very deeply and seriously. She did a very fine job with a focus on crime prevention. This is a point that I particularly take up in her recommendations or warnings. It is the risk that individuals, especially women, who are victims of crime, victims of violence, victims of rape and victims of abuse, may fall between the seats. That is what we have seen individual examples of over the past six months and the year. It happens between the police and the prosecutor or in other parts of the legal chain. That is why it still involves situations in which exsambors and ex-marriages can continue to threaten, harass and eventually even abuse their ex-partners so seriously that they die. There's a flaw in the chain of justice. That is why, in a very attentive case, we are also calling for an accident commission, but not precisely for the specific case, which I, Mr President, am writing in my interpellation. Such a review should look at all these cases. Has the state, society and the justice chain done anything wrong that has led to these tragic events that could have been prevented? It does not help just to talk about support for women's shelters and victim support centres. I think it is positive, but the regulatory framework is not good enough. Not least, I still want answers to: Will there be an evaluation? And how does the Minister feel about minimum punishment for women's defamation?
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-98	Mr President, I would like to My criticism is this: during your reign you did set up investigations, but that does not help. You have to do something in real life, too. One of the major mistakes you made over the eight years was that you never developed support for victims of crime, for women's shelters and for victims' shelters in the way we are doing now. It is when there are people in place who can help the victim and when there are accommodations that can provide protection for the victim of crime that you get some real results. Then Roger Haddad says that there were ministers who set up investigations into the gender equality authority. Of course, of course. We will now implement it and all those proposals. We launched that yesterday, as Roger Haddad knows. We will. But it does not help if you are not also prepared to set aside resources for it. In fact, I Googled the Liberals' budget motion last year to see if you are saying anything about victims and women's shelters. The only time you mention the word "victim" in that motion is when you mention the Victims' Agency. Otherwise, it's nothing. You do not mention women's helpers at all in your budget exercise. That shows, in my view, the priority you are prepared to give to these issues when it comes to making real progress with money. As I said, there was SEK 25 million more for the women's shelters last year. There are SEK 100 million more starting this year. There is another SEK 8 million more for victims' helpers this year. This means that these activities, which are so important for coping with the crimes, have more resources than ever to move around with. It's about victim support. Then we review the rules for monitoring with an electronic anklet. These are the rules that were introduced in the last period, yes. But it took a very long time to get it in place, for technical reasons, I understand. That was the explanation of the previous government. Now it's in place. It is, I think, used too little. That is why we have added the review requested by Roger Haddad. I am getting a result of that review in January. Then we'll move on. The government's focus is clear. We want to see an increased use of electronic anklet in terms of monitoring – in this case we are talking about men who are persecuting their former women. We want that direction. When I get the basis in January, we will move on with it. Another issue which concerns this area and which we are also on the way forward concerns the major review of sexual crimes, which we actually pushed through in opposition during the last period. We received an announcement from the Riksdag to set up a new investigation to review the entire sex crime legislation. Such an investigation was then set up. I'll see you in a couple of weeks. It contains, as I understand it, a tightening up of legislation on the view of sex offences in some respects. But it will also contain other things. It has been part of their mission to review the support given to the victim. It is a question of legal aid from the outset. It is also an important issue that we from the Socialist side have been pushing for a very long time. The reform of sex crime legislation and better support for those who are victims of these crimes will be one of the major issues for the rest of our term of office. Finally, I would like to add what we presented yesterday. In addition to talking about criminal law and supporting victims, it is also a matter of putting a great deal of emphasis on preventing this type of crime. There, all the measures referred to by Mr Roger, including rehabilitation measures, can come in. There we are prepared to move forward with a total of SEK 900 million from 2017 to 2020.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-105	Mr President, I would like to Government! It is clear that we set aside money for action plans against honour-related violence and violence against women. There's a government decision on that. I believe that at least a few billion in total were spent on strengthening these action plans from the time of Nyamko Sabunis to the time of Maria Arnholm in cooperation with Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask – I saw that she entered the Chamber now. But action other than crime prevention and prevention is needed. Looks like we've got a lot of exercise going on. But it doesn't always have to be about money. These could be legal changes. We are the ones who have made the announcement about, for example, the evaluation of the 2013 law on gross women's freedom. It is we who have made the announcement to the government about the electronic anklet. It is we who have set up the investigations that you are now going to try to proceed with in the form of proposals to Parliament. Had we not taken those initiatives in 2013 and 2014 we had had to wait for another three years. I now see that the Government's response seeks to demonstrate its capacity for action. But I can look at the timeline ahead. Early 2018, maybe a few months before the election or even after the election, we can get some decisions in place. It does not help the women who are subjected to abuse and so on. That is why I mention the inquiry that is due in December. Is it possible to speed up any action and include it already in the bill that comes in December on assault? I do not think the government is giving a clear answer. The government does say that it will be evaluated. At the same time, however, it is being rallied over this. I want to know. When will the evaluation of the 2013 Act come? This is very important in addition to crime prevention.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-109	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that we have any differences in substance but that we are moving in the same direction. The problem is: When the Liberals are in government, they often find it very difficult to deliver. Then I am not talking about delivering investigations, but I am talking about delivering results. The only thing I could see that you had really done during these eight years was, as I said, that little punitive effort from six months to nine months, as you did on 1 July 2013. I would point out that it is much more important and much more effective to go forward with large-scale efforts on victim support. That's exactly what we're doing. It is not that we are waiting and that things are going to happen in years. We allocated increased resources to last year, 2015. There was 25 million more for the women's shelters. We set aside more money this year, another 100 million. We are devoting increased resources to victims' emergency services as early as this year. Here they really feel that something is happening. This is where it's going to be business. In what will then be a new focus on prevention, and what Roger Haddad talked about, such as rehabilitation, can be part of it. There we have set off a space of 900 million SEK from 2017 onwards, which is also much more than the previous government was able to do. Criminal policy needs to be looked at widely. One cannot only look at one part, but one must look at the prevention, prosecution, victim support and, of course, the prison service. One problem with the previous government was that it was very locked to either the number of police officers or how high the penalties were, and you didn't work with the other parts. This government looks at the whole spectrum and the whole perspective, and I therefore believe that our work will prove to be much more effective than yours.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-113	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to reverse the negative trend in the performance of the police as a matter of urgency. She has also asked me how I and the government intend to act to ensure that the Police Authority meets the demands of the police reform for a more present police officer who investigates and clears up more crimes. Finally, Beatrice Ask wonders when I and the government intend to ensure that the Police Authority receives the resources needed to carry out its mission. There is no single, unambiguous explanation as to what the deterioration in the outcome of the criminal investigation is due. It probably has its basis in several collaborative factors, linked both to the Police Authority and to changes in the outside world. The reorganisation of the police has put a great deal of strain on the operation. It can therefore be expected that the results will deteriorate during a transitional period. There are also signs that crime in its nature has become increasingly complex and time-consuming to investigate. In order to increase knowledge in this area, the Government has given the Crime Prevention Council two different tasks to analyse external factors that may have affected the development of results in the criminal investigation activities. The assignments shall be presented by 15 October 2016 and 1 March 2017. It is very important that the negative performance is broken. The investigation and prosecution work must deliver a result that maintains confidence in the business. Investigating crime is one of the police's core tasks and must be a priority. The primary objective of the reform of the police was and is to strengthen the police's ability to fight crime. The Ministry of Justice is conducting a close dialogue with the police leadership on these issues. The Police Authority works, among other things, to increase resources for investigative activities, develop working methods and improve technical support. It is also important that the Authority is prepared to make adjustments in the organisation if necessary. In order to give the Police Authority the opportunity to increase its human resources, the government in the budget bill will propose that funds be added to the agency in the coming years. The Government is following the Authority's resource needs and will return to the matter if necessary.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-117	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. The background to the questions I have asked is, of course, the poor outcome that we see in terms of the resolution of crime. New figures show it hasn't been this bad in 16 years. In particular, it applies to certain categories of crime, where you get very worried. In the case of assault, for example, it has declined from 18.3 percent to 12.6 percent. For vandalism, we see a halving of the crime settlement. This list can be made very long. The worrying thing is that behind these figures there are victims, people who have been subjected to serious crimes and who reasonably expect society to ensure that this is cleared up and that justice is done. It is also important that their trust in the rule of law is not damaged. Moreover, behind the figures are perpetrators who, when nothing is cleared up, get the signal that they can commit crimes anyway, because nothing is happening anyway. It is a development in which crime is released, and it is not something that we want. The Home Secretary says in his reply that there are complex causes and that several assignments have now been given to the Crime Prevention Council to analyse the causes. I think it is very good, but we cannot wait for the results of such intellectual analyses for months, but something has to happen. There are also some simple reasons why the crime resolution is bad. For example, the police are late for crime scenes. The police are not doing adequate crime scene investigations. One is careless with basic and well-anchored methods that exist. The police are asking witnesses to look for the perpetrators themselves, because the lattice don't get away. The police even ignore meetings they get when they connect our DNA records with other countries. The list can be made long over nonsense or shortcomings in the operation of the police. This does not need to be analysed; it just needs to change. Basic procedures should be used and functioning, and it is the responsibility of the police and the Home Secretary to ensure that this happens. I expect concrete information from Minister Anders Ygeman about what measures the government intends to take to ensure that DNA records are kept fresh, that the police act when things happen, that you go out when crimes are reported and that you actually control things fairly quickly and not just blame everything else. Then we will eventually have an in-depth analysis that can show structural problems, and that is a good thing. But we need to act here and now! I don't want to see next year that we have the worst situation in 17 years. Previously, Morgan Johansson stood here in the speaker's chair and said that everything was wrong under the previous government. I could spend quite a long time quoting how he spread over how quickly you would change the resolution of crime and how incredibly amazing it would be if he were to decide. I haven't seen any of this. The results are sinking like a rock. We agree that this is not good. I expect, and believe that everyone expects, measures to ensure that more crimes are cleared up and that they are reasonably fast.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-125	Mr President, I would like to I share Beatrice Ask's concern about developments. But I also think I have to disappoint Beatrice Ask on one point. I believe that when we look at what Beatrice Ask calls next year's statistics, that is, the statistics relating to this year, we will not see at an aggregate level any reversal of crime trends. This is because the main explanation that the esults are continuing to decline – and they have fallen over a long period of years – is that the reorganisation, the largest in modern times, has taken place at the same time as a serious external factor: the largest asylum reception since the Second World War, the first border control in 20 years and an increased threat of terror. It is clear that I believe that this development will unfortunately follow with us for this year as well. I also believe that Beatrice Ask is quite right when she does not stare blindly at the aggregate figure but goes down on different types of crime. It is only where we can make a reasonable analysis of explanations and also a good analysis of what action we are going to take. If you look at the damage crime, the reduction is due to a very high degree to the notification inflow and that we have bulk notifications, piles with very many reports with very difficult investigation. There we must work together with those who make these notifications in order for them to simply be able to make a possible investigation result. We are not there today. Looking at other categories of crime, such as rape, is simply the police's methodological support and the police's organisation of that work is too bad. This has also been pointed out by the National Police Board at the time. For example, murders are investigated in groups, while rape is almost always investigated individually. Evidence is too bad, and in many places in the country it is too bad to deal with the victim. There is therefore a great potential to improve the work of the police on their own measures, and I hope that we will be able to show that there are a number of categories of crime that are changing. When it comes to the aggregate level, we are more dependent on external factors, and therefore it is more difficult to make such a forecast. I also share Beatrice Ask's view that action is needed. We and the Moderates agree that more resources need to be added to the police, but that does not help as long as you do not use the resources you have and the additional resources in the best possible and most effective way. I share Beatrice Ask's view that there is a significant potential for improvement in the use of police resources. This is also the background to the fact that all parties in the Swedish Parliament agreed to implement the largest reorganisation of the police ever. It is a reform that has so far not delivered good enough results. We have the right to demand more from the police. This applies, for example, to the presence of the police in the most socially vulnerable areas. In some areas it has turned around. In Botkyrka there are more than twice as many police officers today as when the reform came in. But in too many areas there has been no apparent difference. The reform has the year out to show the difference. But we must also be prepared to look humbly at what went well with the reform and what went badly and be prepared to screw it up so that it meets the objective of more policemen closer to the citizens, a safer society and less crime.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-133	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't going to discuss the economy right now. We can do that another time. I'd like to discuss the bad crime settlement. The Home Secretary says he doesn't think we're going to see a turnaround in crime. No, it'll live its own life. But it should be possible to increase clearance, at least for certain categories of crime. There's got to be a turn here and now. In the past, we could see that the quality of criminal investigations varies greatly across the country and also in individual police districts. Best practice would of course lift the results all the way. Home invasions are a good example of that. In some places you manage to clear up many housing breaches while elsewhere you don't even get an alarm. The Minister for Home Affairs relies on the Politice's own actions. It is obvious that this is not enough. Policy initiatives are needed. Government directives are needed on what to do, because otherwise there is a great risk that it will not be done. An example in ancient times was when we appointed the cold case group and pushed us to look at older crimes. A special group was arranged to review old cases. In addition to being able to clear up a number of crimes, they also provided guidelines on how to work with murder investigations in a good way. It's the same thing here. Add someone who looks at how best to clear up more crimes. We can't have a situation where the results are falling when it comes to assault, burglary and so on, but we have to work methodically. I refuse to accept that we should wait for an analysis and that it will be even worse next year. People will lose faith in the justice system. While I have the floor, I will take this opportunity to make one point, and that is that the Swedish National Audit Office has criticised the police. In their annual report, the police covered up the bad results and explained the story so mildly that the Swedish National Audit Office said it was unnyanced. The police blamed the change in statistics, etc. An important message from the Minister visvi Police Authority is: Tell the truth! Tell me how bad it is, and tell me what to do! At the moment you don't dare to see the problems but talk about reorganization, analyses and more nothing happens. The police who go to crime scenes sit with investigations to sort out what may have happened, listen to witnesses and try to put the puzzle must feel that there is someone who thinks it is worth the effort. If you keep referring to something abstract far away and to the fact that it will probably get worse next year because you are refurbishing, even more people will lose their appetite. I want our police officers who are out there working and doing these investigations to feel that we in Parliament and the government are convinced that everyone is doing their very best, and we appreciate that little extra, when doing what needs to be done in order for crimes to be cleared up. We are doing this because we want to ensure that victims get their redress by clearing up crimes and doing justice.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-145	Mr President, I would like to As far as the latter is concerned, I would really like to underline what Beatrice Ask says. Despite the decline, at an aggregate level, we have clearance very many good police officers who do a good job. After all, we focus on the problems that the Police Authority has, there is a risk that we will obscure the many good work efforts that police officers do. We must help to highlight them in the debate so that they can serve as a model for the police operation as a whole. The vast majority of police officers are hardworking women and men who are passionate about their work and want to solve crimes. They are often frustrated that they do not succeed as well as they wish. It is true that there are great variations between different regions and also between police areas. Uppsala, for example, is three times better at clearing up housing breaches than the worst region. The review carried out by Dagens Nyheter and other media shows that the follow-up in Swedish police is too poor and that the ability to compare efforts in different parts of the country is too poor. It is reasonable for us to be able to follow it down in local police areas from a security investigation perspective, i.e. how safe people are. It is also reasonable for us to be able to monitor the police's work and crime resolution down in the local police area in order to compare the figures for actual security and perceived security with the police's investigation results. However, it is important that we do so in such a way that we do not believe that it is the figures that are the most important but the real security. One of the points of the new reform is that we should be able to do better crime coordination and be able to fight better against theft gangs and other crime that is moving across the various police areas. Then it is important that we do not have a report of results that puts those who actually tackle the problem at a disadvantage and do the important coordination. Over a year ago, the Government gave the Police Authority a mandate to return with proposals for improved governance and follow-up of results. As I said, there is considerable potential for improvement here. Nor do I close the door to return with political initiatives in various parts in order to improve both investigative findings and police presence. But basically, the police have to take responsibility for their own results. Police should be able to be police officers, and we must be able to trust that the profession makes professional judgements. If they are given a significant responsibility, we must also be able to demand responsibility if the result is not to be expected.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-154	Mr President, I would like to A DN article shall not be required to reveal that the figures presented in an annual report are unrefined. It was a bit tragic, but we can leave that behind. I am interested in what measures the Government is prepared to take to ensure that we have a better resolution of crime and that we do not have unreounded accounts of the situation and the result. It is also important to state that if you want to encourage police action – and I want – follow-up must be done. It must also be made visible when making good efforts. That's the whole point of the New York model and the work with Compstat. I do not think that you can copy an American model and introduce it in Sweden directly, but they have a point in that you highlight the results when you in everyday work reveal what is a problem but also constantly highlight good efforts. It also calls responsible managers to account and calls for efforts, results and a methodology that will lead the development forward. The security of people is central. In Sweden, most people feel quite safe, because we have a segregation that makes it in concentrated areas that people are subjected to crime most all the time. Many crimes are committed in concentrated places, and this makes general statistics sometimes misleading. There are people who are badly exposed. I think it is necessary to see every report and every crime and to ensure that the police take the necessary initiatives to clear up crimes. At present there seems to be far too little initiative, creativity, curiosity and the ability to achieve results.
i-f8638303d5efc6e9-160	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask calls for concrete proposals for action, and I will mention a few. There will be more from both the police and the political side. Some are things that I think we will agree on, and others are things that we may have more different opinions about. More resources are needed. Although it is not the whole truth, external pressures make it necessary to provide more resources to the Police Authority. That information came in the budget, and I have presented it together with the Minister for Finance. Better administrative support is needed for police officers, both in the IT section and in person. The police are now hiring 600 new civilian employees, a lot of them on the investigation side – specialist investigators – and a part of the administrative support function. Where reforms have not delivered, we need to screw them in. These could include square organisation schemes and the need for national departments in the form of HR, legal support and such things to have a different outcome in regional work – simply a greater local and regional influence over such support functions. We need to streamline police operations. We need to remove fisheries issues so that Coast Guards themselves can investigate them at the bottom. We need to remove animal issues; police should not have to auction sheep when they should be in the suburbs and prevent crime. We are going to remove a lot of hand-holds and transportation, which today destroys many shifts for police officers. They need to travel long distances, which sometimes feels very little meaningful. We will enable the authorities that need assistance to request it directly from the Prison Service's transport service instead of having to detour the police.
