i-6cd0216fb6947973-2	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report on the strengthening of measures to combat the abuse of fixed-term employment. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. The Swedish model is a model in which the social partners through consensus solutions, negotiations, collective agreements and common regulations together set the limits and determine the rules of the Swedish labour market. The Swedish model will now be further restricted by legislation. This is not due to the fact that, in the preparatory work on the Government's proposal, it has been demonstrated that there is a major abuse – quite the contrary. The regulatory framework seems to be working well, and the social partners have the instruments they need to correct and regulate any shortcomings that may arise. Then why should the law be changed? After all, what is normal in this House is that we are changing laws and regulations to improve and correct obvious errors. The answer to the question is the EU. The picture is quite clear if the report reads the sections Description of the case, The case and its preparation and further the section Background, which deals with the Employment Protection Act, the Fixed-Term Directive and the infringement case, as well as the section on the proposal. There is not a series of abusive employers and not a single reference to abuses in the Swedish labour market. There is not a single example or reference to situations where the Swedish legislation, the Swedish model or the social partners are unable to deal with any maladministration or inaccuracies in the use of fixed-term contracts. Instead, the legislation that the majority in this House will be voting through this afternoon is entirely a concession to the European Union, at the expense of Swedish self-determination and at the expense of the Swedish model. The report gives us a detailed account of the EU's fixed-term directive, in particular the Framework Agreement clause 5, which applies in this case. It all started with TCO notifying Sweden to the European Commission. Sweden is considered to be in breach of the fixed-term directive. In 2010, Sweden received a letter of formal notice from the European Commission for lack of implementation of the fixed-term directive. During the course of the case, Sweden and the previous government have actually exemplaryly defended the Swedish model and Swedish self-determination in the field of labour market. The European Commission has also withdrawn most of the criticism that it initially had against Sweden in terms of application. It is therefore with surprise that I now note that the Alliance and, above all, the Moderates have changed their mind and side on this issue too. In other policy areas, where, in the last month of the year, the reality is caught up in an otherwise naive and neoliberal, fluffy policy, it has fortunately revalued and copied the more responsible Swedish-democratic approach. Why in this case, with the implementation of the fixed-term directive in Sweden, has suddenly changed foot is more unclear. It probably has to do with a generally evasive and submissive attitude towards the European Commission and the European institutions. Well, two days after the Prime Minister solemnly declared that the Swedish model should now be fought, the opposite is done. The Prime Minister did speak of the construction of Swedish society when he referred to the Swedish model. It is a building of society that the Social Democrats have forgotten and forsook for decades, but which now under the bill will again be the guiding principle for the government's work. I guess that's still to be seen. It is a question of filling all the fair words with real content and proper action, which has not been the strong side of the government so far. For example, the Prime Minister also mentioned that the state should not go in and lower wages but that wages should be set by the social partners, in accordance with the Swedish model. He is right, of course. However, the Prime Minister apparently sees no problem whatsoever in the EU's infringing and limiting the parties' ability to conclude agreements and to jointly lay down regulations on the Swedish labour market. The labour market is, and should be, an area which, on the one hand, we in this House are to decide whether or not to be regulated by the social partners. Unfortunately, this view is no longer shared by either the Alliance or the government, with the Social Democrats at the forefront. It is true that the new legislation, which is now being proposed, allows the social partners to deviate from the transformation rule through collective agreements. But the collective agreement should be the norm. That should be borderline and self-evident. It's not supposed to be an exception. It is not the European Commission that should restrict the labour market in Sweden. The European Commission's intrusion into Swedish self-determination is regrettable. Mr President, I would like to It is likely that the new regulatory framework will have little practical impact on the Swedish labour market. To be honest, the actual result will be rather limited. However, I see that the possible impact it will have is largely only of a negative nature. Part of the labour market depends on fixed-term contracts in order to maintain a high level of efficiency and to manage staffing during temporary regular gatherings with the help of substitute workers. I myself have been active in such an industry, the retail sector. My last employer, where I worked before entering the government policy, had about four times as much turnover in the period October to December as in the period January to March. During the period April to June July, turnover was three times higher than in August and September. Under such circumstances, the current working time legislation makes it impossible to plan permanent staff only when you are able to set a schedule. That's impossible. At my previous workplace we had workers who returned year after year for temporary employment during the high season. In between, for example, they worked in the Jämtland tourism industry between January and March, which then had its peak season. They were good, appreciated, and loyal associates. And believe me, if it had been possible, I would have offered them permanent employment. When vacancies arose, they also received permanent employment contracts. When you restrict the possibilities of fixed-term employment, you take risks in principle. Now I am not talking specifically about retail. There I think I know that there is an agreement between the parties. There will certainly be an agreement between the parties even after this change of law. The risk is that the company will instead choose to take in new and inexperienced labour, because otherwise the risk is that a fixed-term employment contract will be transferred to permanent employment. Or you risk not filling the hatch at all because you can't find the person who's going to take the place. In the first case, the company loses by not being able to employ the best, most suitable and knowledgeable for the job. And the former employee simply loses a chance at a job. In the second case, when you do not fill the gap, we all lose, Sweden, in fewer hours worked and less tax revenue.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-23	Mr President, I would like to The starting point for today's debate is the Government's proposal Strengthened measures against abuse of fixed-term employment. It is a bill that makes quite moderate changes in the employer's ability to stack fixed-term contracts on each other and thus have employees in precarious forms of employment for a long time. The starting point of the proposal is, of course, that the Swedish rules for protection against insecure forms of employment have been so weak, seen from the employee's perspective, that even the European Commission has considered it problematic. And then you know in these contexts that it's bad. Yet the previous government put this issue in the long line. While many other situations were very responsive to the EU system, they did not really want to deal with these proposals on basic labour law. Now this government is dealing with the issue, and that is a good thing. I will be coming back to the content of the bill shortly. These are, as I said, quite moderate changes. First of all, I note the remarkable fact that it is a party that rejects even this modest improvement in workers' rights. That party is the Swedish Democrats. There are two driving forces that unite in the position of the Swedish Democrats, I would say. First of all, we have seen that the Swedish Democrats' desire to approach the previous government parties for the sake of power has been so great that virtually every political issue can be dealt with very loosely and casually and subordinate to the game that SD is now playing. The Swedish democrats had intended to make a mess of things for the government most of all in this case. Now the former government parties in the bourgeois opposition chose not to follow up on the motion requests they had, so it is apparently not so. Secondly, it is only to be noted that there is more than just gambling on labour law and trade union issues on the part of the Swedish democrats. The impulse is embedded in the political DNA of the Swedish Democrats. The hostility to workers' rights and trade union positions is there. This is usually the case with parties that come from the tradition that SD represents. All in all, it lands in the fact that the Swedish Democrats are building up arguments of the kind that improving the situation for certain vulnerable workers will make recruitment and employment difficult. In this way, the Swedish Democrats stand on the far right. It does not surprise me, but perhaps it surprises some who have heard the Party's rhetoric about the supposed few times in the first place, they have heard leading Swedish democrats say something about anything other than actual or fantasized immigration. I'm going to the bill itself. Today, it is possible for an employer to refrain from hiring for the time being by stacking different forms of fixed-term employment on one another and thus avoiding the restriction rule that exists. This is happening despite the fact that permanent employment should be the norm. The bill proposes a conversion rule that would make stacking more difficult. We in the Left Party welcome the presentation of a proposal in this area, but at the same time, like several trade union consultation bodies, we feel that the proposal could and should have been sharper and simpler. The best would have been a maximum of two years over a five-year period, regardless of the form of employment, as a limit on when fixed-term contracts would have to move into permanent contracts. For example, TCO, which was the organisation that initially took the problem of stacking fixed time to the EU, believes that an employer who trixes a little bit can still have someone with him for six years without hiring the person, even with the proposal of the bill. We find this problematic, because the idea of the law is that we should be able to access that kind of unnecessary or unserious stacking of certainides. A particular problem in this respect is the situation of those working in the state, where employment under the special employment regulation can be combined with employment under LAS in what could be endless chains of precarious employment. This is a problem, and it can't be supposed to work that way. It could have been resolved if it had been clear that the limitation rule would apply at two years regardless of the form of employment. Now, as far as I can see, we have chosen to make what appears to be the least possible changes in order to meet the minimum requirements of the fixed-term directive. It's a bit of a shame, we think in the Left Party. We have therefore re-emphasised the proposal for a general restriction rule. I note that our reservation on this point would also be approved by several Socialist motions on the abuse of fixed-term employment. Mr President, I would like to Insecure employment is generally a major problem for many people on the Swedish labour market. If you have no permanent employment, the possibility of planning your life is reduced. It increases stress and reduces individual freedom. Fixed-term workers may also find it more difficult to qualify for different insurance schemes. There will be a higher threshold to engage in trade unionism. It also often affects the possibility of further training and wage developments. It is clear that fixed-term contracts follow some common hierarchies in society at large. Temporary employment in LO groups is more common than in civil servants and academics. It is more common among women than among men. Insecure employment is more common in sectors such as hotels and restaurants, shops, cleaning and home care, i.e. areas where it is tough and where pay and status are below average. Yesterday, it was well, a report from the Federation of Trade Workers showed that the temporary employment of retail workers increased from 12 to 28 per cent between 1990 and 2015. It is also the case that precarious employment often goes hand in hand with involuntary part-time work, especially in women-dominated professions, both in the public and private sectors. The proportion of temporary employment is fluctuating, but an important trend is that precarious employment has deepened, that is to say, become more insecure. For example, the substitute has been in decline while we have had an increase in hourly and SMS employment. What makes it possible, in particular, to have this type of most precarious employment is the form of employment on a fixed-term basis. This is a core issue that we cannot get around when we discuss certain times. That's a problem. Last year, more than half of all fixed-term health and social care employees were employed on a fixed-term basis. They were employed for hours and as runaways. The report from Trade, which I mentioned, states that the vast majority of those with fixed-term contracts– I think it is around 80%– have hourly and needs positions. This points to what I think should be a matter of course for a Social Democratic-led government, that the general fixed-term should disappear as a form of employment. Of course, in a dynamic labour market, the flexibility offered by fixed-term contracts is needed. It is therefore important that there are possibilities for temporary employment, probationary contracts and other types of fixed-term employment that the parties can also regulate further in collective agreements. But general fixed-term employment is a one-sided gift to the employer side. That is the imbalance with which we have problems and which the government should be interested in rectifying. The general fixed-term institutionalises the opposite of what should be the point of labour law regulation, namely to reduce arbitrariness. If the basic principle that permanent contracts are the norm should mean something, it should be that temporary employment, i.e. non-permanent employment, should be justified in some way. This is the issue of the general time limit for us. On the contrary, the current regulatory framework sanctions arbitrarily and penalises those who have difficulties in the labour market in the first place. I am somewhat disappointed that the government has not acted and is not acting on this issue, which is much more fundamental than the problem of stacking. From the Left side, we continue to run this. Our reservation is on Parliament's table. General fixed-term contracts should be removed. The arguments sometimes put forward that the parties must take care of this and that it is the Swedish model that falls flat. Rather, the general fixed-term is what gives the employer side far-reaching freedoms to undermine the general rule of permanent employment. Removing the general time limit safeguards the general rule. It is therefore to safeguard the Swedish model more generally. This must be done by updating the regulatory framework on the basis of what is actually happening in reality. We believe that the Left Party should have objective criteria for temporary employment. We also believe that the law in this part should continue to be disproved, i.e. that the parties to central collective agreements should be able to agree on the appropriate forms of employment in each sector. The difference with today is that a union like Trade should not have to sell a lot of legitimate pay space to acquire the obvious right to see its members protected from arbitrariness and financial stress. On the other hand, there will be plenty of room with our proposal to agree on solutions for this situation. This is something that business organisations are now campaigning against and attacking the union with. Some of you may have seen the commercials. There's someone standing by a ski lift, and it's summer. Then it says: All jobs are needed, but not all the time. The union now wants to destroy this kind of thing. If it is the case that employers do not know that it was possible in the past to sign contracts on, for example, seasonal contracts, it is serious. Knowing and campaigning in this way is possibly even more serious. This is how the draft struggle for the Swedish model looks, as well as with the recurring moves from the right-wing parties about wage formation. That's how it works. My point is that if the government ducks on those issues, it's the other thing that moves the positions forward. Mr President, I would like to Finally, in this report, we are dealing with a few motions on substitute workers and on so-called intermittent employees. I would like to say something very briefly about them. In the case of substitute workers, we want the regulation to be clarified so that it is clear that the substitute is replacing another person. It should not be the case that substitutes can be used on vague grounds to cover structural understaffing. When it comes to so-called intermittent employees, such as hourly employees, we mean that society should have better control. We therefore want to see a study to analyse the economic and social impact of such employment. I would like to call for the approval of both left-wing reservations Nos 2 and 3.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-48	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is that the social partners agree, Ali Esbati. We make laws for the framework here in Parliament. But the social partners together and jointly in collective agreements and other agreements determine the regulatory framework in the Swedish labour market. They also maintain the regulatory framework through negotiations and the mechanisms they have created to ensure, for example, that abuses do not occur. There is nothing to contradict this with regard to fixed-term contracts. There too, there are now opportunities for the parties to conclude agreements and to maintain the acquis jointly. What we are debating today is legislation that is fully and fully dependent on the European Commission. There I am a little surprised by the Left Party. The European Commission believes that Sweden should fully implement the fixed-term directive, nothing else. What Ali Esbati is asking for can already be maintained. It's a little symptomatic. If I were to ask all parties in this House: are you standing up for the Swedish model? they all say yes. It's obvious. One side runs to the legislator to try to change the regulatory framework. It is not the case that the social partners should govern the regulatory framework, but rather that they want to limit opportunities in different ways. The other silk runs to the legislator because they want to legislate on wages. I'm sorry, but it's not the Swedish model. The Swedish model is what we have now. Already today, the parties have the opportunity to maintain exactly what Ali is asking for. It is entirely, fully, a concession for the European Commission and nothing else.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-52	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, for at least the valiant attempt to describe the Swedish model. I think that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström really answered his own question during the first 10 – 15 seconds of his post and could possibly have ended there. He said that the Swedish model is that the parties agree on the basis of the framework set by the legislator. That was the answer to the question. That is the framework we are now discussing. As far as the general time limit is concerned, it is a framework decided by the House. It gives one-sided privilege to the employer side. We think it is wrong and problematic. I discussed here for a little while why. That is precisely the question. What are the grounds for agreement between the parties? Are there grounds that give carte blanche to the employers' side, or are there grounds that do not give it? We think it is better to have legislation and a framework that provides reasonable conditions for particularly vulnerable groups in the labour market. That we should have come up with the problem because the European Commission has come up with it is an imaginative starting point on the part of Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. It's not like that. We were against the introduction of this right from the start. Like many trade unions, we have noted that this leads to difficulties for groups that are vulnerable in the labour market, and that is what it has done. It is time to try to change this so that we have better and more reasonable conditions for workers in the labour market. The Swedish Democrats find this problematic. They side with employers unilaterally. It's boring to see.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-57	Mr President, I would like to We are on the side of the Swedish model, Ali Esbati. It is not the case that employers have received a carte blanche for general fixed-term contracts. It is still the case that the social partners can, through negotiations, conclude agreements for the Swedish labour market that go exactly in the direction that the bill and the report now do. It's not weird. That is exactly what is the Swedish model, Ali Esbati, that the social partners agree on this. Both parties use their acquaintances in the Riksdag. There is one side that the trade union movement goes to and tries to change the legislation because they are unable to negotiate or do not want to take that negotiation. It is the same on the other side, just as I described, in terms of wage formation. It is not the Swedish model. If you are serious about maintaining the Swedish model, let the parties handle this. Just read the report. There is no provision for anything other than the fixed-term directive in the preparatory work on the proposal and the report. It says only about the fixed-term directive and nothing else. It is a concession for the European Commission. There is no change in the problem that cannot already be resolved by the parties under the Swedish model.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-60	Mr President, I would like to There's possibly a little uphill here. I have to explain again to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. He and I are both standing here on the floor of the Parliament House. It is the Riksdag that makes decisions on labour law laws, and it is they that we are now discussing. It is difficult to understand what Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström means. Does he mean that the Swedish model arose exactly at the moment when the Riksdag decided on just general fixed-term employment as a form of employment in LAS? It is a strange view in that case. There are many different laws that set the framework for what then becomes negotiations on the labour market between the social partners. This is one of them. It has changed, and it can be changed again in different ways. What we want to do is have strong partners who take responsibility for wage formation. There are proposals that fly through the air in the general debate. It is a matter of the state not interfering in wage formation, for example. We believe that employers should also not be given a unilateral right to decide and not have to justify why they violate what is the main rule of Swedish labour law, namely permanent employment. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström obviously thinks it is unproblematic that the employer can do so. We do not think so, and many trade unions do not think so either. That is what the debate today is about. How is that balance to be struck? We believe that a balance that gives employers wide-ranging opportunities to have people employed without employing them firmly despite the need is a poor balance. It is a balance that was introduced by the previous government in the form that it exists today. You should change that.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-67	Mr President, I would like to It is with a certain pride that I stand here today as a Socialist Member of Parliament. Today, we are presenting a bill, Strengthening measures against abuse of fixed-term employment, which for the first time in a very long time strengthens people's security in the labour market. We have seen the opposite in Swedish legislation for a very long time. This particular legislation will reduce the risks to employees of general fixed-term contracts to be exploited. Maybe it's not so revolutionary in itself. It may actually be a piece of legislation that should have come about a long time ago to reduce the greatest risks to the exploitation of those who are most vulnerable in the Swedish labour market. It is legislation that interferes with the level of security in the labour market that Europe demands of us. It is based on a notification against Sweden made by TCO nine years ago that Sweden violated the fixed-term directive with the legislation implemented by the bourgeois government, Better opportunities for temporary employment etc. The Commission opened an infringement case at the time of the notification. Since then, the Commission has sent a letter of formal notice, a reasoned opinion and a further reasoned opinion. Sweden has replied to the letters, but it has not acted with any change in the legislation. It has, if you would say, been a very long bench, and now we want to put an end to it before the Commission chooses to go even further. We have not even been able to live up to the minimum requirements for the security of fixed-term workers on the labour market that the EU has demanded of us, we who have always been known for our Swedish model, which includes security in the labour market. A kind of balance, one can call the Swedish model. It is a balance between workers, on the one hand, and employers, on the other, a balance that has proved to be completely outstanding in order to create security, jobs, a stable labour market and a stable economy in our country over time. The fact that we in Sweden are forced to strengthen our employment security legislation because we have not lived up to the EU's minimum level clearly demonstrates that the labour market policy implemented by the previous government was below the line of shame. But it also shows that times are changing and therefore politics. It shows that we now have a government that has been intending to reverse the trend that has been going on for so long. Mr President, I would like to Our current government wants to strengthen the position of workers in the labour market. We want to protect the Swedish model at all its levels. Today we are taking the first step along that road. A labour market where people are seen as assets and not as a wear and tear product is what characterises a modern labour market. It is a labour market that recognises individuals as valuable. A policy that sees that all people are equal and that they must thus be given the conditions to create their lives is a must to create a good society. Permanent contracts, permanent contracts, must be the norm in the Swedish labour market. It is not decent in a society such as ours to exploit people absurdly in fixed-term employment. All too often I meet people who are not allowed to take out a loan or get a home because of their employment status. It can almost be difficult to get a mobile subscription if you cannot show that you have an income over time. This is not reasonable. It's not modern. This is not how Sweden will face the future. Safe employment relationships and a salary to live on, it's modern. That is how we create a society based on security and trust, and that is when we get a society that people want to be part of building together. Basically, it is a question of human dignity and democracy. While we note this, we can also note that the bourgeois parties no longer share the basic view of the Swedish model. They want legislation on reduced entry wages, preferably for young people and new arrivals, but it will obviously have consequences for the whole labour market and indeed for the entire system of the Swedish model, where the parties are responsible for wage formation. Lower entry wages and precarious forms of employment are out of date. Giving different salaries based on ethnicity or age is discriminatory, and proposals such as these should not even be able to be lifted in Sweden in 2016. I actually thought better about us than that. In a situation where unemployment is falling and the country is doing well, proposals of that kind are quite frightening. It's unworthy, and it's out of fashion. While I am on the subject of the Swedish model, I can also note that the only party in the Swedish parliament voting against the proposals for stricter measures against abuse of fixed-term employment is the Swedish Democrats. It's the only party that thinks it's okay to stack precarious jobs on each other and create precarious lives for people who don't get any stability in their lives. In their reservation they write that they do this to protect the Swedish model. It is just another example of the Swedish Democrats not having the slightest idea of what the Swedish model is. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-80	Mr President, I would like to Then I have also experienced this. In fact, I did not think that during my years here in Parliament I would meet a leading social democrat who does not know what the Swedish model is. The Swedish model is not that we sit here and legislate on regulations, wage levels or anything else. The Swedish model is that we set the framework and then let the social partners handle this. Social partners – not legislators. Just as I described in my shift of line with Ali Esbati, that is exactly what is happening now that you come to the left to the legislators and say that now the trade union movement cannot or they do not want to take this negotiation with the employers' side to manage the regulations, so now we go to the legislators instead. On the other side, we want to put salaries through the legislators, just as Helén Pettersson quite rightly remarked. But she doesn't see the beam in her own eye. She does not understand that what she herself advocates is exactly the same thing, but from the other side. Let the social partners handle this! Please explain to me, Mr Pettersson, what in the current regulatory framework prevents the social partners from achieving exactly the same results as this proposal that you will decide on this afternoon. In what way can we legislators decide on something that the social partners cannot jointly, according to the Swedish model, decide on in agreements? Please explain it to me!
i-6cd0216fb6947973-84	Mr President, I would like to I never thought that would happen. But suddenly it did. A Swedish-democratic Member of Parliament stands and takes priority of interpretation in Parliament's chambers and explains to me what the Swedish model is. It's pretty comical. From Sällström's reasoning, one might think that the Swedish Democrats do not think there is a need for any labour law at all in this country, that it would be better for the parties themselves to conclude all the agreements on all the rules that should apply. That is exactly what Sällström says in this context. I find that remarkable. The framework legislation that we have talked about before is exactly what we are discussing today. There are quite a few who work at workplaces without collective agreements, I can reveal to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. There is also a need for basic legislation that applies to everyone. Whether it is about holiday legislation, fixed-term employment contracts and how it should be regulated, there is a basis for the Swedish labour market in labour law. That's why we have it. Then the parties have the opportunity to sign in collective agreements changes that apply in the workplaces where collective agreements apply. This is the basis of the Swedish model.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-89	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what I am arguing: that the parties already have that possibility today according to the Swedish model. It is not that we have to legislate on regulations or minimum wages in this House. Correct me if I am wrong, but if there are no collective agreements, then trade unions are well able to write collective agreements and claim that they should have the right to write collective agreements on rules, laws, regulations and regulations on borders and frameworks are abused. That battle can be taken with the employer side. Maybe you're wrong. That is precisely the question here: how does this legislation change the Swedish labour market? Not in any way, because everything arising from today's decision can be decided jointly, according to the Swedish model, by the social partners. Everything – 100%. The only thing we are achieving today is that the European Union and the Commission are allowed to change the Swedish labour market and make laws in Sweden. Just read the report! That is exactly why we have today's report, and it is for this reason that you will be voting in favour of the legislative proposal this afternoon. Nothing else. We are thus restricting the Swedish model in favour of the European Commission and the fixed-term directive. All that Helén Pettersson is asking us to do today is to maintain the agreement between the parties on the Swedish labour market.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-93	Mr President, I would like to I feel the need to quote an old Swedish ski hero, but I won't. It is difficult to explain to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström when we have such fundamentally different views about what Swedish legislation is used for in the labour market. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström does not seem to have an insight into how many people work in places where collective agreements do not exist. It is not the way Sällström breathes here that you can only go in and demand a collective agreement. It's a long job and a long fight. Many of the sectors where specific periods and temporary employment are common are also sectors where there is generally a low share of collective agreements. Of course, there is a need for a minimum level of labour law – as in this area too. How will this change the conditions on the Swedish labour market, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström asks? He answers rhetorically to his question: Not at all. But of course it will. We are raising the minimum level for how much people with fixed-term contracts can be used. It is a major step and a clear improvement. It will make a difference even if Sällström is unable to see it in his world. It is also by adopting the law that we are actually preventing Europe from governing and regulating how we should be doing it. That is the consequence if we do not adopt legislation this afternoon. It may also be important for Sällström to reflect on. It would also be good to see the consistency of the Swedish democrats on these issues. I know that, among other things, proposals have been made to increase the exemptions in LAS from today's two to five. There Sällström does not think that the parties need to take any responsibility, but the legislation should go in there. There is no red thread in Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström's argumentation.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-99	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market must be characterised by order and good conditions. I think most of us agree on this in this House. That was something that the Alliance government was very careful about. Until further employment is the foundation of the Swedish labour market and has been so for a very long time. Over the past 25 years, the proportion of temporary workers has remained relatively constant and has been commuting between 12 and 17 per cent. We believe that temporary employment plays an important role in the Swedish labour market. It is also an important bridge into the labour market for groups that may find it difficult to find permanent employment. Sweden belongs to the countries of the EU that have the greatest flow from temporary to permanent employment. For companies, fixed-term employment also plays a very important role in hiring people at temporary peaks or in replacing absent staff. This opportunity is crucial to cope with the competitiveness of Swedish companies. Since 2010, the European Commission has been running an infringement case against Sweden. The Commission has considered that the Employment Protection Act does not provide protection against the abuse of temporary employment in the manner required by EU law. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance Government argued that the rules of the Employment Protection Act met the requirements of EU law. So here we had a dispute with the European Commission. This was due to the fact that for all fixed-term forms of employment in LAS there are either time limits or requirements for certain objective conditions to be met. Overall, we considered that the current regulatory framework provides the protection against abuse required by the fixed-term directive. There are also no known real cases where fixed-term contracts have been stacked according to LAS as the Commission feared. The investigation commissioned by the Alliance Government from SCB also does not show that there is a stacking based on the rules of the Employment Protection Act. However, the Alliance Government took the Commission's criticism seriously and agreed to make changes to the Employment Protection Act, although the government did not share the Commission's view on the lack of protection. Two different ministerial memorandums came from the Alliance Government, but they were not fully supported by the social partners. Therefore, no change was made. The current government proposal involves the involvement of a relatively small group of employees, and the proposal has been broadly accepted by the parties. We think that's a good thing. Given that there may be a risk that Sweden's room for manoeuvre to choose appropriate measures to prevent abuse will be reduced in the event of a conviction by the European Court of Justice, we believe that the proposal can be accepted.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-105	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Swedish labour market needs time limits. About 700,000 people are working on a fixed-term basis. It is one way to cope with peaks of stress in the workplace, to cope with substitute work, season and many unexpected situations that arise in working life where different ways have to change the staffing at shorter notice. For many individuals, a fixed-term contract is the first job. Then you move on to a permanent position. It can also be a good way for the individual to try a new job. Mr President, I would like to We need fixed-term contracts, but we do not need abuse of fixed-term contracts. It is questionable whether there should be fixed-term contracts without justification, which are not based on any objective reason. The old government introduced a general fixed term. My party criticised the shift of power when no objective reason for a fixed-term employment is required. The risk is that certain periods will be used despite the need for permanent employees and that it will be abandoned that permanent employment is the norm in the labour market. Now we have clearly demonstrated here that there is a clear majority in this House for general fixed-term employment. Of course, when the law exists on a general fixed-term basis, that law must be designed in such a way that we also meet the requirements of the European directives. I would like to thank both the social partners and the four previous government parties. Although we have slightly different views on the need for general fixed-term employment, we have been able to agree that if it is to exist, there should be proper rules that stop abuse of employment. That is why there is a proposal on Parliament's table, with a broad majority, to stop the possibility of stacking pieces of wheat on each other indefinitely. This means an improvement for many – above all – women who are at risk of getting caught in long stacks of latids. There are also proposals to extend rights to information about the various services and rights you have had. Just as Helén Pettersson said, this raises the bottom rib. It moves the positions of employees forward. It is not quite honest, Ali Esbati, to say that the government is ducking. We take important steps to improve the position of employees in the labour market. I am pleased that we have done this in broad agreement in Parliament and with the social partners. Mr President, I would like to When I read the report, I wondered whether the Swedish Democrats have even read the bill. The reservation that the Swedish Democrats have left is completely confused. Now I have listened to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström's speech and in line. It was a completely confused speech. Do the Swedish Democrats not know what they are talking about? I can't believe it! It is therefore in favour of there being legislation on general time limits, but it is considered wrong to legislate on how it should be applied. That doesn't make any sense. The Swedish Democrats are obviously in favour of there being a law on the general time limit. They are in favour of regulating the transition to permanent employment of a fixed-term contract of two years over a five-year period. They think that it is right to regulate that. But they are not in favour of regulating whether these two years have been within a period of more than five years but in a form of employment, which we are now taking a position on. They claim this is contrary to the Swedish model. They don't know what they're talking about. It's all confused. Either you want legislation on a general fixed-term basis and what forms of employment should exist, or you do not want it. However, if we have legislation, the legislators must take full responsibility for that legislation. It is also a strange view of the European Union that the Swedish democrats have. The EU means the free movement of capital, goods and services. This benefits Sweden. It benefits Swedish companies and Swedish growth and therefore Swedish jobs. It is a very important foundation, which we in Sweden benefit from. In order to balance freedom of movement so that it does not take place at the expense of employees' conditions, at the expense of the environment or at the expense of consumer rights, there are different regulatory frameworks to ensure that countries do not use dumping among themselves so that some can compete with worse conditions for employees than others. There are directives – for example, a fixed-term directive, which is now up to date. In the vast majority of cases, these directives mean a lower level than the regulatory framework we have in Sweden. That is why this is rarely the case. But in this case, when general fixed-term employment was introduced, it turned out that we went too far in relation to the EU directives. I am strongly in favour of having this kind of minimum rules in European cooperation. Otherwise, the free movement of capital, goods and services will be at the expense of employees. But it is clear that the Swedish Democrats do not see it that way. I would like to congratulate you once again. Although we have fundamentally different views on the need for general fixed-term employment status, we have been able to agree widely in this House and widely among the social partners that we are in a Union, that it is right that we should have this type of minimum rules and that countries should comply with them. It's about decency. It is a question of maintaining and taking responsibility for the legislation on which we have a position in this House. Mr President, I would like to Let me go back to the main issue of fixed time. It is, of course, a delicate task to regulate fixed-term contracts properly. I can understand the need for it to be simple and not too detailed legislation. That is what we wanted to achieve when we introduced a general fixed term as a form of employment. I have respect and understanding for that. At the same time, the risk of transferring power to employers at the expense of employees is such that fixed-term employment will be used even when it is not justified. This is a difficult balance to make. What we are doing now is not solving the whole difficult balance. Nevertheless, we take and clean up, move the positions and make it possible for more people to move their fixed-term employment into permanent employment. I am perhaps not so surprised that the Swedish democrats do not care about the women who today go around year after year on different seasons. But I am surprised that the Swedish Democrats are completely confused about the functioning of the Swedish model.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-123	Mr President, I would like to I note that Ylva Johansson has understood nothing of our criticism. I'm not surprised. If Ylva Johansson had endeavoured to read our reservation and listen to my speech, she would have understood that the majority that will exist this afternoon does not exist because the majority in this House believes that it is necessary to change legislation in order to change the situation in the Swedish labour market. There is a majority precisely because the EU has a fixed-term directive and has told Sweden that we must implement our fixed-term directive fully in Swedish legislation. That's why. It is also the case that the fixed-term directive is not adapted to the Swedish model or to how we are used to managing regulations, negotiations and collective agreements in the Swedish labour market. It's designed to do something completely different. This means that what we will decide on this afternoon will restrict the Swedish model, Ylva Johansson. We are not against regulations in the Swedish labour market. It should of course be decided in this House on the laws and regulations that should apply as a framework for the social partners, but it should be according to Swedish conditions and the needs we see. It should not be in line with EU directives. It is no wonder that we Swedish democrats genuinely dislike the fact that the EU is interfering in the Swedish labour market. We both know that this is the case, even in this case. I say it again: just read the bill and the report. Why are we deciding on this legislation today? It is not to enforce any legislation for Swedish conditions. It is for the full implementation of an EU directive, nothing else.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-128	Mr President, I would like to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström repeats his confused post. I do not know if he has read the fixed-term directive. It is in no way contrary to the Swedish model. There is agreement in this House that we should have the kind of directive at European level that sets minimum levels. We agree on this, even if we do not agree on all the rules that we think should exist in the labour market. I think that's good. I think that is quite right. The social partners share this assessment – they should have such minimum rules, and when they exist they should be followed. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström believes that this only affects the EU. This affects the women who, year after year, go around in temporary employment. But the basic problem for your Swedish democrats is that you do not understand a single thing of the Swedish model. Why do the Swedish Democrats want the Riksdag to legislate on a general fixed term? Why should the parties not agree on fixed-term contracts? Why do the Swedish Democrats want us to legislate for two years of fixed-term employment over a five-year period to be transferred to permanent employment? Why shouldn't the parties agree on that? Why are the Swedish Democrats against the very limit we are now imposing – that two years of employment in the framework of a general fixed term should also be transferred to permanent employment? That's exactly what the Swedish democrats say is in conflict with the Swedish model. This is a way of taking responsibility for one's own legislation. You don't know what the Swedish model is, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-133	Mr President, I would like to It is surprising that a Minister for Labour is making this extremely confused speech. Everything you just listed, Ylva Johansson, is something that the parties can already decide on jointly in agreements within the framework of the Swedish model. Ylva, please! Right? Is that one of the things you listed that the parties cannot agree on today in agreements, in collective agreements? Tell me! As far as the majority conditions are concerned, Katarina Brännström clearly said that the only reason they have turned is the EU, nothing else. That is precisely why the majority position in this House has changed on this issue. We have no problem with establishing regulations or frameworks for the parties in this House. We'd be more than happy to do that. However, we have problems with allowing the EU to further restrict the Swedish model and restrict our opportunities and the opportunities for the parties to operate in the Swedish labour market.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-137	Mr President, I would like to I smile a little, because it was a bit fun to hear Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström use the word confused against me. I thought so. But okay. I listed the legislation that is already regulated today, what the Swedish Democrats apparently support for the law to regulate. You support the fact that there should be a general fixed-term legal framework. You support the fact that it is regulated what rules are in force today for it to be transformed. You reject the fact that this is being adjusted so that more – women, mainly – will be able to have their position transformed into a permanent job. It has nothing to do with the Swedish model. If you do not want labour law, you should stand for it. But that's not what you're doing. You are simply opposed to the fact that we are now moving forward the positions of employees and putting you on the side of employers, and you are, in principle, opposed to setting minimum standards within the European Union, so that we prevent countries from competing with ever worse conditions for employees. It is the Swedish Democrats in a nutshell.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-142	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by asking for the approval of reservation 2. The problem of misuse of Swedish passports has existed for many years now. Already in 2001, Social Democrat Carina Hägg submitted a written question to the then Social Democratic Government on the problem of passports that disappears. There she stated that the then National Police Board had stated that 30 000 passports disappeared. Thomas Bodström's answer to her question is a little fun, seen in relation to what it looks like today. One reason why such a large number of Swedish passports are stolen is assumed to be that they are easy to forge. However, in 1998 Sweden introduced a new passport which is considerably more difficult to forge. This suggests that, in the long term, interest in Swedish passports should be reduced among criminals. We all know what development has been like since then. Bodström concluded his reply by saying, fittingly, that there are currently no plans on the part of the government to take any action regarding lost and/ or stolen passports. There you can talk about being out cycling! The problem, then, is not yet again by any means, but the Social Democratic Government did nothing about it. What did the Alliance government do? Well, it was just as little, to be honest. As you know, the alliance government came to power in 2006. In 2008, the National Police Board told us that more than 45 000 Swedish passports had been lost, as it was called. By 2011, it had risen to 56,000 passports. After five years, then, the alliance government had done nothing about this obvious problem. On September 20, 2012, the Swedish Democrats raised a motion in the Swedish Parliament demanding that immediate action be taken to prevent the misuse of Swedish passports. The motion was dealt with a year and a half later in a report, in which the majority of the committees believed that the motion should be rejected, since the National Police Board is working to produce proposals for measures. In the meantime, I put two written questions to the government, on 3 October 2013 and on 15 October of the same year. I received the same answer from the government as from the committee in the report, that is, that the National Police Board is doing something and soon we will perhaps come up with something, with some luck. The bottom line after eight years of alliance government was that there was no proposal to tighten the rules for passports, although the problem had been known for at least five years before then, if not more. As I have noted, they were in no way better; they themselves did nothing. So there are seven parties in this Parliament that have been very passive for at least 15 years. I know it is popular to refer to investigations here and there or to the National Police Board to do something, but the bottom line after 15 years with different governments is that nothing has happened until now. Then you can beat your chest, as the Moderates did in a debate article the other day. In the light of the inaction of the Moderates, it becomes remarkable. But it is of course good that the Alliance and we were able to agree to tighten the rules further. We have made an announcement to the government that the changes will also apply to foreign passports and travel documents, and the regulations will be reviewed with regard to residence permits. That's a good thing. However, I am not sure that this is all it takes to get to grips with the problems. I believe that in the future we will see continued abuse of passports that should be addressed, but it is always difficult to find the right level of restrictions on passports, so that it will not be impossible for Swedish citizens who, so to speak, have honestly lost their passport or whose passports have passed away. There are different ways to move forward if you want to tighten the control further. It is, of course, about restrictions, but also about making abuse impossible. In our reservation, we want to see mandatory and comprehensive checks against biometric information every time a passport is used. The committee notes in the report that work is under way to introduce biometric checks in Sweden as well. That sounds promising, but it is not clear whether it should include everyone passing through or whether it should be random. I believe that there is a point that everyone crossing Sweden's borders should be checked against biometric information. If this were done, the prospects for Swedish passports being misused would be drastically reduced. In conclusion, this is a case in the future. It has taken unnecessarily long, and many thousands of people have certainly during this time abused Swedish passports and perhaps even entered our country because of them. But this is a step along the way, and we will soon see if we need further tightening up. If so, I sincerely hope that the government then in power is not as passive as we have seen previous governments be at least for the last 15 years.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-155	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for additional cases to reservations 1 and 3. All Swedish citizens have the right to have a passport and always to have it renewed if they have lost it – it applies no matter how many times they have lost it. That is what the current legislation says. Swedish passports are sought after, as Sweden is one of the countries with relatively few countries with visa requirements. Swedish passports on the black market are used by serious organised crime and trafficking in human beings, and they are also a problem in terrorism. The misuse of Swedish passports has been pointed out by, among other things, the Police Authority, Frontex and Swedish foreign authorities. The Liberals, together with the other parties in the then alliance government, gave an investigator in the spring of 2014 the task of considering measures to combat abuse of Swedish passports. The mission was reported in Misuse of Swedish passports, and it is this work that forms the basis for the government proposal and what we are debating today. The proposals put forward in the bill are well in line with what the Liberals have previously advocated. We believe it is important that the legislative changes take effect as soon as possible. However, the question is whether the proposed measures will prove sufficient. In order to prevent passports from being sold on the black market, the Government proposes that Swedish citizens can be granted a maximum of three ordinary passports during a rolling five-year period. While this quantitative limit prevents a person from selling their passports on the black market on a large scale, it does not make it difficult for a person who does so on a smaller scale and for more than five years. Today, few are taking more than three passports over a five-year period. There is a risk that the price of passports will simply be raised. The question is how those who trade and buy passports will behave. There is a risk that criminals will adapt their resale of passports on the black market to stay just below the quantitative limit. That is why we Liberals believe that it should be considered to supplement the proposed provision with an additional barrier rule aimed at a person's actions for a longer period of time, for example if a person allows five passports to disappear over a rolling ten-year period. It may be the responsibility of the government to return to the Riksdag if necessary with additional legislative proposals in accordance with this. It is also important to analyse the outcome of the legislative changes in practice. The interest in combating serious crime does not contradict the sensitivity of the strengthening of passport legislation as they deal with the conditions under which citizens can exercise their constitutionally protected right to freedom of movement. The impact on those who, for various reasons, are at risk of being adversely affected, as well as on business, needs to be monitored. For this reason, an evaluation of the legislative changes should be carried out within a few years. The Liberals welcome the fact that there is a broad parliamentary consensus on stopping the misuse of Swedish passports, which was manifested not least in the form of the Six Party Agreement in December 2015 on counter-terrorism measures. With regard to terrorism, I would also like to remind you of the Liberals' proposals in which we want to supplement current legislation and review and test the possibility of making it easier for the judiciary to withdraw or suspend a passport. This is a proposal that was supported by Parliament earlier this year in an announcement. At the same time as the measures are introduced, it is important to stress that the right of asylum must continue to be safeguarded. It is the criminals, the serious organised crime and those who sell passports – that is, those who make money using our open society – that we want to stop, not people who run for their lives from war and terror.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-166	Mr President, I would like to Christina Örnebjär from the Liberals spoke about the near background to the very proposal we have before us today. The investigation set up by the Ministry of Justice two years ago has resulted in the proposals that we have before us today. Proposals for changes to the passport law are presented in the Government's bill. The three proposals are: 中 that Swedish citizens can be granted a maximum of three ordinary pss over a five-year period 中 that an ordinary passport is to be revoked when a provisional passport is issued to the holder of the passport
i-6cd0216fb6947973-171	The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 15 April this year. The Council has looked at the proposals, and there is nothing to recall. Compared to the past, the passports made today are relatively difficult to forge. And it will probably be harder and harder as technology develops. What do you do when you simply cannot falsify a passport? Well, you use the method called look-alike. You simply look for a passport where the actual bag holder looks like you. If you do that, it is quite easy to get through checks, if no further checks are made than a purely visual one. This allows people dealing with, for example, organised crime or terrorist organisations to travel easily and anonymously and to get around any travel bans they have. Of course, the fact that Sweden's passport is one of the strongest makes it particularly desirable. There is an intelligence report, which can be read about in the bill, from November 2014. It describes how criminal networks in Sweden trade in Swedish passports, both in Sweden and internationally, of course. There is a well-organised and comprehensive trade. Networks involved in smuggling sell passports or buy passports themselves, depending on their needs. Several of the networks also have links to other serious crime, such as drug smuggling, arms trafficking and trafficking in human beings. This report says that the retail selling price of a passport may vary between $7,000 and $5,000. Then it becomes quite clear that there is a lot of money to be collected for the criminal gangs to fund other types of criminal activity as well. With regard to the national identity card and the travel documents issued by the Finnish Immigration Service, i.e. foreign passports and travel documents, the memorandum states that a certain abuse occurs but that nothing has emerged that suggests that those documents are misused to the same extent as the Swedish passport does. Nevertheless, we can agree with the alliance parties, which made the proposal to appoint the government to review the regulations for them as well. As I said, the Swedish passport is among the most viable for international travel, as it also gives the right to travel without a visa to a lot of countries in the world. However, if the abuse we have today continues, it is not certain that we can continue in this way. Sweden has received criticism from other countries that it can no longer be trusted that those who travel with the Swedish documents are the real passport owners. In order, for example, to retain Swedish citizens' visa-free travel to the US, the government committed itself late last year to take certain measures, including those presented in legislative proposals now. The fact that a person should not be able to pick out any number of passports naturally reduces the risk of the passports ending up in the wrong hands, as well as the cancellation of passports when provisional passports are issued. We feel very good about that. But for those who are a real careless and actually succeed in losing their passports during this period, there are wordings in the legislation on how to get a provisional passport for a specific trip you need to make. It can be very good to know. It will be more expensive, and it will not be issued on all passport expeditions. But it will be possible to fix it. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-182	Mr President, I would like to Legislation is not adopted until it is adopted. Before it is adopted, a considerable amount of work is needed. That work has been going on for a while. We've seen this problem. I will also admit that I myself have raised this many times, not least in relation to our state authorities, on the board of the former National Police Board. Unfortunately, it is often the case that when you lift up a problem it starts with a denial by the authority that we have a problem. Not until politics enters, you start working more closely on the issue. That in itself is a concern. That initiative was taken by Beatrice Ask, then Minister of Justice. She set up the investigation that now leads us to have greater care when it comes to passports. That's good. It's necessary. Swedish passports are desirable. Swedish passports are desirable because they are safe. They are desirable because, with so-called look-like and sloppy handling at the Schengen external border, it is quite easy to get in. That in itself is a problem. Swedish passports are available in large volumes. Swedes travel a lot. Therefore, the number of passports issued has also increased sharply in recent years. In 2014, more than 11⁄2 million passports were issued. It was the same in 2013. It is therefore a large number of passport documents that are issued each year. Of course, not all of these will die. However, in 2013 59 000 missing passports were registered. It was 57 500 in 2012. There are relatively large volumes. However, in the case of issued passports, there are points to an abuse of ordinary passports. There is one person who has taken out 18 passports over the course of a year. This means that the person has taken out a passport every three weeks. Either the person is extremely careless or, unfortunately, the value of the passports on the black market, which is now estimated to be somewhere between $5,000 and $25,000, is far too attractive to avoid this. There are three people who have taken out a passport every month – twelve in a year. Another three have taken out eleven passports. There are a few people. But you can look at those people who have taken out more than three passports a year. That means 90 000 passports over the course of a year. So there is every reason to be careful about this. A variety of organisations have pointed out the problems with Swedish passports. It is Frontex, Europol, Interpol, our Swedish border police and the Migration Agency, but also other authorities. There is only one country in the EU sphere that has more lost passports than Sweden. It's France. But if you start comparing per capita, we're pretty outstanding. It's serious. We are pleased and pleased that the government has come to the fore and put forward this proposal after the investigation. We need to introduce these rules. But to our dismay, when we looked in the bill, we discovered that the government had forgotten essential things. Not all the documents that allow you to cross the border had been included. These are the so-called foreign passports, the provisional foreign passports and the so-called travel documents, which are not a ticket but paper which can be used as a passport document and which are issued on the basis of two different conventions – these are those who have refugee status or are stateless. It is considerably smaller volumes, but in 2013 it was still about 20,000 foreign passports, and in 2012 it was about 17,000. If you look at travel documents you can see that it is between 5 000 and 7 000 per year. There is every reason to believe that in the current situation we will have to issue many more of these. There is also reason to believe that now that we tighten the care requirements on regular passports, these will become more attractive. The investigator has had difficulty voicing the volumes and finds that there are large numbers of darkness. But a large number of foreign passports have been found, not least at Athens airport. The Turkish authorities have also discovered similar findings. So-called UT cards have also been found, i.e. residence permits. If we tighten the legislation in one area, we must be consistent. That is why we from the Moderates have initiated a motion, which we in the Alliance agreed to awaken together. We now also note that the whole committee recognises that the government did not run to the finish. For legislation to be effective, it must apply to all travel documents. If you screw in one direction, it will start to do another. There is also a purely decent requirement in this. This is about equal treatment. This is a requirement for citizens to be careful. If we make care requirements for those who receive documents issued by the Swedish State, we must make the same care requirements for everyone. It's a purely decency requirement. In addition, we have taken up the residence permit cards. We want them to be reviewed, and this for the reason that they are primarily not a travel document but a way of showing that you have the right to reside in the country. However, they actually act as a visa when entering the Schengen area. Mr President, I would like to I know from my own experience how it's done. I've seen that you look at the card, but you don't look at the one who has the card. It is quite easy that there is a 75-year-old man sitting in the dark in the car instead of the 30-year-old woman who should have been sitting there. So there is every reason to look at this. Mr President, I would like to We call for the committee's proposal to be approved. We follow the biometric passports closely. We have chosen not to exercise; it is like kicking in an open door because it is announced that there will be sharpening. But we will follow the matter closely. If nothing happens, we are prepared to exercise. If there is nothing happening now either when it comes to foreign passports and travel documents within, say, the space of a year, we ourselves are prepared to go in and propose concrete real legislation. I support the committee's proposal.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-200	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish passport is a valuable document. When I thought about this debate, I thought that I personally got a very close relationship with my Swedish passport during the 17 years I lived in then West Germany. It was my only ID. That's where the residence permit was fixed. They had to go to the police at regular intervals, about every three years, to get a new stamp. That's the passport I had to show you. It looked much more solid than the then Western German ID card, which seemed to be very easy to forge. I learned to appreciate my Swedish passport. When I saw yesterday that the Swedish passport also well defends its international position as the second most open passport in the world after the German, I must say that I think the Swedish passport is worth all respect. A passport that is worthy of respect should be protected. That is why the proposals we are debating today and hopefully will decide on this afternoon are important. We're here to protect the passport. Sweden is an open country. We depend on the world, and the world depends on us. It's a mutual relationship, and then the passports are important. Passports are misused. It's a fact. Then it is important that we ensure that passports are misused as little as possible. I very much appreciate the fact that we have such a broad parliamentary consensus on this issue. My colleague Elin Lundgren has well described the situation and how it has arisen and the work on it, so I will not go into it. I will nevertheless comment on Krister Hammarbergh's comments on the Alliance's motion. We think it is reasonable, and so we have not reserved ourselves on the matter either. I would like to say that dismay is perhaps a harsh word to use. I think it is wise that we should also include foreign passports and other documents in this and show it to the government. However, one can also think about this: If I were a refugee smuggler or passport forger, I would perhaps first of all make sure that I have a proper Swedish passport, because I think all possible controllers will look a little bit extra carefully if you come with a foreign passport or some other ID document. However, that is not what we should disagree about. We agree that we should also extend this in the long term. The important thing is that we get Swedish passports that will continue to be documents that you have respect for all over the world and that are as difficult as possible to forge in relation to that they should nevertheless be relatively simple documents. I am thinking, for example, of my children and their passports. I have to say that I think it is quite logical to shorten the validity of passports for small children. They usually change pretty quickly. I still remember picking up the passport and looking at the child and thinking: How can you compare these two – the picture with reality? And how ever is the passerman supposed to see that it's the same person? These are good changes which are now on the table of Parliament and which we will decide on today. We will protect the Swedish passport; it is worth it. It is important to prevent, as far as possible, any counterfeits and sales.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-209	Mr President, I would like to Even though there is so much to worry about in this dark time, you can daily see light points: people who defy Jante and conventions, who try new thoughts and who risk everything for an idea. They see the world as a playing field. It is large and unknown, with risks and obstacles, but it offers enormous opportunities for those who can, want and dare. It is usually said that the best wines grow on the worst soils, and perhaps this is something of a natural law. The vine's roots that have struggled down through stony bars also have the ability to capture the best of tasty minerals that lay the foundation for the quality of the wine. Perhaps it is a bit the same with our heroes, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs around our elongated country, who, despite long distances from the big markets, are doing impressively well. A pleasant thing about this modern age is social media, which means that we can follow friends up close, even if they happen to live far away. There are few things that make me as happy as when a Facebook friend – someone you have not rarely come to know through political engagement – writes about a new order from the other side of the world on a special industrial machine that they build in Kungshamn. Someone else, from Småland, wins over American, Japanese and Korean companies when it comes to manufacturing a small, but extremely important, detail to a braking system that sits on a sports car that makes 300 kilometers an hour. The list can be made long. The background to this ability is certainly complex, and there is much to do to continue improving the conditions for entrepreneurship in Sweden. But in common with all these people, at some point they decided not to see the borders of the country as an obstacle. They saw the bigger picture, saw opportunities where others saw problems, found customers and markets where just the ability that was being brushed up in a village in Småland or Bohuslän fit perfectly. Of course, a prerequisite for these extremely important transactions to happen is that there are no legal obstacles to doing cross-border business, that customs duties and other barriers to trade are restricted and, preferably, there are no such things, but also that we can travel without great inconvenience. As has been said earlier during the debate, the Swedish passport is one of the world's strongest. With a Swedish passport in hand, we can travel to many countries without a visa. Although special actions are often needed to do business, the first step is already taken. This is a system that is threatened by the misuse of Swedish passports. It seems that some people have put in the system of losing their passport and picking up a new one and repeating this time and time again. It is an unfortunate and, in my opinion, unsustainable order. The government's proposal and the committee's addition to other travel documents will make it more difficult for those who lose more than three passports over a five-year period, for never so legitimate reasons. It is, of course, regrettable, but unfortunately necessary to curb the abuse that is taking place. Knowing that this is a fact that happens to you if you are careless with your passports, you may try a little extra to keep track of them. However, it will always be possible to travel with a provisional passport, which is important to add. Mr President, I would like to It's both fun and worried when such a broad consensus prevails across party boundaries. I realise, as the penultimate speaker, that this may be a bit redundant, but I nevertheless call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-218	Mr President, I would like to I would like to add my voice to the last point made by the previous speaker and call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The Christian Democrats believe that this proposal is a good one. We support the bill. An important part of combating terrorism that threatens international peace and security, that threatens national security and that threatens our fundamental rights and freedoms is about making it more difficult and stopping the misuse of Swedish passports. Sweden must have a strong defence against this kind of threat. And in matters such as these, it is important and good to have a broad consensus. Mr President, I would like to It is necessary for fingerprints and facial images to be checked when crossing the external border of Schengen to and from Sweden. An important step in the process of strengthening border control is to be able to seize passports from persons suspected of joining terrorist organisations abroad. When Swedish passports are used for criminal activities, it needs to be made more difficult and expensive to get more passports. We therefore support, as I said, the bill which contains a series of measures to prevent this behaviour. The misuse of Swedish passports is a major problem, which Krister Hammarbergh, in particular, described. This poses a security risk because persons associated with organised crime and terrorist organisations can travel anonymously and circumvent travel bans by using passports other than their own. One of the most effective measures to make the misuse of passports more difficult would be to introduce at the external borders of the Schengen area a mandatory verification of biometric information in passports involving both citizens of the Union and third-country nationals. Sweden is working, and should act even more forcefully, within the EU to introduce such controls. This should happen urgently. Mr President, I would like to The proposal also proposes setting a limit of three passports that can be taken within a five-year period unless there are specific reasons against it. If there are obstacles to issuing a regular passport, the applicant shall be entitled to receive a provisional passport if he or she is in need of it for his or her trip. We think that this is reasonable and balanced. We also support the proposal that the validity of ordinary passports should be reduced to three years for children under the age of 12, given that children's appearance changes a lot in a short time. The proposals in the bill are therefore in line with what the Christian Democrats think about the need to do more to stop the misuse of Swedish passports. At the committee committee, the Christian Democrats and the Alliance proposed in a motion a supplement to the proposal that the increased restriction should apply in a similar way to all residents of Sweden regardless of the type of document used for border crossings. This is one of the reasons we have for the proposed amendments to apply to travel documents issued by the Finnish Immigration Service. There were no such proposals in the government proposal, but I welcome the fact that a united committee is now behind it. A broad consensus on this type of issue is positive. That is why I once again call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-227	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with the application of the special foreign control law, which is often discussed in the Committee on Justice. Every time, the Swedish Democrats have come up with proposals to change the law. I support our reservation in the report. As the first paragraph states, the law on special foreigner control states that foreigners – i.e. those who are not Swedish citizens – may be expelled under the law if it is necessary for national security or if there is a fear that they will commit terrorist offences. These are quite serious situations that we are talking about here. As the report states, it is certainly not so often that decisions are taken on the basis of this law. However, even if there are few decisions, we still believe that if the law is inadequate or not sufficiently sharp, it should be amended. We have now proposed that. We mean, for example, that it should be tightened up as to when these people should be expelled. We believe that this should be a general rule rather than deportation. The main rule shall be a life ban on returning. If terrorists or people pose a threat to national security, the general rule should be a life ban instead of a time limit. A major shortcoming in this context is the emergence of enforcement barriers when a person is to be expelled – the risk of torture or anything else in his home country. This means that this person can receive a temporary residence permit and stay here in Sweden. The expulsion is postponed, and this person is allowed to go more or less freely here in Sweden. Some measures are taken such as searches or notification requirements at some point in the week. We believe that this is completely inadequate. If someone poses a threat to national security, do people seriously believe that reporting obligations are sufficient? Do people seriously believe that every now and then a search warrant is sufficient to ensure that this person is under control? We don't think so. We believe that all those sentenced to expulsion under this law should be detained until enforcement can take place. They should simply be incarcerated. They have the opportunity to leave the country whenever they wish if they do not get agreements with third countries or if they cannot be expelled to their country of origin. Then they have the opportunity to leave the country whenever they want. If they don't, at least they shouldn't go free in this country. That should be a basic requirement. For my life I cannot understand why all other parties think that the current order is ok not. According to the law today, there is an opportunity to escape punishment if you come back after you have been expelled, if you have returned to Sweden because of persecution. It is quite funny, because people who are terrorists in other countries are being persecuted, so to speak. And there are those who come to Sweden because they have committed crimes in another country and because they are, so to speak, persecuted and risk severe punishment in their home country. Then the situation may be such that we expel someone because he is a terrorist and a threat to national security. Then he comes back to Sweden because his home country does not like that he is a terrorist, and then he escapes punishment in this country. Is that reasonable? The Swedish Democrats do not think so. So we have a number of different proposals, and I have mentioned some of them. No one supports them, and no one has their own proposals. Everyone thinks the law is good the way it is. The Moderates, as it has been called, have recently reconsidered their policies. For example, it has been said that we will expel more, including for theft. It is a step forward, but this report has no reservations. We are pleased with this. Here we now have the chance to ensure that the law becomes sharper so that more are expelled or, if they are not expelled, are kept incarcerated. But we won't see anything like that either. For my life, I cannot understand why none of the parties are putting up with the ideas of the Swedish Democrats about keeping these people incarcerated, that expulsion should be the general rule, that they should not escape punishment if they return to Sweden because of persecution and so on. It is quite natural action against terrorists and against people who pose a threat to national security. That is why we in the Swedish Democrats tabled these proposals, and we therefore call for their approval.
i-RvD9aF4c266LYDZy4KwQej	Mr President, I would like to In this case, we are dealing with the Government's letter on the application of the Special Alien Control Act 2015. During the period, the government has made a decision under the law. The decision rejected an appeal against an expulsion decision. As proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, I request that the letter be added to the file. Mr President, I would like to The reason why the government submits a letter of this kind to the Riksdag is that the law on special foreign control is important. It is a matter of national security, and the use of the law has tangible consequences for individuals. The assessment of whether a person may pose a threat to national security or whether it may be feared that a person may commit or contribute to terrorist offences must be made in a qualitative and legally secure manner in all respects. On the basis of this letter, the Swedish Democrats have been exercising on changes to the legislation. It is, of course, the case that the order of a procedure can and must be discussed, but today it is the case that this works. When a person applies for a residence permit or citizenship from the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish Security Service receives a referral in some cases. The opinion from the Swedish Security Service will then be a basis for the Finnish Immigration Service's decision on the matter as a whole. This is a system that works well. Cooperation between the authorities on these issues is close, and that is a good thing. As far as I am aware, the Migration Agency has always taken Säpo's views very seriously. I have not seen an example where the recommendation that has come from the Security Service has not been followed. Now the Swedish Democrats are exercising that Säpo should decide on expulsion. But no one, at least those who are eligible for decisions under this legislation, applies to the Security Service for a residence permit or citizenship – and probably would not. There is also no need to change Säpo's assignment. What is important is that we have a system and procedures in the general flow of applications that allow people to be found who need to be extra visible from a counter-terrorism perspective. So far this has worked. However, the large increase in the number of asylum applications involves the examination of all procedures, including those relating to special checks on aliens. In addition, the long processing times at the Migration Agency and not least all those who have come to Sweden without being registered at all. This is where we have a problem today, not with the organisation and use of this legislation. The real dilemma, then, is not the formal decision-making process but the volumes – and enforcement barriers. Sweden and most democratic countries are internationally committed not to expel people to countries where they can risk torture, capital punishment or persecution. Sometimes it is also difficult to determine nationality, and sometimes it is not recognised by the host country. This means that it happens that people who are to be expelled will remain in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats believe that persons who are to be expelled following a decision under the legislation we are discussing should be detained pending enforcement. It's really easier said than done. Firstly, the number of detention centres is not enough at all. There are now 255 detention centres in Stockholm, and they are to be used for a great deal. It is clear that we Moderates have said that we think that this should be expanded, but I do not think that we should use these precious places for this purpose. Secondly, detention is only appropriate for short periods. In these cases, it may be that there are enforcement barriers for a very long time, and for humanitarian reasons it is not appropriate to keep people in detention for such long periods. That is why there are other ways of controlling those people who cannot be expelled. This is done through supervision of various types; it is a matter of reporting obligations, checks and so on. That is also the way it works. It is very restrictive for the individual, and I have not heard any examples that it has not worked. The motion for Sweden to draw up agreements with third countries that wish to receive these people even though they are not their own citizens is also part of the Swedish Democrats' motion. It's all about its own absurdity, isn't it? Which countries would that be? Much the same is true of the proposal that persons in detention should be able to leave the country voluntarily with and with the help of the police. How are we gonna do that? Should the police help people you think should be expelled because of a terrorist connection to go to any country that is happy to receive people suspected of terrorist connections? It's all crazy, this proposal! I cannot understand how such a thing can be presented; it is counterproductive of everything we have in order to combat terrorism. On the other hand, I think there may be a reason – even a blind chicken, it is usually said – to consider the sanctions for infringements of expulsion decisions. Today's penalties, fines and up to a year's imprisonment, may well be mild in these cases. It is of course the case that people who have returned to Sweden but have not carried out the penalties they have been sentenced to execute will serve them, regardless of the reason why they have returned. Mr President, I would like to The Special Alien Control Act works. The large influx of refugees also involves trials in terms of control. We will have reason to monitor developments closely, but this primarily concerns issues of resources and procedures – not the organisation and the legislation itself.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-249	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask mentioned various reasons why the motion should not be approved or disagreed with some of the proposals. One of the reasons was that detention places are not enough – that detention places are scarce and that we should not use these precious places for such matters. I find that a little strange given that it is a threat to national security and to terrorists. Is there any place that should be used for this is the places we have. Then it has been that the occupancy of Swedish prisons is lower now than it has been, so there are certainly also places to find. Another argument Beatrice Ask put forward was that it is humanitarian reasons that prevent us from keeping these people in custody. So here we are talking about threats to national security, perhaps terrorists, and we should consider being humane to those people and not keeping them incarcerated for humanitarian reasons. The Swedish Democrats and I are of the opinion that the humane thing should reasonably be to keep people who are a threat to national security or terrorists incarcerated. It is the humane against Sweden and the Swedish people. Humanity must reasonably take precedence over feeling sorry for a terrorist. Beatrice Ask also mentioned other ways of controlling. I was in on that in my speech. We do not think that reporting once a week is enough for terrorists or people who pose a threat to national security. I find it surprising that the Moderates think so. And no, the police are not going to help anyone; the police are going to escort them out of the country. We do not want to let anyone out of the detention centres and then hope that he will get to the airport or whatever it is, but the police will escort him out if he chooses to leave the country. It's no wonder. If we say that we are going to expel this person, Sweden has with expulsion do but already said that we are sending a terrorist or someone who poses a threat to national security. We would have done that if there were no enforcement barriers, so it is no wonder in itself that the person in question is leaving the country. That's the whole point of this law.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-254	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the cost of detention places and the number are not the main reason why I do not think they should be used in this context. The reason is that it is people who are not convicted of a crime, but it is feared that they may have such contacts or that they have such a background. They're not exactly convicted of a crime. To lock people up more or less for several years is unreasonable in a state governed by the rule of law. You can't behave like that. That's wrong. On the other hand, we should not be dealing with the obligation to notify and that type of checks. I have been in the vicinity of some of these matters and can confirm that people find it very difficult to constantly have to contact the police, state what you are doing and where you are, that you cannot travel freely and so on. The reporting obligation provides the police with better conditions to control what these people are doing. In each individual case being examined, there are different degrees of suspicion. Some have weaker connections, and the risk is less than that of others. This makes it unreasonable to say, as the Swedish Democrats say, 'lock them all in and throw away the key!' It does not work, and that is the wrong proportion of that kind of consistency. What I mean is that we need a consistent and well-functioning system, and we do. The challenge now is that there are very many people that we do not have time to control, and that concerns me. It would be better if the Swedish Democrats put a little focus on how to handle that matter than to change something that actually works.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-258	Mr President, I would like to Clearly, we have a huge influx of people now. How do you handle it? By doing what we Swedish democrats have been trying to do for decades now, closing the border on asylum seekers and starting to expel people. With our policy, zero people would be granted asylum in this country, if we were to decide. Then the inflow would be significantly reduced – to put it mildly. Beatrice Ask said that it is unreasonable in the rule of law to keep people incarcerated. No, it's not. They are convicted in Swedish courts, and the rule of law has the opportunity and the right to keep people incarcerated. It's nothing weird. They're being convicted in a Swedish court of law, so just do it. We have a law that says they will be held in custody if enforcement cannot be achieved. If they choose not to leave the country, it is their choice. It's not that weird. Then I think it is a good thing that Beatrice Ask supports the punitive measures that we are proposing in the motion, which I did not mention in my speech – that the minimum level should be increased and the penalties for infringements tightened up. Then I hope that the Moderates also agree with us that those who have come and been expelled under this law will not escape punishment just because they claim to be persecuted. It's also a penalty. It is good that we seem, at least a little bit, to agree on this point.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-261	Mr President, I would like to The opinion of the Moderates is that a penalty shall be imposed on those who are convicted of a crime whenever possible. If you have not been in the country at that time, but if you have come back again, the penalty should of course be enforced. There's nothing weird about it. It sounds so simple that we should close the border, that no one should get asylum and one with the other. That is not really what the reality is with the international commitments we have and with the regulations we have in this country. I find it unreasonable to keep people locked up for ten years if they have not committed a very serious crime. When you do the special foreigner's control, you make an assessment of a person's contacts and operations. But you don't try a direct crime, because then there'll be another penalty. That's when it becomes disproportionate. However, this assessment means that you need to have control of what people do and not, so that they can not cause anything if they remain in Sweden. I mean, we have tools to handle that. The problem, which is not at all addressed by the Swedish Democrats, is that it is many people that it takes too long to control in the extensive flow of people who have come to Sweden in recent times. You have to work on that. However, this is not because the legislation is wrong, but because of the volumes and processing times. There we need to work on resources and see what can be done to ensure that we do not have any problems in the future.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-265	Mr President, I would like to So the basis for what we are debating today is the letter that the government submits annually on the Special Alien Control Act and how it has been applied over the last period. In the letter I can see that the law on special foreign control works exactly as it is intended. The law has been applied forty times since it was created in 1991 in this form, some years not at all and sometimes up to five times. The letter also shows that most of the cases reported relate to cases which are re-examinations of previous expulsion decisions. The period covered by the letter concerns a case, and it is at the low level that it has been since the turn of the millennium, when it was up to five different cases. The report is based on the information provided by the Security Police to the Government. In addition to the specific number of persons covered, the development of international terrorism is also described. When I threw my script together last night, I wrote that the terrorist threat level n against Sweden is a four on the five-degree scale. But about an hour ago, I believe that all Members of Parliament and everyone who follows the news have heard that today, Säpo has decided to raise the terrorist threat level to level 3, which means increased. I would like to stress that it does not mean that the terrorist threat is gone, but it is nevertheless gratifying that the level is returning to the level that was 2010. I do not intend to lose myself on this matter in any sort of statement about the recent tightening up that has been made about terrorism. I think we all know that legislative changes have been made which are now in place, which I think is very good.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-270	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved, something I forgot to do in my previous speech. I would like to start where the previous speaker ended, namely in Säpo's currently published assessment that the terrorist threat level can be lowered for Sweden. When we read the letter from the government and at the same time receive this message, I would like to point out, as several speakers have done, that the legislation is working. We have a legal system in Sweden. We can handle it, and especially in a very difficult situation. We know that, internationally, the threat of terrorism is not reduced. Internationally, terror is increasing and must be combated. It leads to unreasonable flows of refugees in the world. Unfortunately, terror is increasing in Libya, Syria and many other countries. Then it is very gratifying that we in Sweden actually have control of the situation. Then there are many challenges, and we shall be well aware of them. However, there is no reason at this stage, as Beatrice Ask pointed out earlier, to amend the legislation. However, we shall ensure that everything continues to work. It's not night black. And this country will be built by law. We should not push for tightening up when that is not what we need. Mr President, I would like to As I said, I support the committee's proposal.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-276	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's economy is doing well. Only the day before yesterday, the latest bnp figures were presented. Not only were they exceptionally high figures, but they also exceeded expectations among market players. We have nine years of alliance budgets behind us. We see that employment is rising and that tax revenues are continuing to increase. It's not natural. It is simply the result of companies being able and willing to employ so that more people get jobs. It is also a result of people having received more money in their wallet through the job tax deductions that they have chosen to spend on, among other things, higher consumption. Sweden is in great need of reform. There's a lot of things that need to get better. But should a government have freedom of action and room for manoeuvre when the challenges are to be met, a robust economy is the very foundation for many reforms at all to be possible. Mr President, I would like to With the 2016 budget, we now see for the first time the whole of government and Left Party tax policy. It is worth repeating that, so far, we have not been able to see what the government's policy as a whole leads to – simply because this year's budget is the first one of the current government. However, we can already see that the tax policy pursued by the government is starting to have effects. We can also see that the government does not want to be aware of these effects. What, then, is the impact of tax policy? A recent study shows that the Swedish people's tendency to hire black labour again increases when the government chooses to reduce RUT and ROT deductions. This is worrying not only because it leads to a deterioration of conditions for businesses, employment and households, but because it also risks leading to a loss of tax revenue for the State. Why, then, does the government not want to be aware of the effects of its policies? It was clear when the government presented this year's budget that it does not want to calculate the impact of its policies on employment. Transparency and transparency should be key words in politics. It is essential that we can obtain relevant information on the effects of the policies pursued. The Alliance government reported on the impact of policies in a number of areas, including employment. The current government has chosen not to disclose this effect. It is clear that it is worrying when the government does not want to calculate the impact of tax policy on employment. Mr President, I would like to What does the government want? If we go beyond the media rhetoric and the games, the picture of what the government wants is divided. Let me take two examples. Firstly, RUT has been criticised loudly and the deduction has been reduced from the turn of the year. Now the Minister for Finance says it is a good reform because jobs are urgently needed to get new refugees to work. What does the government really want? Secondly, through alliance budgets, five job tax deductions have been introduced, making a difference for the individual who gets more money left out of wages and for the economy through higher consumption. The Social Democrats seem to find it difficult to know which foot to stand on. It criticises the reform and changes it, but it has largely been left behind. Now is the time to give information to Swedish employees: Will the employment tax deduction remain in future Social Democratic budgets? What does the government want in this area? Mr President, I would like to We know that the prerequisite for a functioning labour market across the country is that we get more companies that start and want to grow. We know that in recent years four out of five new jobs have been created in small businesses. Then the focus must be on making it easier for these companies. Otherwise, we cannot increase employment and meet the challenge of integration. The Center Party is pushing for more entrepreneurial reforms, both as an individual party and together with the Alliance. Let me highlight the Alliance's exercise on employee options as an example. Sometimes it is difficult for entrepreneurs to attract the necessary skills at an early stage. In many other countries, this problem is solved through various incentive schemes where people with key skills are given options, i.e. the right to buy shares in the company at a predetermined price. In order to create more owner-led companies and enable more companies to attract the right skills, it is important that the regulatory framework for employee options is now improved. The Alliance government began such work. Mr President, I would like to Taxes are the most effective instrument we have. In the Center Party we are clear that you control what you want more of and what you want less of with the help of taxes. It is of the utmost importance that you choose the right one. Otherwise, the consequences could be great. The Centre Party has a reservation underlining the principle of a green tax shift in which tax is reduced on jobs and businesses while at the same time increasing it on environmentally harmful emissions and activities. The government does not seem to want a green tax exchange. This year's budget increases the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship by about 28 billion. In fact, 80% of the tax increases in the budget are taxes on jobs, while only 10% is taxes on environmentally hazardous activities. Mr President, I would like to I support the Alliance's reservation No 6 on employee stock options and the Center Party's reservation No 3 on tax scales and so on.
i-WunvAUW6jojFLURPDWS93z	Mr President, I would like to I support our reservation No 1. I also support the Alliance's joint reservation No 6. The Swedish economy is so far one of the strongest in Europe, but the future is worrying because we have a government that runs a policy that is both job- and growth-inhibiting. To date, the current government has only ruled with its budget for 62 days. I note that in these 62 days the Minister of Finance's description of Sweden's economy has gone from empty barn to newly produced Tesla. Sometimes it's fast. Mr President, I would like to We should be able to agree that major challenges lie ahead. Unfortunately, I am afraid the Red-Green Government will choose to turn a blind eye to them. It is a question of deeper exclusion, which is concentrated primarily on foreign born and young people without complete upper secondary education. It is also about the fact that we live longer. Sweden therefore needs new ways to ensure that people get a job, a salary, co-workers and a chance to shape their own lives. A work of its own gives the community and the feeling of being needed, while at the same time giving independence through its own income and laying the foundations for the common economy. We also need to make sure that more people choose to work higher up in their ages. More jobs and more hours worked are the basis for a strong economy and for us to continue to have a high quality in our common welfare. Mr President, I would like to We live longer and longer, and that's good, right? But that means that we need more people who choose to work high up in their ages. Since 2006, 90 000 more people have been working. Not least women have chosen to stay. This is not a coincidence, Mr President. This is the result of an active alliance policy that made it less costly to employ over 65 years of age. The increased job tax deduction for older people increased the driving forces to work longer. Eurostat statistics show that Sweden has the EU's fastest growing employment rate among persons aged 65 to 74. 65 has simply become the new 45. The increase is as much as 6%. The current government is going the other way and has reintroduced a special payroll tax for people aged 65 or over. We Moderates choose the opposite route and propose a reinforced job tax deduction, which will apply as early as 64 years of age. We are introducing the deduction at the age of 64 in order to strengthen the incentives to remain in the labour market even then. The proposal would reduce the tax burden for 70 000 64-year-olds, and employment is estimated to increase by 1 000 to 4 000 people. We need more people who choose to continue working after 65, not less. Mr President, I would like to Despite the introduction of the job tax deductions, Sweden has continued to have high taxes, not least for those with low incomes. Compare, for example, a single parent with a low income, she has – yes, it is usually a she – for example three times as high a tax wedge in Sweden as in Denmark. Our proposal for a first job deduction would make it more profitable to work more, by moving from part-time to full-time, but also to leave an exclusion for work. Overall, the first job deduction is estimated to lead to increased work with the equivalent of 10,000 full-time jobs. Of these, 7 000 are estimated to come from exclusion, according to SCB. Similar tax incentives have been introduced in several countries, whose tax incentives are mainly targeted at those with the lowest incomes. The reductions are well evaluated and show clear employment effects. The Red-Green Government chooses another path where it becomes less profitable, even unprofitable in some cases, to go from alienation to inside. We need more people who leave behind, not less, and more children of single mothers who inherit a job instead of exclusion. Mr President, I would like to Finally – don't be so surprised – I was going to mention a few words about our last reservation on the RUT deduction. The RUT deduction was introduced by the Alliance in 2007 and has been an extremely successful reform. Estimates show that around 20,000 new jobs have been created in a whole new industry. According to several expert bodies, the reform was already profitable at 10,000 jobs. Today they are double, 20 000 jobs – new jobs that did not exist before, at least not in the white sector. Black jobs have become white, families with children have got their everyday puzzles together and women's participation in the labour force has increased by the equivalent of 13 000 full-time jobs. This compares with men, where the increase is 5 000 full-time jobs. 71% of business leaders in the sector are women, and last but not least 20 000 people, not least women born abroad, have got their first job in their new country. The red-green government, whose unemployment target is to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, has now reduced the RUT deduction and halved the ceiling for the deduction to 25 000. It's beyond most people's ability to understand. Even your own voters do not understand this. Even the Director General of Arbetsförmedlingen is clear that RUT jobs are an important piece of the puzzle in order for those who are far away from the labour market to get a foothold and that the risk is great because many now hit the ceiling and choose to buy fewer services. The Director-General says: We have to work on various types of proposals that create jobs that suit people a little further away from the labour market. According to our assessment, many RUT services of such a kind are suitable for this group. The unemployment rate of women born abroad is over 50 per cent, compared to natives where unemployment is 4.8 per cent. Contrary to the red-green government, we want to maintain the RUT ceiling but also extend it to other services such as moving RUT. We simply need more ways into the labour market, not less, more white jobs, not less, more women in responsible positions, not less, more families with children's everyday puzzles that go together, not less, and more new Swedes who get their first job in Sweden, not less! Just like Per Åsling said, taxes and subsidies control behavior. It is clear what behaviours the red-green government wants to see more of.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-313	Mr President, I would like to In the Sku16 report, which deals with motions on income tax for natural persons, the Swedish Democrats have three reservations, but for time winning I choose to apply only for reservation 14. In Sweden, we will charge fair but sufficient taxes to finance joint commitments that are perceived by the common people as obvious parts to be included in the public sector. Taxes should be used, for example, for national affairs such as welfare, infrastructure and defence, for the benefit of the Swedish people and for the safety of all of us. However, the need for tax collection also depends on the ambitions, both for welfare and at all. Then it is important not only to talk about what taxes should be done but also what they should not do. I believe that taxes should, to the minimum possible – much less than they are today – be used to support the huge quantities of foreigners who come here to exploit our welfare. We have a high tax burden in Sweden today, and keeping high pressure for that reason is nothing but irresponsible. Previous speakers have pointed out that there have been new growth figures that look good. But seriously, our economy is not healthy. The mere fact that we have a Riksbank holding a repo rate of minus 0.5% indicates that something is not quite right. Now the Institute of Economics has provided information that taxes must be increased in order to cope with the influx of welfare migrants. In the 2016 Sustainability Report for Public Finances, published yesterday, March 1, 2016, the Economic Institute says that current tax rates will not be enough to finance a welfare commitment at today's level for the next 25 years. In the short term, it is a question of the costs of, in particular, the reception of asylum. This means that the costs of receiving asylum destroy our chances of keeping a tax level that promotes jobs, growth and welfare. A recent investigation into the Swedish Parliament's investigation service revealed that the proportion of full-year employees, including entrepreneurs among refugees, including refugee relatives, was 25 per cent after they had spent eight years in Sweden. After 15 years, the figure was 34 per cent, i.e. a significantly lower proportion than among the Swedish-born population. The need for tax collection also depends on the proportion of the population working and paying taxes. The immigration policy pursued is counterproductive in maintaining as high a proportion as possible that pays taxes. As far as income taxes are concerned, progressivity is absolutely not wrong. It is perfectly reasonable that the person who earns more should also pay more, even as a percentage of how much you earn. But there's an upper pain limit somewhere. The highest marginal tax in Sweden, including the military tax, last autumn was around 57 per cent and with the latest budget has increased by a few percentage points. It's very high from an international perspective. A target, some kind of benchmark, should be half left, that is, half of the last one earned a hundred. It would be possible to strive if we had given better priority to our costs. The Swedish democrats said no to the government's marginal tax increases during the autumn budget preparation, we said no to the increased government tax, and we said no to increased special wage tax for the elderly. In our budget option, we prioritised, among other things, a reduction in the general salary levy. The reason we said no to those particular taxes was that it should pay better to work. It should be considered attractive to work instead of not working, and it should also be attractive to work more for those already working. We have also pointed out, ever since we entered Parliament in 2010, that it is unfair and illogical for pensioners to pay more tax for their pension than employees do for their salary. We have always had the objective of completely abolishing the additional tax on pensioners. We have anticipated in our last draft budget that it would be possible to completely eliminate that difference from 2018, as we also show in our budget document. Mr President, I would like to In this report, we have chosen to support a proposal for the preservation of part of the cultural heritage. That is the reservation that I proposed to approve earlier. Cultural heritage has its own value through, among other things, the beauty values and aesthetics it represents. Protecting cultural heritage is also a way of showing respect for previous generations and remembering what they have achieved and, not least, a way of strengthening the national sense. An important part of our cultural heritage is the buildings that are deemed to be of cultural historical value. They serve not least the function of highlighting cultural heritage in everyday life in Swedish society. The Swedish Democrats have therefore proposed the introduction of a specifically targeted ROT deduction for renovation work on buildings of cultural historical value. In this report, we have also supported a proposal that the government should investigate and propose a deduction in the taxation of the benefit of employee stock options in start-ups, precisely because the supply of capital in start-ups is often an obstacle and risks leading to the failure of inventions, innovations and new business ideas.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-327	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. It is again time in this House to discuss taxes and fiscal policies, more specifically income taxes and the more than 140 claims which are dealt with in this round through various motions. The issue of taxes is perceived by many as a technically difficult issue, but basically we think it is very simple and ideological. It is about what society we want and how this society is to be created. It is about distribution policy and how we are to distribute the wealth that is created in our society. It is about what kind of welfare we want and how it is to be financed. For the Left Party, equality policy is central. Equal societies reduce the gaps. Equal societies make people live longer. Equal societies have proved to be superior to competitive societies where hungry wolves are said to hunt best. A prerequisite for equal societies is a common and strong welfare and an active distribution policy with redistributive taxes. Mr President, I would like to Some important starting points for the Left Party when we are discussing fiscal policy are, firstly, that total taxation needs to be increased and not reduced. We need more money for welfare, not less. We need increased resources for health care to work, for teachers to be able to get higher salaries and for preschool teachers to be employed so that children's groups can be reduced. The strong and structurally underfunded and understaffed welfare is today borne by, for example, the underpaid members of the Municipal Council. After the parliament and government have for many years eroded the money allocated to the local government sector, I hope this year for a trend break and that the Social Democratic-led government is prepared to meet the Left Party's demand of SEK 10 billion for the local government sector. It is money that could, for example, be used to employ 7 000 social security secretaries, 8 000 under nurses and 8 000 preschool teachers. It is people who are needed in health care, in health care and within the social services that are currently heavily burdened. Now it is up to the government to prove that the talk of great welfare efforts does not just stop at talk. Let us also agree that this can only be a first step in the journey towards establishing a well-being to trust for everyone who lives in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Secondly, taxes must be redistributive and paid according to viability. This means that those who have the best value will pay more in tax and that those who have the worst value will pay less in tax. Those with the highest incomes should contribute to our common welfare rather than drastically reducing their tax through deductions. In our general welfare society, care, school, care, culture and so on should be paid with the tax and not distributed according to the thickness of the wallet. In such a society, the tax must be redistributive and progressive in order to reduce disparities and to achieve the objective of equality. Then we must move away from the bourgeoisie that has made the tax system a Swiss cheese with all kinds of deductions for those who have the best strained. RUT needs to be abolished, job tax deductions phased out and interest rebates greatly reduced. The money is better used to create higher jobs that give everyone a chance to get into work and to make strong investments in, for example, the disadvantaged infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to Another and much better idea than, for example, using the SEK 4 billion currently spent on the RUT deduction is to increase the child benefit by SEK 180 per child per month. It would be a welcome addition of nearly $1,500 a year for many poor families with two children. Instead of making a contribution that is most used by the richest tenth in Sweden, we could stimulate the whole economy. For me, it is incomprehensible that the Social Democrats have not long announced that we should remove this upper-class contribution, which mainly goes to the richest cranx municipalities around Stockholm– Danderyd, Lidingö and Täby– but also goes to Lomma and Vellinge. It is an unhealthy distribution policy, and very few low-income people can even make use of this contribution. I would also like to take this opportunity to support the Left Party's reservation on the deduction of travel expenses. It is a deduction which today does not work and which the Swedish Tax Agency has repeatedly noted has a large tax error of several billions. It is a deduction made mainly by motorists in metropolitan regions and by men to a much greater extent than women, and it clearly favours driving over public transport. In other words, it is the opposite of what the idea of deduction basically is. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight in particular Rasmus Ling and Karin Svensson Smiths's very well-formulated and important exercise, which wants to identify the public support that counteracts environmental objectives in the transport sector and create programmes to gradually phase them out. I am surprised that the Socialist and environmental part of the committee has not voted in favour of this very well formulated and wise motion. From the Left side, we want to investigate the possibility of tax-free public transport cards as a salary benefit, which today, for example, can be health care, in order to ensure in every way that the car does not remain the norm but to lead to more people choosing public transport. The exercise by Anders Schröder and others on the reform of the travel allowance also has a very good approach. All in all, we reserve the right to reform the deduction of travel expenses. I note that there are several parties in the bourgeois bloc that are also moving in that direction. Perhaps, with a little work until next time, we could create a consensus on a reform of the failed system of deduction. Mr President, I would like to If we are serious about the committee's wording that the tax system should ensure the financing of general welfare, mobilise resources for society's investments and act as a levelling-off between groups and individuals' lives, the government must be able to cope with and dare more. Let us take a first step by making a strong investment of 10 billion to the local government sector. To do this in the future, more taxes need to be increased and deductions abolished. With this, I call for the motion in the committee's report and for the rejection of all bourgeois motions, including those of the Swedish Democrats, but also for the Left Party's reservation on the deduction of travel expenses.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-343	Mr President, I would like to It was not an unexpected speech by Daniel Sestrajcic, I have to say. And he got off his ankles, didn't he? I would like to begin by looking at what you have written in your particular opinion. You write that the RUT deduction is a blow in the air in the quest to create equality between women and men. What has happened since the RUT reform? Women's participation in employment has increased by 13 000 new posts, compared with 5 000 new posts for men. We can see that the everyday puzzles of families with children have come together. We can see that women dare to take on more responsibility. I know that you are not particularly fond of entrepreneurship and capital, but if you are striving for gender equality, it is a good thing that both sexes have the same opportunities to run businesses and have capital at their disposal. This has been a unique opportunity for women to have access to capital and businesses. In addition, a great many women, not least born abroad, have been given a chance to enter the labour market. My question to Daniel Sestrajcic is this: can you really call yourself a feminist party if you are so persistently opposed to reform and a sector that makes women increase their participation in the labour force, get jobs, have access to capital and can run businesses?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-347	Mr President, I would like to It is always exciting when one of Parliament's least feminist parties claims to be the most feminist! I believe that the RUT deduction, which today costs SEK 4 billion, is a blow to the air. It is primarily high income earners who can benefit from this allowance. It is a distribution policy that is heading in the wrong direction. It is a distribution policy which basically allows the richest to reduce their taxes, while low-income earners cannot use this deduction. With RUT deduction it costs around SEK 1,700 every month to get cleaned up at home four hours a week. In principle, no low-income earner is able to take advantage of it. A reasonable family policy should be based on general allowances with general support to release women from housework. For example, an increase in child benefit is a much better policy than a misallocated tax deduction. The figure of 20,000 new jobs, which you often throw away with, comes from Almega and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I have not seen any reliable study supporting that figure. Instead, investing this money in the public sector would lead to many more jobs, such as jobs for nurses and socionomists and other types of jobs that everyone in society can apply for. The battle in the air is clear as regards the RUT deductions. But I understand that the Moderates are in favour, as it is the moderate core voters in Danderyd, Lidingö and Täby who take advantage of the deduction.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-353	Mr President, I would like to It would be absolutely amazing if all 668 000 RUT buyers were among the Mothers' core voters! Then I would not have had to stand in the Chamber more times. Daniel Sestrajcic points out that the RUT deduction has cost SEK 4 billion. The Financial Control Board found this to be profitable for the total economy at 10,000 jobs. Now we're up to 20,000 jobs. The Red Green Government is now saying no to further extend this with 16 000 possible new jobs by 2020. It's a little fascinating. At the municipal level, tax revenue has increased by more people, not least women born abroad, having gone from exclusion to inside. Women continue to work seven weeks more at home than men do. We have a living wage that remains 3.6 million lower than men's. Should we not look at reforms that balance these differences? Daniel Sestrajcic says that the overall tax burden must increase. Of course you can raise the tax, but eventually it ends. You can't raise taxes all the way. Eventually, that possibility runs out. What we also need to look at is how we get more hours worked. Then it will be incredibly strange for me that you are saying that we need a higher tax burden and more tax money to collect. You keep saying no to new jobs. What is the worst thing that could happen – that people go from subsidies to work and that we get higher tax revenues in the municipal sector, where welfare services are carried out?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-358	Mr President, I would like to After the bourgeois tax years, there is a great deal of room for raising taxes. After cutting taxes by hundreds of billions, and most of all for the richest, there is room to take off. Of course, that money should not be used for subsidies, but for productive investment in our society. That money will be used to provide more colleagues, the overburdened socionomies and nurses in the care. If we take in increased taxes and invest them in the public sector, it is not that this does not give more hours worked and therefore more tax in, for example, the municipal sector. The question is what kind of job we want and what kind of society we want to create. The Left Party seeks an equal society with equal jobs and an opportunity for many more people to get their first job or, for that matter, to go from part-time to full-time. Then tax collection must increase and not decrease. The responses of the Moderates to every crisis in our society are reduced taxes. It has become clear during the eight years when the moderate-led government has ruled that this is not the solution. On the contrary, disparities, unemployment and the housing crisis have increased in our society.
i-XbtYNh911LCf2J7xbf4tKR	Mr President, I would like to I support Amendment No 5 tabled by the Liberals on paragraph 2 on the expert tax. I also support the alliance-wide reservation 6 in paragraph 4 on employee stock options. Mr President, I would like to It should pay to work, train and take responsibility. Business should be more attractive, and we want more taxpayers in our society. There are more people in work and more companies who build wealth and create cohesion in Swedish society. Having said that, today in Sweden we have major challenges linked to the large migration of refugees, which leads to many new arrivals entering the labour market, and the question of making welfare work better. Mr President, I would like to That is why the Liberals are proposing a tax reform for more people in work and for a fairer tax system. It is a tax reform that makes it more profitable to work, not least for those who currently have low incomes. It is tax proposals that also make it more profitable to train, not least for the many female academics who work in the public sector and who have trained themselves to be jobs to which they have not really paid to be trained. Teachers, librarians and occupational therapists have a long education, but are not paid for the training they have invested in. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, public finances face major challenges. We have an ageing population, and we have high expectations of well-being that are long-term issues for public finances. In the short term, we also have refugee immigration that increases the costs for the Swedish state. A responsible party must, of course, take responsibility for this situation and fully fund the reforms it wants to take to create more jobs and to increase the drive to work and to train. That is why, Mr President, the Liberals are proposing a fully funded tax reform. An important component of this is a green tax shift, where taxes on jobs and taxes on entrepreneurship are reduced, but where different forms of environmental and climate-related taxes and charges are raised to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and take important steps towards a fossil-free society. Mr President, I would like to More and growing companies are the foundation of our prosperity. But on point after point, the conditions for Swedish business and Swedish entrepreneurs are now becoming more difficult. Increased taxes, reduced RUT and ROT deductions and limitations for companies in the welfare sector are hitting the wealth-generating forces in Swedish society – against companies, against driven people and against those people who want to go to work every day and are now adversely affected by the proposals put forward by the Red Green Government. In a situation where we need to further strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, the government chooses an opposite path that leads to error. We are now entering a period of historically high tax increases, when it will be more expensive to hire older people in the labour market, more difficult and more expensive to hire people who perform services in one's home and less profitable to work and train. On point after point, the government takes measures that drive Sweden in the wrong direction. Mr President, I would like to Everything suggests that competition between countries for foreign excellence will increase both today and, above all, in the future. To strengthen Sweden in the global economy, reforms are needed that make it easier and more profitable to attract key expertise and experts. The design and functioning of the expert tax should therefore be investigated in order to strengthen the ability of companies, universities and higher education institutions to recruit key foreign personnel in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The tax system plays a major role in terms of company conditions. This applies, in particular, to the ability of smaller companies to grow. For a company that develops an advanced product or service, it is often crucial to find the right skills and be able to attract that competence. For a smaller start-up company that has just been able to attract capital, it is rarely possible to offer market wages to the key employees. In this situation, it is particularly important that it can offer employees other benefits such as partnership, incentive schemes and options. The tax conditions for this need to be more attractive in order for these start-up and emerging companies to become Swedish export success in the future. Companies should be better able to attract and retain key people than they are today. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is faced with a choice of routes. From the Liberals' side, we are very clear that it will pay better to work, to educate and to take responsibility at work. It should be more profitable and attractive to run a business. This is what creates prosperity and cohesion in Swedish society. Against this stands a red-green government which, on a point-by-point basis, weakens, complicates and impairs the conditions for Swedish industry. We are prepared to take the fight against that policy. We are putting forward in this House a number of offensive proposals for a policy that brings Sweden in the right direction.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-372	Mr President, I would like to Mats Persson is as usual well worded. First of all, I would like to ask you a question. I find it exciting that you too are moving towards reform of the deduction, Mats Persson. I know that you have long been involved in public transport and know the importance of strengthening public transport. I would like to ask the Liberals whether it would be possible to find a common understanding for the next round in which we could create a majority for the reform of the travel deductions. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, today it is a failed system that even the Swedish Tax Agency notes has a tax error of several billions.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-374	Mr President, I would like to I find it very difficult to see that we can reach such an agreement. Daniel Sestrajcic has described very clearly in this speaker's chair a society that I want to combat on all fronts. It is a society that never sees the entrepreneur and never sees that it is people who create the wealth that you highly want to tax in order to redistribute, Daniel Sestrajcic. I don't think you can look at people and businesses like that. With regard to the issue of travel deductions, we propose in our motion that they should be changed in order to better capture rural conditions and the fact that it is there that you really need a travel allowance in order to be able to participate fully in the labour market. In rural areas it is very often about using the car. Illusions or visions that you painted in your post about being able to travel public transport in rural areas, I do not think is realistic. That is precisely why it is very important that we have an attractive travel allowance for people in rural areas. That is what we propose in our motion. We are two parties that have completely different ideological starting points in our view of society. This is becoming very clear in this debate.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-377	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your reply, and I note that Mats Persson has not read the other motions on the deduction of travel expenses. What we write and reserve for is about the same thing. Rural areas will be strengthened. Rural areas should be able to benefit from a travel allowance that favours the possibility to travel in rural areas, while people in urban areas that currently use the travel allowance should not be so favourable. We want an investigation in which we can agree across party boundaries in the same way that we agreed to ensure that we save the non-profit second-hand sector. There, the Liberals and the Left Party agreed on VAT in the non-profit second-hand sector. It wouldn't be so strange if we could agree on that. That is, however, sometimes our task. Of course, we have very different ideological points of departure. However, I would like to note that SKL has been talking for a long time about the need for tax increases in order to cope with the future financing of welfare due to an ageing population and the need for more employees in welfare. This applies whether you want private welfare that Mats Persson wants or public welfare that I and my party want. Is there not a single tax that the Liberals would like to raise to ensure that they meet the challenges of the future? Both SKL and several others state that tax increases are needed. It is not to cope with the refugees who have arrived. This has been needed for a long time, especially in view of the ageing population.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-381	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Sestrajcic and the Left Party are government bases for the red-green government that is now proposing historically high tax increases. My guess is that in the negotiations that the government has waged with the Left Party, the Left Party has not been the ones that have held back the historically high tax increases that are now taking place. It illustrates the view of the Left Party on taxpayers and Swedish companies and how they view business. You get the feeling that from your perspective it is seen as a tax chest that you can use to fund the dreams and wishes that you as politicians have. I have a completely different view of society. It is companies and people who create wealth. Our job as politicians is to give people the opportunity to do this. Then it is extremely important that we have favourable conditions for companies and people. Then the solution can never be to increase the tax on labour and entrepreneurship that is now taking place and that the Left Party is contributing to. It affects people all the time in their daily lives. It's about everything from how much I get to keep from what I earn when I work to how expensive it is to hire someone and what opportunities I have to hire someone to help with cleaning or gardening services in my everyday life. It really is something that strikes people's everyday lives and where the Left Party is now making a major contribution to the deterioration of people. The solution is never to routinely raise taxes. The aim must be to have more taxpayers. This is how we strengthen the welfare and financing of welfare in the long term. I have a very specific question for Daniel Sestrajcic. If it is now important that people work in welfare and that people work to help in welfare, why do you make it more expensive for the public sector to hire older people who want to help in welfare and work as a teacher or nurse and who have passed the 65-year limit? Why is it so important to increase the tax rate for them and make it more expensive to hire?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-386	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to increase everyone's ability to build up equity and manage according to their own ability. Saving is also an important part of the security and independence of people and families. The Christian Democrats want to work towards a tax policy that gives every wage earner a substantial surplus of their salary when the tax and fixed expenses are paid. It is obvious to see your own savings and your own money in your wallet as welfare. Independence should, as far as possible, also consist of being able to decide for yourself what you want to use your own money. Too high taxes for the individual remove that possibility. The main objective of tax policy is to finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. Taxes shall be levied in a manner consistent with overall economic policy objectives. It is important to realise that the revenue generated by our companies and distributed in the form of wages to employees is primarily the individual's funds and not public funds that should easily be collected at the treasury. Increasing taxes on the individual must be cautious. We really need to think about the necessity and why such a measure is being taken. The individual's right to control his own money is an important foundation stone. Job creation is also an important foundation stone for the individual. It is about the feeling of being needed, the ability to support oneself and routines in everyday life. The list can be made long for anyone who has a job. Jobs are created by companies that grow and hire. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenue, which in turn finances our common welfare. It is important to create long-term conditions for a more innovative and creative Swedish business community. Options and other share-related incentive schemes are used as a way to attract and retain key employees in companies. The programmes will enable staff to benefit from the future economic development of the company. However, the tax framework on employee options is very complex today. Uncertainty about the amount of taxation can lead many companies today to refrain from giving their employees employee options. We Christian Democrats believe that this makes it difficult for entrepreneurs at an early stage to attract the necessary skills. Properly used, employee options can create incentives for experts and other key people to work in young and promising companies. Developed use of options could therefore play an important role for companies at a specific stage. These are growth companies that do not yet have any income, but must finance wages from the capital invested by the owners in the business. In order for the Swedish business environment to continue to be favourable, changes, simplifications and clarifications of the regulations regarding employee options are required. The clear aim must be to simplify the use of options as an instrument for attracting and retaining skills, especially in innovative and growing companies. Sweden is an elongated country, and not all of us are able to use public means of communication as the inhabitants of the big cities can do. There is a reality outside the big city that means that you have no other real alternatives than the car. We must then have a policy that does not force people to set the car. The Christian Democrats want to make life easier in rural and sparsely populated areas. We therefore want to improve and facilitate the possibilities for work commuting by increasing the mileage allowance for work trips by an additional SEK 1.50 per mile. The whole of Sweden should live, even in the possibility of being able to live and work in rural areas, so an increase feels very necessary. Some systems that are built do not work at all, and of course they should be scrapped. On the other hand, it is sometimes possible to find systems that work and that people use with advantage. The RUT deduction is a system that makes people happy to use it and thus creates new jobs. New companies have grown up and new markets are establishing themselves. Most people would probably say that you should continue along the road and build on what works. So do we Christian Democrats. Many get their first job in some part of the service sector. It is therefore important that the services market should be allowed to continue to expand. This will have positive effects both on time-pressed families with children and the elderly as well as on people in need of work. The RUT deduction has enabled a completely new labour market and prevented undeclared work. Making changes now within RUT, as the government has done, will open up a black market again and cause concern so that new companies will not be created. Then you should know that you do it at a time when Sweden needs many new jobs. This cannot be acceptable. Let people help each other by creating jobs for a cheap money! The right to deduct gifts to non-profit organisations should be reintroduced. Individual organisations are not only irreplaceable as implementers of Swedish state aid but also very important because they give us individuals an opportunity to take responsibility for the development of the world. Last year we received far more asylum seekers to Sweden than we had estimated. We could see that public services were being strained and that municipalities showed problems in solving their tasks in a good way. There are probably many of us who saw how non-profit organizations took responsibility in our municipalities that is admirable. We should and should be extremely happy that there are individuals and organisations who will be there when what is most needed in society. How do we thank these organisations? Well, the government abolishes the right to deduct donations to non-profit organizations. It's quite similar to the RUT deductions we talked about earlier, that is, when something works, you should keep it and develop it – not the other way around. The gifts to non-profit organisations increased in Sweden, and this gives these organisations a greater opportunity to help in the world. But obviously, good-hearted things are not something the government wants to reward. With these words, I would like to support the Alliance's joint reservation 6 and the Christian Democrats' reservation 17.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-403	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by endorsing the committee's proposals in the report. In recent days, much has revolved around Olof Palme in connection with the 30th anniversary of the terrible deed he was subjected to. Sunday was a special day. Speeches have been quoted. Documentaries have been re-dispatched. New programs have been produced. Many memorial meetings have been held. Leading words we have heard have been solidarity, security and equality. They were spoken by Olof Palme but not only by him but by a whole labour movement that from its beginning tried to shape a society that is more equal and thus freer for all people. Reforms have been the tool, and fiscal policy has been the means to achieve the goal of greater equality. When production has grown, as productivity grows, refines and develops, income increases, and it has been allocated in a reasonable way to increase private consumption and freedom for individuals and families, but also for the common. Taxes have increased. Other societies, which allow each one to pay, contain deep divisions. When injustice is great, fear is great. The poor have no faith in the future, and everyday life is marked by anxiety and fear. But fear also carries the wealthy, entrenched behind their high fences. An equal society, on the other hand, creates trust between people. Tage Erlander's so beautiful words that we need a strong society so that people don't have to be weak are still valid. Thus, the welfare state is redistributive and fair. The political right has a starting point which is quite the opposite. They are fixated on tax as a goal, and they are obsessed with tax reductions at all times. When the labour movement first formed and fought for universal suffrage to have access to instruments to change society, we had a tax burden equal to the 8% of GDP. Every increase was fatal, said the Moderates, and so they have continued to a tax burden that has been somewhere around 50% before the major cuts and tax cuts have been made. Mr President, I would like to The right has always said that taxes threaten freedom. Ultimately, it has been felt that the welfare state has become too extensive. In the eight years we were led by a moderate-dominated bourgeois government, we had tax cuts of 140 billion. However, job tax deductions did not reduce unemployment. There are still imbalances in the economy. I have put together all the bourgeois motions for the report. All in all, you want to reduce taxes by another 68 billion. I repeat, Mr President: 68 billion. These are dramatic cuts in the local government sector and in health care. It is certainly a question of the deterioration of unemployment insurance and health insurance. That is what the Swedish people will have to wait if you return to the government. These are clever, fluffy and innovative new tax cuts. Now you will also get reduced tax if you like to sail, ride and play golf. Those costs shall be made deductible. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a few questions to the bourgeois parties as a whole. Firstly, do you think that there is a link between tax collection and the financing of welfare? Secondly, did the so-called job tax deductions reduce unemployment? Thirdly, and here I am addressing the Moderates in particular: what level of taxation do you think is reasonable? What's your dream goal? When does the sun shine at its best? What level should we put the tax on? Mr President, I would like to The government year of the bourgeois parties was marked by tax cuts and deteriorations for the common people. In addition, we now want to legislate on wage cuts. Today we are pursuing a different policy. It is true that the Social Democratic-led government has raised a number of taxes in order to cope with welfare, develop solidarity and achieve greater equality. I note that this policy has actually led to record growth and lower unemployment. The Swedish model is about full employment, good wages and working conditions and a redistributive welfare. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats are going to fight for this model.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-419	Mr President, I would like to Let me first thank Peter Persson for his speech. It was an amazingly good and important content. In fact, I will admit that when I was new to the Tax Committee, I looked at parliamentary debates where Peter Persson spoke, and he always touched on important issues that I can fully sign up to. The ambitions described by Peter Persson are important and reasonable. However, I do not think that the Social Democratic-led government quite dares to go as far as it should dare to go. I would like to begin with the famous RUT issue, which the Moderates, in particular, but also all other bourgeois parties, love. Those of us who come from the labour movement know that general welfare policy should prevail in society. General welfare policy is reasonably based on general subsidies and services, not on deductions. They all benefit, and it will not be a small, well - paid clique that gets a share of them instead of the low - paying ones. This is about what society we want to create and what kind of jobs we as a state or taxpayer want to fund. So I'm talking about the RUT deductions. The question is also why low-paid people should be disadvantaged and high-paid people should benefit. The Left Party has a proposal that we remove the RUT deduction and instead increase the child benefit by SEK 180 per month. I wonder why the Social Democrats are not prepared to comply with this proposal.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-424	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Sestrajcic illustrates a social injustice. It is quite correct that RUT does not contain a clearly equal element. Anyone listening to the radio could hear the brilliant program Travel in the RUT country of Randi Mossige-Norheim-Norheim. She describes how the commuter train to the rich municipalities is taken from south of Söder to work there. She interviewed people who went there. Randi Mossige-Norheim-Norheim remarked that they work and work, and she wondered if they had someone coming home to clean them up. They raised their eyebrows astounded. They had not even imagined such a thought. That's why the government has removed the worst of them, such as homework help-RUT. It was totally unreasonable for only high - paying people to be able to pay extra aid for their children's education and improvement. The bartender with the imaginative drinks has disappeared from the RUT. I note that the reform is not equal in its design and execution, but we have removed the worst of the scars.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-428	Mr President, I would like to Peter Persson describes in a good way how unequal this reform is. It's a good thing we've removed the worst of them. Unfortunately, we only managed to reach about 100 million in savings because the government did not dare go any further. At the same time, the government, together with the bourgeois parties, has agreed to raise the RUT deduction by 500 million. Another aspect is, of course, the question of why those who live south of the South and who go to the rich to clean their homes via the tax should also finance a deduction for the rich. It doesn't make any sense. The Social Democrats should speak more clearly to Peter Persson's voice and say that the RUT deduction will be abolished and removed. Now I hear rather that the RUT deduction should be extended and consolidated. Another issue is the need for increased taxes and income to finance our common welfare. Peter Persson clearly talks about equality policy as a foundation, at Olof Palme, in the labour movement, in the Social Democracy. It is important to emphasise equality. But we know that tax collection needs to be increased. What taxes might the Social Democracy intend to raise? What deductions can the Social Democracy envisage lowering in order to achieve the objective and tighten the distribution policy? Even if we work together on the budget and do many good things, we are not moving fast enough. What taxes can the Social Democrats consider raising? What deductions can you consider lowering in order to tighten the distribution policy in the Swedish state budget?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-433	Mr President, I would like to The main strategy of social democracy – the government – is, of course, that more people in work generate increased income. The growth that we are seeing today in the Swedish economy is essential. We cannot negotiate which taxes should be increased. What we have said on the part of the Social Democrats is that the tax system needs a review. We don't remember that wonderful night anymore. The tax system changed after that night, undesiredly, to benefit those with higher incomes. No doubt that is the case. As a result, gaps have increased. We do not have a uniform VAT rate, which is considered by many to be the most reasonable. I believe, of course, that a tax redistribution against environmentally harmful activities is a reasonable development. But our main point of departure is to have a fair and solidarity-based tax system where tax is paid after viability.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-436	Mr President, I would like to Peter Persson recognizes. It's an EPA cassette that we've been hearing since Palme's time. It was 1986 Palme disappeared. I'm sorry to hear that. But now it's 2016, and it looks a little different than it did in the early 80's. I note that Peter Persson is appalled by these terrible job tax deductions that the Alliance carried out during its eight years in power. At the same time, I can see that the Social Democrats did not say no to a single job tax deduction. It's a little fascinating. Today, too, there are no proposals to remove any of the job tax deductions. Perhaps it is because Peter Persson also realizes that the job tax deductions have led to more people being employed. Most of the expert bodies have landed around 130 000 more employed with job tax deductions. It has simply paid off from subsidies to work. Peter Persson continues in the same spirit and talks about social divides. But what is the biggest gap? Well, it's the one between those who have a job and those who don't have a job. Even the Employment Service's own Director-General is concerned that, with the current policies, we will have gaps that are so large that they cannot be bridged for a long time to come. I'm very worried about that, too. I would like to ask Peter Persson if he believes that there will be more or fewer jobs with a halved RUT deduction, more or less 65-year-olds who choose to work longer if the special payroll tax is introduced and more or less who go from benefits to jobs if it pays less. Will it be more or less hours worked if it pays less to work, take more responsibility or educate yourself?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-441	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to say that the halving of RUT affects 1% of those who use the system – and it is a small minority of the Swedish population that has economic opportunities to enjoy this system. No, Helena Bouveng, you remember wrong. The Social Democrats in Parliament have said no, no, no, no and no to the five job tax deductions. There are your friends: the Swedish Democrats. You have them as friends in both fiscal and labour market policies, in policies aimed at wage earners. In fact, unemployment – which is the reasonable measure; employment is always increasing as the population increases – increased in eight years from 260 000 to 400 000. You denied people conversion and education and locked them in long-term unemployment and with Sweden's largest employer, Phase 3. We'll take that away. Instead, we are re-establishing a labour market policy that provides people with training opportunities and transition opportunities. We are reinventing a business policy in which politics, academia, industry and trade unions work together to achieve development. I am pleased to say that growth and unemployment are already evident.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-446	Mr President, I would like to Peter Persson calls 668 000 buyers a minority of Sweden's population. He usually claims it's some kind of upper-class market. We can now see where RUT services are increasing most. It's in places like Sorsele and Dorotea. It is among those with incomes of between 22 000 and 26 000. It is ordinary families with children who try to make their everyday puzzles go together. It is an ordinary family that tries to enable both the man and the woman to take on work, make a career and work more hours worked. We think that's a good thing. At the same time, it provides opportunities for people to get their first job in their new country. Peter Persson talked about denying people a new job. But who is actually denying people a new job? Yes, it's the Social Democrats. 20,000 new jobs have been created in a whole new industry. Had the RUT ceiling been maintained, growth would have had a potential for an additional 16,000 new jobs. In other words, the Social Democrats deny 16 000 newly arrived people a whole new job. What does Peter Persson have to say to those who still get to stand on the platform when the train leaves?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-451	Mr President, I would like to For me, almost 10 million is more than 600,000. It is not the entire Swedish people who use RUT. Shall I tell you, Helena Bouveng, which municipalities are totally dominant? It is Danderyd, Lidingö, Vaxholm, Nacka, Täby, Lomma, Vellinge, Kungsbacka, Sollentuna, Ekerö– municipalities with people with very high incomes and good living standards. There is hardly any unemployment at all. You say, with your argument about RUT's promised country, well then, we are subsidising down to 90 percent. You only have to pay 10%. Then I guess everyone would get a job. But is that the society we want? I don't want that community. Now we have made a compromise. We've removed the worst of the scars. But to say that some people, those who have now come to Sweden, will take these jobs! Why should the doctor from Syria not work at the hospital in Jönköping? Why shouldn't the teacher be in school? Why do you have as your starting point that people who are newly arrived in our country are predestined to go to Danderyd and Lidingö and perform subsidised domestic help? It's not like that for me. They must have education and equal opportunities to be in our society.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-457	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Peter Persson a little bit about the gift deduction which has now been removed and which we propose to reintroduce. Not long ago, the government has received an investigation into civil society conditions. I assume that both me and Peter Persson think that civil society has the potential to expand in Sweden and that civil society is an important foundation in our community building and an important foundation in the idea that the world outside Sweden also needs help and support. My view is that your removal of the gift deduction means that non-profit organisations will receive less support and help from ordinary individuals, that the opportunity for Sweden as a nation to help other countries will decrease and that the people who are trapped in other countries will have less opportunity to get help from us. I also think that Peter Persson shares my view, that is, that the world is bigger than Sweden. We have a responsibility for all the people around the world. If non-profit organisations can help there, I think Peter Persson would also think it would be very good. Now the government believes that you are best placed to decide who should have these contributions; it is probably not the ordinary individual person. I think that the individual with his heart should be able to give to the non-profit organization they think is best suited, not the government. I wonder if Peter Persson does not agree with me, that is to say that we can change back so that we have a gift deduction.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-462	Mr President, I would like to Social democracy, of course, believes that non-profit society, peoples' movements, have a special place in our country, and people's movements should be given good conditions. Not least the big investment we are now making in the sports movement is about this. But let me put it this way: It is as big when someone with scarce circumstances gives 10 crowns in the collection as when it with richer possibilities gives 10 000? It is the spirit of solidarity that should be there, not that you should also have the support of society when you have good means? I really hope that those who give to different organizations-- I myself belong to those who do-- are not affected by the gift deduction. I have not allowed myself to be influenced by it or even considered it. Surely my solidarity and that of others is not in the fact that others should be involved in paying for it by allowing us to deduct it? Should every social benefit and every good thought of a person lead to tax deductions, we would receive so much tax that we did not get any tax at all into society.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-466	Mr President, I would like to It is noted that the nonprofit-making gifts have been increased by the gift tax deduction. People have discovered that they can choose which organisation to provide grants and thus also support from society by making tax deductions. I think it is good for a society that it stimulates what is good, that is, what we want to see. We want to see that people have good hearts and that they look beyond Sweden's borders and help other people. I cannot see that it helps Peter Persson in the Riksdag to decide where the contributions should go instead of the individual doing so. That's where the dividing line goes. You want to decide where the contributions are going. I think that the individual person should decide that. There's a huge difference. If you decide for yourself where the money should go, maybe you give a little more. The gift tax credit is an incentive that allows you to take that step and give a little more. There are no studies that say that other grants or gifts have been reduced, i.e. those for which no deduction can be made. The total gift in Sweden has become larger, but it is now decreasing. And Peter Persson thinks that in the Riksdag he should decide over this instead of the individual person. I can't understand that idea. It would be better if we reintroduced the gift tax credit.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-470	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Swedish people's tendency to give gifts increased over time, and I think it is of great importance. A majority of the people in our country have a humane and solidarity-based view of migration. It has affected, and it is gratifying. If KD and Larry Söder believe that human solidarity, humanism, is best served by a tax deduction, it is a thin solidarity. Solidarity must be borne by the fact that we can give up and also make some sacrifices precisely because we are humanists and think in solidarity and do not have coffee after a further tax deduction? That is my position, Mr President.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-472	Mr President, I would like to In this report on income tax, Sku16, we deal with no less than 140 motions. Several of them are good, and the government works with them in different ways. However, some of them are not at all good, and if they were to be implemented it would be a dangerous road for Sweden. The best example of proposals not to be implemented is the Swedish Democrats' proposal to introduce co-taxation for married couples in Sweden. Co-taxation was abolished in the 1970s. It was one of the reforms that has reduced economic inequality, although of course it still exists. In almost all cases, it meant that women who started working received very high marginal tax even at low incomes. When co-taxation was removed, it began to pay better to work. The fact that the Swedish democrats are dreaming back into a housewife society should perhaps not surprise us. I am pleased that today there is a broad consensus that women's economic emancipation is something that is desirable. We still have a lot to do and more steps to take, but we're going to take them forward, not back. Mr President, I would like to There is increasing talk of the need for a new tax reform. This may seem paradoxical, because the discussions emphasise the importance of greater simplicity, but many of the proposals, on the contrary, involve changes and increased departures from the existing system. The Green Party has been positive and not opposed to reviewing a new tax reform, but it all depends, of course, on the entry and content of such a system. It is interesting to note that several parties now have proposals for green tax exchange. They want to make it more expensive to destroy the environment and instead reduce taxes on labour. This has also bearing on the discussions about including more things in the RUT deduction. This will be debated in later reports. It is about more simple things being included. Also on the housing side, there are important issues to review in order to promote new production and also in order to make effective use of the existing stock. Some of these issues lie within the tax system. Changes were made by the previous government, which contributed to reduced mobility in the housing market. Among other things, the removal tax was increased to finance reduced property tax. Housing policy talks are now taking place between the parties, and I hope that a broad majority will be able to agree on reforms that benefit everyone in this country who is in urgent need of housing. It is also gratifying to see that there are several proposals that the Left Party draws attention to, but also others, regarding changing deductions and harmful subsidies in a more climate-friendly direction. The travel allowance is currently designed in such a way that it pays to use a car instead of public transport. This approach to tax policy is not desirable. Several of our neighbours have made changes in order to become more transport neutral and thus not disadvantage public transport. There are many other measures in this area that it is worth reviewing. It is a very important issue and something that the government has said in, among other things, the Government Declaration: that environmental governance effects should be strengthened. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-483	Mr President, I would like to Rasmus! First of all, I would like to thank you for the motion you and Karin have brought. It's awesome, I'd say. It's really good. I think it is a pity that it is so rigidly treated in committee and that you have not got the Social Democrats to approve it with you. But we can see this as a start to a common policy whereby the Green Social Democracy is also jumping on the train and that we are making the necessary changes to counteract the harmful effects of the travel allowance that exists today. When the Liberals remove the blindfolds around the other, they might be able to jump on this train too. But the most important thing to discuss with you today, I think, is the RUT deduction. The Green Party has unfortunately made a shift around the RUT deduction and is now in favour of it. Then I have a few questions for you. Do you believe in general welfare policy? If you believe in general welfare policy, I wonder: can the RUT deduction really be part of it? Is it reasonable that the richest ten percent, who use the RUT deduction most, can use 1 billion of this extra contribution, as it actually becomes to the very richest? Is it reasonable for low-income people to finance the rich through their tax contributions? Is it not time to abolish the RUT deduction and instead invest in productive investment or jobs in the public sector?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-486	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear that Daniel Sestrajcic appreciates the motions that I and others from the Green Party have written. I have respect for the Left Party's position in Swedish politics, where you historically stand on your edge, think the right things and follow your party book but do not compromise and negotiate. There are advantages to such an approach. When you go out on the street in Malmö on May 1st and see the demonstration train of the Left Party you can get the picture that it is the supporting party, because in the street parliament the Left Party is strong. But we have a different strategy in my party. We try to get along and rather take a step forward than think right and stand by the side. It is a good thing that more parties are pushing forward on the issues of green tax exchange, abolishing environmentally harmful subsidies and other things. The government has taken several steps, but there are more things that need to be done. Then there is the RUT deduction and whether we believe in the general welfare. Yes, we believe in general welfare. We're going to have a community where we pay for things in common. At the same time, we must give greater benefit to renewable production. What an extended RUT deduction can mean is that the service sector can become stronger. We must move towards an economy where we are increasingly recovering things and not just having material production that Daniel is looking for.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-489	Mr President, I would like to It is always more fun to say that you want to compromise and negotiate. I see above all that the Green Party has taken a step forward in relation to its views on migration policy, Vattenfall and so on, for example. There you have really managed to influence and move in the right direction. But I'm going back to the RUT deduction. You say you believe in general welfare policy. But the RUT deduction is a departure from general welfare policy. In general welfare policies, where they could benefit everyone, this money could be much more efficient and be used to create new jobs or to provide poor families and other families with a supplement to the cash register that can be used for services or other types of purchases that they might want to do, for example. Rasmus! The RUT deduction is used today by the richest in Danderyd, Lidingö, Vellinge and Lomma. It is a disparate and disparaging policy. It is a policy that favours the wrong development of society. Why should the poor, through their tax payments, finance the cleaning services of the rich? Then why do they have to go to the rich and clean up? It is not a general welfare policy. It is a return to the development of an equal society. Why is the Green Party in favour of that?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-493	Mr President, I would like to I have no problem defending the fact that we halved the ceiling that has been in place for RUT services. Such a change was justified. At the same time, however, we have seen that the reform has created more jobs, and that is not a disadvantage to the groups that have the opportunity to get such a job. On behalf of the Green Party, we want a focus in which we are more likely to recover, repair and benefit the services sector, which does not have the environmental impact of material production. I know that the Left Party has another entrance to these questions. But that is how we see it, and we think it is good that we can now have more sectors included in this.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-495	Mr President, I would like to It was an exciting duel between the Left Party and the Green Party, two parties that are actually interdependent in getting the Red Green Government budget through. Rasmus Ling! I think you usually have many wise posts. I think your contributions today on green tax exchange are incredibly interesting. Then it should also be interesting to hear if you can talk about a green change in consumption. That was Rasmus Ling pretty much on the inside. I believe that both Rasmus Ling and I are very aware that, in order to keep the economy and our jobs going, we need strong domestic consumption. In fact, this is how we have managed the Swedish economy over the last eight years. It has also meant that a great deal of consumption has gone from goods to services. The goods are not always produced in Sweden. But when you make a purchase of the service the service is actually produced in Sweden. It is incredibly important, and it is also incredibly environmentally friendly. Rasmus Ling talks about recycling. N i has tabled a proposal for reduced VAT, I think, on repairs. It's about the same line as a RUT deduction. I think Rasmus Ling gave some air to it, but I wonder: How does the Green Party view the halving of the RUT deduction that is now being implemented? Rasmus Ling said it was justified. But is it really justified to change in a sector that is incredibly new? It is a very immature sector that is emerging. When I meet many of the RUT companies, they just say that they actually want to develop environmentally friendly services. Then I wonder, Rasmus Ling: Is it really justified at this point in time, when you could create 16 000 jobs that are also good for the environment, to make that change?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-500	Mr President, I would like to It's fun to hear from different political parties how wise views you have. However, I find it sad that the Moderates were not able to take several real steps in all the years of government power in terms of environmentally harmful subsidies and the conversion that we actually need. The only year we saw a reduction in CO2 emissions during the last parliamentary term coincided with the financial crisis, when we had a bnp rate of 5% in a single year. It does not work with a shift that lowers the lip only when we have an economic crisis. This must develop along with increased employment and green economic growth. Unfortunately, it was a missed opportunity from the previous Moderate Government. I do not think, as I said earlier, that it is difficult to justify the reduction in the maximum amount of RUT that was made. Few people were affected, and we have also excluded older people from the reduction. Those most in need of additional services are therefore not covered by the changes. Of course, it's exciting to see the development – how it can be in the future with different sectors. If we are to maintain in future a positive development for the country with increased employment and also do so in line with the fact that we are making an environmental transition, the services sector needs to be a little stronger. We must, of course, follow the way things are going in the future.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-505	Mr President, I would like to Now the Green Party is in the government and has every opportunity to take measures that are good both for the economy and for the environment. As I said in my previous speech, the RUT sector has all these opportunities. You create a better environment, you give people their first job and you increase equality. It should be a perfect reform to maintain for the Green Party as well. Rasmus Ling maintains that only 1 or 2 per cent of the RUT deduction falls on the ceiling. But we can also see what changes are doing in a new industry. In Denmark these changes have been made, and twice they have gone to waste. The same is true in Finland. The risks are therefore incredibly great when changes are already being made in this immature industry. Rasmus Ling should also realise that there are great risks. He may not see this, but I ask again: has the Green Party been prepared? Do you really think it is justified to make such a risky change in the RUT deduction in terms of both jobs and less gender equality and the environment?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-508	Mr President, I would like to It is true that in other countries there has been a hack into the curves when changes have been made. Nevertheless, developments have stabilised over time; we have seen this in Denmark, for example. The great risk – which has also emerged when I have spoken to the industry – does not apply to the changes themselves, which are quite small. Rather, it is precisely this that changes are made that cause uncertainty. It also picks on by opposition politicians like Helena Bouveng from the Moderates painting a picture that the changes are so much bigger than they have been. The halving that has been done has had no consequences other than in the very highest income level and for those who have made deductions of over $25,000 a year. That's 1%. So the changes that have been made have been very limited. It has also been about the things that have been mentioned before, such as bartender deductions and the like. Of course, we will have reason to follow how this will develop in the future.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-512	Mr President, I would like to Rasmus Ling, in his speech, clearly saw reason to attack the Swedish Democrats for a motion on co-taxation which is dealt with in the report. He seemed to have rather strong views on this, and expressed some preconceptions. I want to start by correcting Rasmus Ling. We are not proposing the introduction of co-taxation. We propose to explore the possibility of introducing voluntary co-taxation. It should therefore be based on voluntary activity, depending on whether the couple in question consider it beneficial for themselves or not. This is something that is already happening in Germany today. Rasmus Ling seems to feel that if you introduce such a thing, or even approve of a motion to investigate the matter, it will lead to increased injustice. I do not know whether he also mentioned increased female oppression, reduced female liberation and so on. So does Rasmus Ling mean that the women in Germany are more oppressed and have less freedom? With regard to voluntary co-taxation – would Swedish women voluntarily choose to restrict their freedom? Rasmus Ling is happy to develop his preconceived ideas a little more.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-516	Mr President, I would like to All the progress that has been made in terms of gender equality in Sweden has been the result of urgent and determined work. Every small step that has been taken has been opposed by conservative forces. It is a long way back in history when there was a struggle for equal suffrage and when women were to be declared adult. It has also been much closer in history; when childcare was extended in the latter part of the 20th century, there were many who did not think it was a good thing. But it has provided and created the conditions for economic liberation that we are seeing today. The abolition of co-taxation was also an important step in this. The Swedish Democrats want to go back. You talk about freedom of choice, volunteering and so on. But this is not about freedom of choice anywhere. It is about that the Swedish Democrats want to go back to a 50s society where the women were at home and took care of the home. It is better today, at other times, when we want to take steps forward instead of backwards and when we want to eliminate the economic inequality that still exists.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-519	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is a question of investigating the matter. SD wants to go back, says Rasmus Ling. No, it's not about going back. With regard to what we want to investigate, we have also pointed out in the motion how it should be done and what direction the investigation should take. Firstly, it is a question, for example, of whether it is voluntary, which means that one can choose. Secondly, it means that the couples who choose to co-tax should also share pension provision, which should reasonably lead to greater equality if both members of the couple now earn different amounts. There are also calculation examples as to how it can be unfair as it is today. If two persons in a marriage earn SEK 400,000 each, they will have to pay less tax than if one earns 600,000 and the other 200,000. This means that higher income distribution is taxed in criminal terms. This is really the main reason why we are putting forward the proposal for it to be investigated. Rasmus Ling even seems to want to accuse us of restricting people's freedom simply by proposing an investigation. Doesn't Rasmus Ling himself see that there may be points to this? There may be a reason why it exists in Germany, and there is unfair taxation as it is today.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-523	Mr President, I would like to No, this is not something to be investigated, because it is nothing to be done. If you were to have a co-taxation, it would create lock-in effects. Women, who today usually earn less than their husbands, would receive higher marginal tax, and that would create lock-in effects. Only a few generations ago married couples in Sweden were often in practice prevented from dividing for economic reasons. Previously, women were economically dependent on their husbands. We have moved away from this, and that is something that is positive. The direction we should continue to take is to increase economic equality – not to create greater obstacles to it in the way that David Lång and his party think we should do.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-525	Mr President, I would like to When Sweden joined the EU, we were largely given a new customs legislation, because the European Union is largely a customs union. A common customs policy has been one of the cornerstones of the internal market. Customs duties within the Union are fully harmonised. This means that the legislation is the same in all Member States. An important objective of the legislation has always been to maintain a balance between control of goods and smooth import and export. Too rigid and complicated rules that increase the administrative burden on companies can have a major impact on Sweden's and the EU's economy. The new law that we are debating here today will take effect from 1 May 2016, and changes are proposed that are needed to introduce the Union Customs Code that is mandatory to implement in each Member State. This means largely that future customs operations will be carried out electronically. The Moderates and the Alliance have no objection to the majority of the proposal. We also know that the Swedish Customs Agency has been working for a long time to adapt to the Union Customs Code through information and workshops with different actors on the upcoming electronic customs management. I know the Customs Department is doing an amazing job. On the other hand, we have comments that there is no estimate of the costs incurred by companies in meeting the requirements for electronic customs treatment. It will therefore be important to monitor the consequences of the application of the law. In particular, it may be burdensome for small businesses to invest in updating computer systems or other electronic systems necessary to meet the new national requirements. We also believe that further comprehensive information efforts are needed for the companies concerned in connection with the introduction of electronic customs. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has increased safety levels, and the international situation has changed and deteriorated. Terrorism has hit Sweden and other countries in our vicinity, and arms regulation is being intensely debated. Combating the smuggling of illegal weapons should permeate all the government's proposals. We therefore consider it worrying that in this legislative matter the Government does not ensure that the Customs Agency is given the power to detain courier items as well as to extend that power in respect of postal items. It is about being able to detain and control illegal goods, in addition to drugs, also weapons. The government should therefore introduce an increased power for the Customs Agency to retain the postal items listed in our accompanying motion and introduce the corresponding power to detain courier items. Heavy consultation bodies such as the Swedish Customs Agency have stated that it is urgent that the Swedish Customs Authority should be given the opportunity to detain courier mail through a postal block and recommended in its opinion that it should have been included in the existing investigation. It is therefore gratifying that the Tax Committee is choosing to decide in accordance with the Moderates' and Alliance's proposal to extend the possibility for customs to detain postal items and that similar rules should also apply to courier consignments. On the other hand, the committee did not choose to go along the line of examining the costs for companies in connection with the introduction of this law. The government states that it is the Union Customs Code that involves costs and not the new customs law. But the outcome will be the same, that is, that it affects our important companies in the country. That is why I support the Alliance's reservation 2.
i-3hJZ1DASbdNo1LPmTXuZ39	Mr President, I would like to At the outset, I would like to support the committee's proposals in the main sections and our reservation 1. Mr President, I would like to The new customs code is a consequence of the fact that the EU is a customs union that has developed and continues to develop for a long time its work to improve the efficiency of customs management, not least on an electronic basis. In this case, it is a question of introducing, in the first instance, a new common Union customs code and more effective electronic procedures in connection with it. The proposals in the proposal are intended to provide Sweden with the legal basis for managing the new procedures and conditions resulting from EU Regulation No 952/ 2013, which establishes the new Union Common Customs Code. It is a major process of change that has been going on for a long time throughout the EU. Sweden is at the forefront of this process, and we can thank an active and well-functioning customs service for that. Perhaps the most important change involves a major shift to electronic procedures, which will have many positive effects on customs administration. So far, this is a good bill and a good bill. It is a good starting point for intergovernmental trade cooperation, which was the EU's main focus from the beginning and which it should work to return to being its main focus. However, what is problematic about the government's proposal for a new customs act is that it has not taken responsibility for investigating and proposing a new coherent sanction strategy against incorrect and/ or fraudulent customs handling. This has been explicitly identified in the regulation as an area in which the Member States themselves are to develop and formulate their own rules. This is in itself a consequence of the fact that penalties and sanctions are not part of the EU's mandate in this context at present, although this particular issue is being investigated by the EU bureaucracy at the moment. The penalties provided for in Article 42 of that Regulation shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Nevertheless, both the investigator and the government choose to avoid this issue and delay it in the future. The government comments on this issue in the bill and says: Since the issue of sanctions at Union level is not yet clear, the government makes the assessment that the sanctions in the customs field should be reviewed, but in a later context. This shows that the government has a receding attitude to the whole problem of criminal sanctions in relation to tax and customs offences and does not take this issue seriously. It's very bad. Mr President, I would like to We do not have a better opportunity to modernise the system of sanctions in the customs context than when we adopt a new customs act. This opportunity has been missed by the government. It is regrettable, but unsurprising, because it follows the same line as in the rest of the legislation – ill-considered, slow and ineffective. Unfortunately, that is what we have to do, that is, to come back with a new proposal for new sanctions, because the customs code must be in place as soon as possible. But this must happen at a completely different pace than the government has imagined. This investigation has to start now. It's one of the basics of our reservation. Mr President, I would like to The issue of sanctions and penalties in the event of incorrect or criminal handling in relation to customs declarations is important. It is about maintaining confidence in the system, so that the easiest and cheapest way to act is to comply with the laws in question. There should be good incentives to do the right thing, and it should be expensive and difficult to shoe by acting fraudulently. When the new customs warehouse is launched, these parts, of course, would also have been included in the package. In addition, the issue of sanctions is particularly topical as we discussed the issue of the double-trial ban in tax and customs matters at the last Parliamentary session, proposal 2014/ 15:131. This Decision also addressed the impact of the double-checking ban on customs duties which are constructed in a similar way to the tax surcharge. It has been stated in the preparatory work on this proposal that the tax surcharges and the customs surcharges are to be regarded as penalties and not as an administrative fee or sanction, as the current interpretation of the two penalties states. The perceived view of the tax and customs surcharges within the law enforcement bodies has been established by both the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court and the European Court of Human Rights. The significance of these rulings also shows that there is an urgent need to review sanctions and penalties in this context. It is most remarkable that the government parties have no greater understanding of justice and morality than that they can make themselves miss this opportunity. Mr President, I would like to The law enforcement authorities, such as the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm and the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority, are also critical of the government's failure to address the issue of sanctions. That, if anything, should have led the government to supplement the bill with a sanction section. In dealing with the bill on the double-trial ban, we had a proposal that the tax surcharge should be abolished and that the penalty fine and, in serious cases, imprisonment should instead be tightened up. In this case, with the new customs code, we have quite consistently proposed the abolition of the customs duties and the replacement of a reinforced catalogue of penalties in the legal handling of breaches of customs law. We should not have that kind of arbitrary and legally insecure criminal system as a customs surcharge, but also a tax surcharge and some other things in other contexts. They are condemned with completely different, significantly lower demands for evidence and legal certainty. The risk of innocents being punished is therefore obvious. The Swedish legislation covering tax surcharges and customs duties has meant that Sweden has rightly been criticised in many contexts for dealing with these issues in a legally insecure way. Sweden has even been convicted of violations of the European Convention on Human Rights in relation to the handling of the wrongful amendments. The argument has been that the amendments violate the laws that make it illegal to punish a person twice for the same crime. Criminal penalties shall be imposed by courts where a person has been convicted of having committed a criminal offence. The same legal certainty shall apply to all, and the same legal requirement shall apply to all. That goes without saying in a democratic rule of law. However, the government is pushing the country in the opposite direction. It is clear that it is we in the Swedish Democrats who are the force protecting the rule of law in this Parliament. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we are in the position that we do not have a new sanction proposal in the current legislative proposal, because of the government's choice-driven approach to legal certainty. We have therefore chosen to exercise the motion that the government should be called upon to return as soon as possible with a proposal for reform of the sanctions legislation in this area and that this should mean that the unfair customs duties should be replaced by fines and, in serious cases, prison sentences.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-550	Mr President, I would like to The new tariff which we have to deal with today brings with it a number of effects, not least for the companies concerned. The requirements for digital management and likely requirements for the renewal and updating of electronic systems can impose heavy burdens on small businesses. Digitisation can, and should at best, lead to simplifications for the entrepreneur – it is said. In the long term, it will hopefully also lead to lower costs through, for example, simpler process work. However, any positive benefits in the long term do not deprive the legislator of the responsibility to evaluate the effects of new legislation. I regret that the proposal to measure the costs of small businesses has not won the majority of the committee. Of course, many of the proposals put on Parliament's table each may seem to affect the costs of businesses in a rather small way, or as stated in today's report: once the changes are made, the transition to electronic customs management should mean a profit for companies. But it does not deprive us as legislators of the responsibility to look to the whole and see that ultimately, when each individual proposal and decision is added together, companies risk aggregating greatly increased costs compared to what we in some part may have won. About half of all new legislation has a lack of impact assessment for companies. It goes without saying that having a legislative process that does not take full account of the impact on businesses risks affecting companies unnecessarily. In the end, jobs are affected when costs run out for companies. Companies with a high level of competitiveness are the best means for jobs and growth and are thus a natural goal for regulatory simplification and impact assessments. During the Alliance, the administrative burden on companies decreased. I would like to be self-critical and say that the Centre Party had much greater ambitions and that it did not go at the speed and to the extent that we wished. However, it went in the right direction. It is also difficult to reduce the regulations; for every time you try to get rid of a rule there seems to be someone new, and so you stand stomping in the same place. All the most often comes from European legislation and the EU level, but we are able to produce a great deal by ourselves. For this very reason, it is so important that we make sure that we measure the costs for companies of new legislation and other regulations. It is clear that it affects companies' ability to grow and compete, not least in an international market. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to touch briefly on the committee's announcement of increased possibilities for the Customs Agency to retain postal items and to introduce the corresponding possibility in respect of consignments carried by courier companies. The increased level of security we have in Sweden, as well as the development we have seen and see in our surrounding world – yes, even in our neighbourhood – should in itself urge us to take every opportunity to combat the smuggling of weapons. Only the seizure statistics, to which the motion refers, should in itself make it clear to the government that increased possibilities for so-called postal barriers are necessary. The Center Party strongly underlines the need for increased opportunities for postage lock – both wider, so that it also applies to weapons, and an extension to include courier companies. These measures would significantly increase the ability of customs to limit the import of arms into the country. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the alliance parties' reservation on the impact of the proposal on small businesses.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-559	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we are taking decisions on issues at the lowest appropriate level is something that Christian Democrats consider important. For example, family-level issues, which should be decided at home at the kitchen table and not in the municipalities or for that matter in the Riksdag, can be taken as an example. Anyone who has all the information can make the decision that is best for the entity in question. All families look different, and the most appropriate level in that case is, according to our view, quite clearly in each individual family. Today, however, we are going to decide on a new tariff which will extend across Europe's countries and harmonise as far as possible. When it comes to a customs agent, of course, the most appropriate level is right here in Parliament. As ordinary citizens, it is probably difficult to show any greater interest in the customs act we are now debating. This is the kind of business we expect to work and, hopefully, gives as much potential as possible to take control of the illegal goods that, after all, make their way to Sweden. We Christian Democrats are particularly pleased that this decision will also include the possibility of placing postal barriers on consignments brokered by courier companies. This is a necessity in the search for smuggled illegal goods. On the other hand, we are not as happy with the fact that changes to the new law may entail costs for companies and that this has not been clearly investigated. In particular, it may be burdensome for small businesses to invest in updates and computer systems or new electronic systems required to comply with national requirements. We also believe that extensive information efforts are needed for the companies concerned in connection with the introduction of electronic customs treatment. Otherwise, we in the committee have rather similar views. In so doing, I believe that the only thing I can do is to support the Alliance's reservation No 2.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-564	Mr President, I would like to The new customs law, which is the subject of the case, is not very new in substance. As has been explained earlier, it comes from the new EU Customs Code. What we are actually doing is changing the Swedish laws to make them comply with it and not stand in the way. There are changes in over 30 different teams. Of course, the government will still have reason to follow up on such a major change. Here today, questions have been raised about the follow-up of business costs. We and the government do not believe that this is a big enough issue to be followed up individually and specifically. Two years ago, 99.5 per cent of all customs matters were handled electronically in Sweden. This means that there are very few companies that will be affected by the change at all. In addition, the question is what to do with the data if you take them in. The EU will not change its Customs Code and remove electronic customs management because we find a number of costs for businesses. So there is basically no reason to think about this. It is, of course, unfortunate if companies get extra costs, but it is not in our hands and is not an issue that will change anything. In these words, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the other requests to be rejected.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-570	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Patrik Lundqvist and the Social Democrats. With reference to what we have been aiming for in our reservation, the sanction legislation, the question is simply: when will the proposal for a new sanction law come? Is there a timetable?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-571	Mr President, I would like to As Olle Felten himself mentioned in her speech, this is based on the work that is being done at European level. We do not intend to do a job today to see Europe come up with something completely different that runs over what we are doing, which would mean that we will have to do it again. It will be taken up when the EU has taken its decision. Let's see how long it's gonna take.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-572	Mr President, I would like to This is exactly what I mean by a receding attitude towards sanctions legislation. Article 42 of the Regulation provides that Member States should or should go in and supplement their sanctions legislation and update them for the purpose of the new customs legislation. We don't have to wait a second there. Both the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority have asked very serious questions about why the government does not care about these requests. We have legislation in the area of sanctions that is like a Swiss cheese. You never really know what it tastes like, because we have to deal with unfair litigation. We must do something about this quickly. It has to be done now.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-575	Mr President, I would like to Olle says that we have legislation today that is like Swiss cheese. At the same time, he wants us to expand it with even more holes and to do even more work that we may still have to do again tomorrow. The government, of course, takes the views of the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency very seriously and will come back to this, but in a situation where we know that we will be able to do a good job from the beginning.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-577	Mr President, I would like to Free movement of capital, services and people is the EU's fundament. It is something that its worse in some parts creaks in the joints these days but is still very important to stand up for. Through free trade and an open trade policy, Sweden has historically been able to grow strongly. The issue we are dealing with today, A new Customs Act, is largely about electronic customs handling, something that Swedish companies use to a very large extent. The changes we are about to make today therefore have no drastic consequences for Swedish companies, but in the long term they will have positive consequences at EU level. This is a common European law, and the scope for making national decisions of its own is rather small. There has been a discussion, including in the committee, about the possibility, through postal barriers, of detaining consignments that are mediated by courier companies in order to make the introduction of illegal weapons more difficult. Making the existence of illegal weapons more difficult is essential. That is also something on which we fully agree in committee. It is just as important as limiting illegal drug imports. It is also an issue that the Finnish Customs are actively working on. We know that there is a close link between different kinds of illegal goods and organised crime. This is in line with the work that the government has commissioned the authorities to work together on and prosecute. With this, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-583	Mr President, I would like to Today, we're going to talk about student support. I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservations 5 and 7. The first thing I'm going to talk about is the release. There are many parties here who have talked about precisely the amount of the release and how it could possibly be extended. I've looked carefully, and $1,300 is exactly as much as the free amount is today. That means $1,300 a month. It is therefore about the same as the salary of a mid-term teacher after five years in the profession. We Swedish democrats feel that if you have time for half-time work while studying, it may not be the amount of the exemption that is wrong. Then perhaps it is the education that is wrong, that it is so long that you have time to study half-time while working half-time. We are opposed to that. We can't read points in Sweden just to read points. We're going to read points for it to give something to the profession. The current pensioner system is based on the fact that we will be able to work for 40 years. Previously, it was the 15 best years, now it's 40 years. We cannot see the point of extending studies to lower ages, to increase ages or to extend the time to be studied against what it is today. That should be enough as it is today. We need to get people into work, where they can contribute to their own pensions. Unfortunately, Mr President, if we do not achieve the 40 years, we will be in a crisis in a few years' time, because the guarantee pension that kicks in when the ordinary pension is not enough is taken from the tax funds, not from the funds, which means that the tax funds will be reduced and the welfare will be reduced. We believe that it is more important for people to get to work. Today, in most professions, you can train yourself internally. There are many possibilities here. The Swedish democrats have proposals to ensure that rural areas are not further reduced. One is to work where the rural population lives. We can also see that there is an incentive and a sentence in trying to put forward proposals that make it work in practice. What do we need in rural areas? They are health centres, medical centres, schools and shops. These are the most elementary things to make rural areas work. We have put forward a proposal that doctors should be able to deduct from their study funds if they choose to spend their first years in rural areas. We think it is a good proposal that leads to the growth of the whole of Sweden. This is currently rejected because it is seen that there is no room in the law to change this. Then change the law so that we can do this for the countryside! Today there are many good educations in folk high schools, komvux and the like. Unfortunately, however, the same number of people are totally dismatched. Ensuring that our tax money is used properly and not according to the individual's desire is the basis for many of Sweden's democrats' thoughts and forthcoming proposals. There are many courses that are fantastic, and we want to focus on them. But tax money should not be poured into a black hole where the mismatch is great. The Swedish Democrats propose a degree premium. These are ways to motivate students to apply to today's deficiency professions. Unfortunately, at present, there are many shortages that we need to motivate people to apply for. SD believes that a carrot is much better than a whip in this case. We see no problem with introducing both higher grants and exam premiums for the last year. All roads that lead to more people being motivated to apply to teachers or other shortage professions are viewed positively. However, as a complement, a basic threshold should be introduced so that not everyone can apply for any training, thereby burning some of the years for which they are entitled to apply. Let's set a threshold so that people search for trainings that they can go through. The costs of allocating these motivational money are minimal, while the costs if society does not work can be enormous.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-597	Mr President, I would like to It was time, then, to debate a motion report, and when we debate motions that individual Members have raised during the general period of exercise, the report may feel a little sprawling. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but I call for the winning approval of time only to No. 1. We have a sad statistics on how many motions are actually approved linked to the individual movements, despite the good ideas and the good politics. At the same time, however, it is a question of creating public opinion for various issues. I would like to highlight a few different motions in which the Center Party has written reservations, because we think these should be implemented. The first concerns the amount of the release, which was also mentioned by the Swedish democrats Stefan Jakobsson in his speech. The Center Party has long been pushing the issue of raising the limit on the amount of the release. I do not see the fact that the amount of the exemption would be the limiting factor which calls into question the quality of education and the possible time available for studies and work. The amount of the exemption is a matter in itself. We should encourage job opportunities and take part in the world of work and business and not limit people's ability to run businesses during their studies, for example. Therefore, the Center Party believes that the limit should be raised or simply removed for the loan component. Having incentives not to work goes crazy. It'll be a hill change. The second reservation is that the upper limit of study funds should be increased. We talk a lot about lifelong learning. A number of the major trade union organisations mention different concepts – for example, TCO talks about job-hopping – which is about giving people the opportunity to change direction of their career, get a new education and choose new paths in life. Then the study aid system is an important part so that you have the opportunity to do this later in life. The Centre Party therefore welcomes the possibility of study funding for the elderly as well. After all, there are ongoing discussions about raising the retirement age, and this should be a natural part of these discussions. The third reservation is that a study should be set up to draw up a proposal enabling people with mental disabilities to receive study funding with the higher level of benefit for post-secondary studies. This should be done to improve the financial opportunities for studies at higher education or university of applied sciences for people with intellectual disabilities. Today, for example, teachers can get the higher level of the grant part, and I think it is necessary to also review this possibility for people with some form of intellectual disability. There are important projects going on around Sweden, but it is a pity that they are only run in project form. There should be a better structure for the possibility of studying after upper secondary school. Upper secondary school is very tied up around professional programmes, but there are quite a few examples of people who in different ways and with different forms of support also get the opportunity for higher education. For example, the University of Gävle has run a project that made it possible for people to strengthen their skills and get closer to the labour market. In Örebro there is another project, SV Kulturcollege, which also deals with post-secondary studies – not at a new level but which gives people the opportunity to build on their skills after upper secondary school to get closer to the labour market. We see this as very positive. These were some issues that the Center Party is pursuing in terms of student grants. It is a bit sad that more people are not in favour of this. This applies, for example, to the free amount, because we know that many different party representatives are behind this policy.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-611	Mr President, I would like to About two years ago, the protests and petitions started. Students were rightly cursed by the alliance government's move to reduce the grant part of the study aid by SEK 300. In a situation where more and more young people were forced to take extra jobs alongside their studies and where the economic gaps increased more than in any other OECD country, the right-wing government, led by Anders Borg, felt that taxes for the richest would be further reduced while young students would have a tougher everyday life. After great petitions and protests, the then bourgeois government had to back off. We in the Left Party are very happy about that. We are also pleased that the Alliance did not put a stop to the increase in the study money of SEK 1 000 that was introduced last year. This is proof that when people join forces and fight for their common interests instead of tax cuts for the richest, it can affect governments and parliamentary parties. We hope that all parliamentary parties agree that it is wrong to roll over an increasing proportion of the burden of student funding on the individual student. Fear of increased financial burden can discourage students, especially from families without a tradition of higher education. So let us agree that our young ones need encouragement to study, not whips. All parties agree on a great deal on the issue of study funding. But I would like to highlight what the Left Party has reserved for. It is about the shortage of jobs and the possibility of possibly increasing the number of applicants for these professions. The Left Party has called for the appointment of a Human Resources Commission, tasked with proposing measures and efforts to cope with the supply of human resources in welfare activities throughout the country. One way to increase interest in settling in rural areas is to do what has been done in Norway and which has been very successful, namely to introduce the possibility of writing off student debts for people with higher education degrees who settle in rural areas. The said Human Resources Commission should therefore be tasked by the Government to review the provision of part of the student loan write-off to people who, after completing studies, start working in shortage professions in areas with major recruitment problems. One question that I hope many of the parties can support, even if they do not support the reservation, is that we need to come up with measures to recruit to areas where there is a shortage today. We see the major problems currently encountered in rural areas when it comes to recruiting staff in health care, school and other areas. Then we must all ask ourselves: What can we do to deal with this? I believe that setting up a Human Resources Commission with broad support from the Parliament does not harm to review this issue. It is not only in order to recruit staff, but also because, if we get staff to spread across the country and have more opportunity to recruit into the shortage professions, we can improve our welfare activities around the country. Having said that, I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation 6, concerning paragraph 7.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-622	Mr President, I would like to The starting point of Christian Democrats is that man naturally seeks knowledge. Education and training are crucial for a good society and for people's personal development. Education and training must also meet the labour market's needs for a well-trained workforce. In Sweden, everyone should, as far as possible, be able to realize their dreams. We want everyone to have access to education, and in Sweden we have a unique system because it is free of charge to study. But the study time is associated with the cost of living, and Sweden also has a unique system to protect and be proud of. By reducing economic barriers, all citizens should feel that they have access to education, regardless of the family situation they come from. The study support, both the grant and the loan part, is important in order to be able to pursue an effective education policy. All parts of the study grant, i.e. study grants during upper secondary school studies, grants for pupils with disabilities, apprenticeships and student funding with grant and loan part, will help to equalise the financial conditions of individuals and between groups in society. Mr President, I would like to Today, study funding is available for a maximum of six years, 240 weeks. It is possible to obtain additional study funding under certain conditions. We Christian Democrats believe that it is time to examine whether that possibility should be extended. Limiting studies to a period of six years may, in some individual cases, be counterproductive if it results in students having to cancel important advanced education programmes because funding is impossible. It is high time to examine whether six years is sufficient or whether it would be useful to extend the study-funded time, after special examination, in order to get more people to reach higher levels of education. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about the release, an issue which the Christian Democrats have been pushing for years. The free amount is the amount you can earn at the same time as you receive student funding. The amount of the exemption limits students' access to the work experience that future employers are looking for, which is very unfortunate. A abolished free amount would also enable students to borrow less and thus get lower debts after graduation. The Alliance government raised the free amount, which is a step in the right direction, but the Christian Democrats think that the free amount must be removed completely. The main problem for many young people when it comes to entering the labour market today is the lack of work experience. A combination of work and studies strengthens the link with the labour market. Today, the release has become a salary cap that, together with complicated rules, forces students to count hours to see if it really pays to work. Students who combine work and education risk hitting the ceiling. The Alliance's increase in the free amount is welcome, but it is time to replace this outdated system. It is time to abolish the release. Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of improvements that have been made with regard to students' study social situation, such as the child allowance to mention something, but there is more to do in this area. We Christian Democrats want to enable people to raise their level of knowledge and hopefully find new opportunities in the labour market, including people with some ill health. The social security inquiry proposes some improvements for students, including being able to study despite part-time sick leave. Improvements in this area are something that the Christian Democrats are positive about.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-634	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has one of the world's most comprehensive student support systems. That's good. The study support system should provide opportunities for people to study, regardless of background, economic opportunities and social belonging. The student support will act as recruitment, contribute to a high level of participation in education and to smoothing out the differences in society between individuals and groups. There is also a gender perspective; the student support should act as recruitment for both men and women. Student support should contribute to social justice – everyone should have the opportunity to study. This has been the case for a long time. Study funding should be sustainable, stable over time and have a good socio-economic impact, also over time. The Social Democrats have been pushing this issue for a very long time. In order to make studies possible, you can receive student aid in the form of study grants, enrolment allowances, extra supplements for upper secondary school students, student funds in the form of grants and loans and extra supplements for students with children. Students can also get help with student funding for studies abroad. In 2014, more students than ever studied abroad with means of study. This helps to strengthen Swedish competitiveness in the world. It is particularly important with student support for those who have worked for a few years but who for various reasons want to change jobs or develop themselves further. Without the help of funding studies, very few people would have had an economic opportunity to study, especially full-time. That would have been impossible. Sweden as a nation will compete with a highly educated population, not with low-wage and low-skilled people with limited labour market mobility. Sweden as a nation will compete with people having the opportunity to replenish with education to match the jobs that exist. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats see studies as important for the individual to develop and learn throughout life. Going between studies and work throughout your working life should be possible. There should also be training places of different types to match labour market needs. The Social Democrats invest in knowledge and skills so that the individual gets more ways into working life. At a time of high unemployment, especially among young people, it is important to increase the number of training places and student funding with it. Studies to further develop themselves are meaningful and important both for the individual and for society. In today's society, knowledge is much more in demand than before. This is increasingly important both for the individual and for Sweden's competitiveness. Student support reflects the views of the Social Democrats on knowledge, education and education for all. Throughout the ages, peoples' education and knowledge have been a common thread in the education policy of the Social Democrats, and we shall continue to pursue this policy. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-645	Mr President, I would like to I was curious to hear Lena Emilsson's reflections on the reservation that the Center Party has written about opportunities for people with some form of intellectual disability to get the higher grant part. After all, the Social Democrats have made it possible for some teachers to get the higher part. Since in her speech Lena Emilsson highlighted the importance of everyone's opportunity for education, I would like to hear how the Social Democrats view the opportunities for that group to better conditions for education and to build their skills and thus also get closer to the labour market.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-646	Mr President, I would like to It is a group of people that it is urgent to find some kind of activity after completing upper secondary school studies for. Unfortunately, there are some shortcomings in this area, which has also been highlighted. It is a discussion that we are constantly having. We are trying to find alternatives in terms of places of study, for example, that it should be possible for people with development to have access to higher education in universities and higher education institutions. We haven't got there yet, and the attempt that was at the university in Gävle is now finished, as I understand. That is a pity, because we need more initiatives of this kind. More other initiatives will be needed as well. The study material is also part of this. However, we have not yet got that far, even though we have discussions going on.
i-7MjckaxtVUMvxjj1RHZx8z	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Emilsson, for your answer! I would like to make the issue more concrete. Lena Emilsson says that discussions are ongoing. But is it willing to support the proposal, linked to being prepared to seriously discuss the possibility of the higher benefit element for this group of people? Is it something that Lena Emilsson sees as something that the Social Democrats would like to pursue, precisely this to provide the opportunity for different forms of study? Lena Emilsson mentions the possibility of various types of activities. I would also like to see people coming in different forms of work, so that they feel that they are contributing to their own livelihoods in different ways. As we both know, there are many good projects that you could continue to work on. Therefore, my specific question is: Is Lena Emilsson prepared to think that it is a good alternative to raise the grant part linked to the student loan for people with some form of intellectual disability?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-651	Mr President, I would like to By activities, I mean both studies and work – so that it is clear on that point. We do not have a ready-made proposal for this particular group in the proposal that is on the table. We are therefore not willing to agree to the proposal of the Center Party at the moment. It is an issue that I think deserves more work and more scrutiny. We also have discussions at ministerial level on this issue. This will have to be a later question.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-653	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, who are taking part in the debate in this House. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. We are meeting here today to discuss motions relating to student aid in the UbU10 report. Student support and UbU10 are about far more than CSN and payments, although it is often what the discussions focus on. It is basically about how we support, facilitate and encourage change, development and education. We need that. Sweden and our part of the world are facing major challenges. What are today large, ordinary professions are professions that did not exist 30 years ago. Today's students and students are getting ready for a labour market that we in here really know very little about. New professions are added and old ones disappear. Robotisation, digitalisation and sharing economy are the next steps that will transform our environment, our education and, by extension, our labour market. In this situation, it becomes more important than ever that Sweden strengthens its ability to adapt. Sweden has a long and proud tradition of education and a well-developed university, but when it comes to the conversion capacity later in life we still lack today. If we are to be able to meet the demands of a labour market that is becoming tougher and at the same time meet the need for an ever longer working life in order to maintain the welfare that we all want, we need to develop precisely our adaptability and prioritise it in political work. It has to be easier to change jobs, change careers, re-school and try new ones, to change tracks for those who have drowsed in body or soul, to prune their wings for those who are looking for new challenges in a new stage of life. Mr President, I would like to The new Moderates see and welcome this development. It will happen regardless of what we politicians want or not. Our task is not to debate what jobs will exist in the future, but to ensure that people have the opportunity to change for the new reality. Therefore, in our political work, we choose to prioritise a strengthened adaptability as a step in developing our work line. We Moderates therefore propose in our budget comprehensive measures in a conversion package as a first step. We want to make it easier for more people to change tracks. We do this by increasing the amount of the benefit, raising the age limit for student funds and strengthening the possibility for older people with greater financial responsibility to get more in student funding. Mr President, I would like to There is a great need for adaptability. By opening up economic opportunities for people in the middle of their lives to retrain and do something new, we are not only making it more attractive to change tracks and extend their working lives, but for many we are making it possible at all. With an increased free amount and an increase in supplementary support for the elderly, it will be easier to go to and from studies for those who already have a job. It also makes it easier for those who have a job to continue working during part of their retraining period and to remain in work life. In addition, an increase in the level of freedom strengthens the possibility for many young people to strengthen their link with the labour market. That is why the Alliance significantly increased the amount of the release during the last term of office. We need to continue to do so, preferably with the aim of total abolition. Raising the age limit for study funds will also make it possible to change in the future at ever higher ages. Many in Sweden today work well over 60, some much longer than that. In the future, the hope is that medical capacity will enable us to continue working, be alert and healthy for longer and longer, partly because we need it to fund our joint, partly because people actually like to work and do something sensible with their time. Sweden has a long-term challenge in strengthening our competitiveness. Schools and higher education – and therefore student support – play a crucial role in pushing forward Sweden's positions in the future, but at the same time school and higher education do not act in a vacuum. Mr President, I would like to Labour market policy and taxes also play a role in our competitiveness in the future, and the opportunity for Swedish companies to start, grow and employ staff is what creates the basis for there to be any jobs at all to re-train or train to. Today's government now chooses not to focus on more jobs for more people but instead to implement historic tax increases. There will be increased taxes on labour. There will be especially increased taxes for older people who work – in a situation where we need to work longer and longer. There will also be an increase in the fees for hiring young people in particular, who already find it most difficult to enter the labour market. With such a policy, jobs do not become more. Then they will be less, no matter how we develop our conversion capacity.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-668	Mr President, I would like to It is very gratifying that the Moderates have paid attention and want to prioritise the ability to change. However, I think that the way in which you treat education and student support in the budget is a very bad thing. What you are doing in reality is cutting back on what the government wants to invest in education and student support. The Moderates have a grant for student grants that is 1.2 billion lower. This means that there are very many fewer places to study. Then you will also reduce the possibility of prioritizing the ability to convert. Why do you do that, Erik Bengtzboe?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-669	Mr President, I would like to After eight years with the Alliance is quite clear. Sweden today spends more money on education than we have ever done before. Coming to claim that we are cutting back on education is not only against better knowledge, but it goes directly against the facts. It is true that the Social Democrats are more aggressive than anyone else in wanting to expand what may be called higher education places. It is the same old Social Democratic local policy that we have seen many times before. The only problem is that you completely lack plan and thought for how to use these places. You don't even have an idea. You would rather build empty spaces to show that you are doing something than actually thinking about what the needs are. The truth is, Mr President, that the government has absolutely no policy to strengthen its capacity for change. Higher education places are important. It is part of the opportunity for education later in life. However, it is not in the case of higher education places that it squeezes when it comes to the ability to change, but because the people who are in greatest need of change later in life do not feel that they can afford it or have the opportunity to do so. That is why we need to adjust the amount of the release. That is why we need to make it possible to pick study funds later in life. That is why we need to increase supplementary support for older students, so that they can apply at all. To expand with empty spaces will in reality be an empty promise if there is no one who has the will or interest to search for the places because the government is cheap with the money that would really matter.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-673	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that this is a very strange rhetoric that Erik Bengtzboe is for. You choose not to invest in education when people are unemployed and when the labour market screams for people who should have the opportunity to change their mind in order to take the jobs that exist. There are many people who are unemployed and need to replenish vocational training of various kinds, and they have an opportunity with the policies of the Social Democrats. We arrange places for vocational training of various kinds. We'll arrange a university of applied sciences. We arrange places of higher education that give people the opportunity. To say then as Erik Bengtzboe that we lack a plan for education is really taken out of the air. If there are any who lack a plan for education, it is the Moderates. When you choose to have 1.2 billion lower funding for study funding alone, it speaks clearly. You don't invest in education. Then it may sound good that you want to give priority to adaptability, but in reality you are doing nothing compared to the Social Democrats. There is a great lack of interest in post-secondary education on your part, and I find that very distressing, especially in a situation where Sweden needs to increase its competitiveness towards the outside world and increase the number of people who have the opportunity to take a job. Therefore, I wonder, Erik Bengtzboe: Why do you do this? You're cutting it down. You say that you have a great interest in changing, but you do the opposite.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-677	Mr President, I would like to With the Alliance's budget and the Moderates in power, Sweden has invested a record amount of money in education. We have increased the appropriations every year. Getting it down to us is such a macabre dispute of the truth that I don't know where to turn. We have spent historical sums on education. It is we who have made the historic extension of the University of Applied Sciences. All the places for which the Social Democrats stand in this Chamber and speak warmly come from somewhere. They did not suddenly occur at the turn of the year when you finally managed to get a budget through. Mr President, I would like to Today I have presented three sharp proposals that the Moderates deliver to facilitate the transition later in human life. The response of the Social Democrats has been – nothing. We continue to talk about the extension of the same local policy that was carried out in the 1990s. You still have no idea where these places are going to be. There is still no thought and no plan for how these will facilitate the transition. It simply becomes more of the places we see today, while students warn that the quality of the teacher-led time decreases. Where are these places going to be, one might ask. What kind of quality will it be, and in what way will it facilitate conversion? I have put forward three proposals. The Social Democrats say nothing. They don't see this need. They do not see the challenges we face. We make it easier to study later in life. By increasing the free amount, raising the age limit for CSN and increasing the additional support, we enable more people to reset seriously and not just look for empty places anywhere. It is sad that the Social Democrats do not see the challenges and needs we face in terms of transition. But it is even more serious for Swedish competitiveness that the government chooses not to act.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-682	Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party believe that it is important for higher education to be open and accessible to an increasing number of social groups. A study support system is needed for this. One objective of today's study support system is to contribute to increased recruitment of students to higher education. Another goal is that it will help to give even those with a worse financial background opportunities to study at universities and colleges. Thus, the study facility will help to level out differences and contribute to social justice. This is precisely why we are pleased that the Swedish study funding system provides opportunities for everyone, regardless of the parents' financial conditions, to conduct studies and receive student loans and student grants in the meantime. While it is good education policy and good investment policy, it is also an important issue of equality to safeguard a good study system. Last year, the government added a new objective, namely that the study funding system should be recruiting for both women and men and thus contribute to increased gender equality. It was an important mark that I have also mentioned before. A well-thought-out study system contributes to an increased level of education and knowledge in a society. It also helps to facilitate and stimulate further studies, whether at university level or at previous level. Mr President, I would like to I believe that we in Sweden have one of the best study funding systems in the world, and I think we agree on this. We'll be happy about that. The previous speaker said that the study funding system is not just study funding, student loans and student grants. That is absolutely correct. It is also about so much else about the students' conditions, and the government has done a lot in this area. In order to promote the students' conditions, the government has already announced several reforms. One reform is the investment of 300 million to stimulate the construction of quick student housing. It is more important than ever today to support students through student housing. A second reform is that the government has invested in increasing the number of places of education in folk high schools and thus contributed some funds. A third reform has been to raise the basic level of parental insurance. There are many such reforms that the government has implemented around the students' conditions to support the students. Mr President, I would like to On the red-green side, we recognise the importance of the study funding system and have increased the funding for study funding over the past year by SEK 800 million. We are doing this at a time when the Alliance – as I have explained earlier in the last debate on study funds – made cuts compared to the government's budget, each of them from 1 billion to 3 billion. Investments are important. The reforms that the government has implemented and the reforms that will be carried out by the government in the coming years are to strengthen not only student funding, the loan itself and the grant, but the conditions for students. It is important to broaden recruitment and improve the quality of the education sector.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-690	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your speech, Mr Amin. There are obviously ambitions for the government to continue to develop the Swedish student grant and study aid. I'm glad to hear that. It is not the ambition that is lacking and is in danger of failing in the future. On the other hand, we are working with limited resources and we need to give the best priority to those resources. I wish the government parties the greatest success and happiness in the future. Priority is something that is really difficult. I have a question for Jabar Amin. During the alliance years, contributions to Swedish education and higher education increased to record levels. Sweden has never ever spent as much money on education as we are doing right now. We have also increased in bnp. What if you harden it is the core of welfare – school, education and health care – now accounts for a larger proportion of the Swedish economy than they have in modern times. The Moderates and the Alliance propose continued investment in education. Yet Jabar Amin stands in the speaker's chair in the Swedish parliament and claims that we are pulling down. How does that math go together? If we spend more money than the state budget for last year, we actually increase the funds. Let's bet and don't pull down.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-693	Mr. Iman! Thanks to Erik Bengtzboe! If Erik Bengtzboe had listened carefully, he would have heard that I said it was in relation to and in comparison to the government budget. Just go and look at the budget. Then you can see that all alliance parties – from KD, M, your own party, L to C – want to reduce the grant to student funding. I explained this here a few months ago when we were having a budget debate. The Moderates reduce the grant, or cut, compared to the Government, by SEK 1,250 million. Those are facts. Another fact that must be emphasised is that there has never been so much investment in education in Swedish educational history and has been announced so much for education that we have now announced for 2016. This is an increase of over SEK 5 billion. Not a year during the alliance period did the funding for the education sector increase by so much money. It's important. Investing in education is investment. The answer to your question is that you Moderates cut back on the government budget. Thus, the Moderates invest 1 1⁄4 billion less than the government wants to invest.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-696	Mr President, I would like to There is a huge difference between the different things that Jabar Amin says. To invest less than anyone else does is not to reduce funding. It's not cutting down. You can roll around with how much rhetoric you want from the Green Party. You can try how much clown art – Hä Hä! And "Happyappy"! - as you wish. But that doesn't mean it's gonna happen. That we bet less, you'd be happy to say. You can say that you want to bet even more than we bet and the record bets that we have made. But do not say that we are cutting down and reducing appropriations, because we are not. If you want to do that, you have to do it with the billboard: In comparison with our fictitious budget, as we see whether it goes through Parliament or not, every time you say it. Then I think every government representative and environmentalist will get quite tired of hearing themselves. Mr President, I would like to You still have to stick to some kind of principle. Either we assume that it is today's reality that applies. Then you can bet a sum, and we'll bet a sum. Then you can compare. Who wants to reduce it? Who wants to increase the funding? Who's pulling down? Then you can do it in an honest way. A different option from starting from today's reality is to start from the government budget, the future budget, and claim that it is the reality. Then you can stand and say that everyone else is decreasing compared to it. In such cases, however, no effort is made. If it is the future budget that is the reality, Jabar Amin stands and says that he must not do anything. I think it would be beneficial if we stick to reality and focus on clarifying the dividing lines in Swedish politics in real terms instead of throwing ourselves with clown art to give the impression that someone is cutting back on Swedish education when, during the year of the Alliance, we have increased the funding to record levels. We also continue to do so.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-701	Mr President, I would like to I'll have to invite the people of reality into reality. What I'm talking about is facts, not budget in a few years. What I am talking about is 2016, now today, and what we decided three months ago in December. Those are facts. It's not budget. That's not talking about the future. I am talking about the fact that today we are spending considerably more money than ever on the study funding system. I am talking about the fact that in the decision taken in Parliament three months ago – not the budget for the future – you had 1 1⁄4 billion less than the government wanted to invest in the field of study funding. It's a fact! I'm not talking about the future. I'm talking about today. I am talking about the budget that was adopted, not the one to be adopted. The Social Democrats and the Green Party, in cooperation with the Left Party, have presented a budget bill. We have received support for it. In the field of study aid, you cut back on the proposals we made, namely SEK 1 1⁄4 billion. It is money that is much needed for the students and for the students' conditions. To stand here and distort and talk about the future budget does not hold, Erik Bengtzboe. I'm talking facts, that is, you're betting less.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-705	Mr President, I would like to Good friends in the Chamber from the Education Committee! Surely it is you, above all, who are gathered here today. I am one of those who do as you do, which raises motions. I exercised in autumn 2014 to raise age limits in the study aid system. I want to show everyone who thinks it is a waste of time with individual exercise that it is possible to influence with the help of individual exercise. I'm glad the Center Party has taken up my demands in the exercise. We are fixated on age limits, Mr President, in many contexts, not only when we are talking about study aid systems. It's about working life. Whatever it is, it's age limits. There are some things to do in this area, not just in terms of study funds. Clearly, study funding is one of the areas we need to look at. It is, of course, based on the old picture of working life, to scale down, that you have reached the height at 50 and then you have to step down and dismantle yourself from working life, retire. But the picture is not quite like that. We want to be active, and we want freedom to choose for ourselves. We want to renew ourselves, renew working life and be involved in developing Sweden. This is generally encouraged. This is also clear from the report of the Pension Age Investigation. We will provide the opportunity for people to choose the path, including the age-rich way forward. Against this background, it is important and proper that the age limit for degression of study funds was raised, but the small step was taken. It seemed like there was some hesitation. Did you dare raise four years this time? Well. We raised the limit for de-escalation of study funds from 45 to 47. Then the upper limit was pushed to obtain study funding in this case by two years to 56 from 54. Then it should be gone. How we design the study aid system says something about what we think about working life. Therefore, it would be wise not to do as the majority of the committee, namely to say that the system was changed just now so that something new does not have to be done. We all know that it takes time to change. I think that the Center Party's reservation in that part – also in other parts – where I myself have raised a motion is worthy of attention. It is really a matter of instructing the government to come back with legislative proposals that provide additional opportunities for people to study, to choose new ones and contribute to Sweden's development. Let's take another small step, from 47 to 49. We believe that the aim should be to completely abolish age limits. Personally, I have absolutely no objection if the government comes back with such a bill. Having listened a little to the debate, I expect that more parties in this House who have spoken about lifelong learning, about the importance of being able to contribute and to be free to choose for themselves, will support reservation 3 under paragraph 4. I was a little surprised and thought I had read wrong when I saw that it was only the Center Party that was behind that reservation. That did not sound right in the debate I was listening to. Welcome all to assist the individual exercise I have awakened. Do as the Center Party! Support the proposal!
i-6cd0216fb6947973-715	Mr President, I would like to It is now almost exactly on the day of one year since we last debated preschool in this House. In a change of line with the Social Democrats, I received three questions: Is preschool real? Is it important to you? Are you prepared to defend its pedagogy and its value in Swedish school? If it did not come to light then I hope that this has been achieved during the year that has passed. In Almedalen we devoted almost all of our seminary to preschool. With a party voice in the back, we Moderates have made several crucial and important decisions to strengthen preschool conditions to give all children a good start in life. For the first time, we largely devoted the entire education debate to preschool. After several hours of debate, we went through, among other things, a general preschool from the age of two years and to review the issue of setting up first teachers and lecturers also in preschool. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish preschool has developed something huge in recent decades. Step by step the preschool is now beginning to live up to its name for school, and the focus has been shifted away from babysitting and care to pedagogy and learning. That we have a preschool based on play and learning, singing and pedagogy and much more is part of the Swedish model that we should be proud of. Over the years in the alliance government, we pushed Moderates on to continue to strengthen the importance of preschool. We made sure that preschool became our own school form and got an updated and modern curriculum. We also raised a greater focus on nature and technology in preschool. Research from both the United States and the OECD shows that a well-functioning preschool primarily benefits children from unstudy homes. For the Moderates, therefore, preschool is an obvious cornerstone of our policy. I'm proud and happy about that. However, for preschool to reach its full potential, we must continue to develop preschool and above all strengthen it where it is lacking. For the Moderates, there are two clear priorities: reducing the size of children's groups and strengthening the skills of pre-schoolers and pre-school staff. The fact that these two factors are crucial to the quality of pre-school education is something on which research agrees. And it is gratifying that we – at least in part – agree to reduce the size of children's groups in preschool. The Moderates invest SEK 1 billion in reducing the size of children's groups. That's more than the government does. Mr President, I would like to But then we come to the second factor; the competence in preschool. Here we see a government that has almost surrendered. In the 2015 spring change budget, you redistributed funds so that Stockholm University had to cut more than half of the planned training platforms on the pre-school programme, i.e. one in a region that is first growing so that it is creaking and, secondly, it already has one of the country's lowest levels of competence. Here in Stockholm, as few as three out of ten preschool teachers are qualified. I can compare it with a study visit I made in Götene and Töreboda a few months ago. There you have 85% qualified preschool teachers. Mr President, I would like to I would like to know how you Social Democrats think about this priority. Isn't it true that you too have taken part in the research that shows that the staff's competence, along with the size of the children's groups, is one of the most important quality factors in preschool? The fact that the Social Democrats in this conscious way contribute to the deterioration of the quality of Stockholm preschools is remarkable and not worthy of what we call the Swedish model. That's the one Prime Minister Stefan Löfven fought about the other day, isn't it? I thought it was about defending and strengthening what has built Sweden strong. But then he couldn't have counted the preschool. We Moderates want more children, including children in Stockholm, to meet with educated and qualified preschool teachers. I note that the Social Democrats here in Stockholm have chosen a different path and risk further impairing the quality of Stockholm preschools. Mr President, I would like to Several prominent Swedish researchers agree that we now have a curriculum that is at the forefront. But a curriculum can never be stronger than its weakest link. This was seen by the then alliance government early and therefore chose to strengthen the preschool lift, including with a focus on follow-up, nature and technology that was added to the new curriculum. Often, even in this case, it takes a while before the bets are lifted and the interest goes up. However, according to a letter from the Swedish National Agency for Education to the Government, the Swedish National Agency for Education – without any information efforts – had a participation interest corresponding to 45 new courses in the spring of 2016. I am extremely pleased and proud that our principals give priority to the skills development of pre-colleagues. But to at least the same extent, I am sorry that the government has scrapped all national efforts to raise the skills of pre-colleagues, especially now that there is such a great craving, interest and even need. In the 2015 budget exercise, we were clear in the Alliance: We want to extend the pre-school lift until 2018. Since then, we Moderates have gone one step further and want to see more permanent solutions to the skills development of pre-colleagues. Mr President, I would like to This is the difference between moderate and social-democratic politics. You Social Democrats lack the ability to act as you teach. Instead, you are dedicated to curing a broken leg with a Bamsep patch. You blame us Moderates for inaccuracies and talk your hoarse about both resources and benchmarks. But when you scratch the surface you find that the Social Democratic ambitions for preschool are few and very thin. Therefore, it is worrying that you have removed the efforts on the preschool lift that we now see that there is such a craving for. We Moderates have in the past year really recognized color about preschool. For us, preschool is a cornerstone of our policy. That is why, here in Parliament, we have put forward important and decisive proposals on how we want preschools to develop. Mr President, I would like to I am truly surprised that the Social Democrats in government are contributing to the deterioration of pre-school conditions. That is why I am now addressing them with the same questions I received from the Social Democrats last year: Is preschool for real? Is it really important to you? And are you prepared to defend its pedagogy and its value in Swedish school? I request the approval of Amendments Nos 1 and 19.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-736	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning we only ask for approval to 15 and 20. We will also support reservations 5, 7 and 12, on which we share the view of the KD, if the KD requests their approval. The curriculum of the school is what governs the business. For those of you who listen at home, I can tell you that it's really just paper handling. It is up to the educators to turn it into reality. According to the curriculum, activities should be fun, safe and educational for children. These are the basic conditions for preschool to work. The Government has allocated 830 million to the younger children for 2016. It's praiseworthy. It is very gratifying, although the Swedish Democrats invested a little more money than that. I just want to say to all the politicians in here that this is much appreciated. It is really noticeable in the operations that this money has made a difference. But we have a big problem, and that is that the school business cannot make long-term investments. Extremely many municipalities in Sweden choose in case a unit manages to save some money to reduce the budget for next year for that unit. Or the money simply burns inside – money that has been saved during the year. One may have the ambition to start a parkour park for the children or buy in some particular digital technology. You can't do that today. It is impossible in many municipalities. Here we politicians in the Riksdag have an opportunity to try to control the municipalities so that we give the schools an opportunity to put away a buffer and thus be able to make long-term investments. As far as the groups of children are concerned, Mr President, there is probably no politician here who does not see the importance of the size of the groups of children. But we should not stare blindly at the number of children per adult. Then we could have a room with 200 people and 200 children and put one adult per child. It's gonna be wrong. We need to look at what room we have for the kids. Mr President, I would like to In the school system there are children with learning difficulties. It is all these different letter combinations and different other variants. How does the school work with them today? Well, usually – unfortunately most often – you don't add the person who is most competent to care for these children. People are added to the labour market, perhaps because it is cheap labour. These people are put without education, support or help on the children who need the most help. I don't know if we'd do the same thing in health care. Is the least knowledgeable doctor really being put on the most difficult surgery? Children who have these combinations of letters and everything often find it very difficult to assimilate what the school has to offer. We need the best educators for the weakest children. Pre-school education is extremely important to the social individual. Let's see what the research has come up with. It turns out to be so amazing that children who feel good also perform well. Maybe there's not a lot of research to highlight. But for children to be able to perform well and feel well, some harsh factors are required. You have to look at what the playing environment, the air environment, the sound environment and the light environment look like and what the overall working environment is like for the children. If the basic conditions do not exist, it will be difficult for children to assimilate. What's the outside play area like? Are children able to develop physically and motorically and perhaps fall apart? If they don't, the surface's too small, what's it gonna be? Yes, the children are restless in the classroom. All these hard factors affect the soft child. The Swedish Democrats would like to see a stronger link between research and the education of the pre-colleagues. At present, according to the research itself, it is virtually non-existent. The Moderates have been inside looking at the quality. I think it's commendable that you look at this particular thing. But we must also have the courage to look at education. What does the training include? A survey carried out by the Swedish Democrats showed that book analysis is done on adult literature, not on children's literature, for example. There was also an example where one had sat and looked at how all Disney's castles and princesses belonged together. It is perhaps incredibly interesting and important to do, but I do not think it is developing for the preschool teacher's role. Instead, one should focus on things that actually, in reality, affect the education of pre-colleagues. It's about such small and simple things as how to train finger motorism. What things make children interact and develop as social individuals? Perhaps those things are important to focus on in pre-school education. There is something called gender education. It is neither evidence nor research-based, but it is a requirement for pre-school education. You take your head off. Is it really important to our children? Answer no. There are two things I would like to talk about. One is the educational care, i.e. day care provider or in ordinary Swedish day care or daycare. Today we have an extremely large reception of children. About 71 000 have arrived in Sweden last year. Not all of these should attend preschool, but many thousands more children than those we already have will enter preschool. What is the biggest problem today? Yes, it's space. We don't have enough rooms for all these people. The Swedish Democrats see that not all children are suitable for living in the large environment. Some children demand the small group. We do not need to build anything at all if we reintroduce and support daywives and day-fathers, because the premises already exist. They can take the children into their home. Here we see in the Swedish Democrats a huge opportunity to ensure that children have an environment to stay in, instead of lumping them together into even larger groups, which we are all against here. For many years we have had the view that preschool is so important that we almost removed control from the parents. What has happened, then, when we increasingly clumped children into preschool and almost impossible for day mothers and fathers to have children at home? Well, the grades haven't exactly increased in the last 20 years. As a matter of urgency, I would venture to say that a contributing factor is that we have too large groups of children where the individual cannot be seen. That's a contributing reason why grades also go down. I think the KD has been in and stumbled on this issue as well. If so, it is commendable and very good. My second point is the childcare allowance for close relatives. It is also a complement. The Swedish Democrats are pursuing a pragmatic policy. We need to see what the reality is today in Sweden. There are 71,000 children going into the school system. These are solutions that last over time. This may contribute to the fact that premises are not the restriction. It can also make it possible for families who live a little inaccessible and who have difficulties with three or four children of different ages to leave everyone. There are still many family farms today. It would be easy, with the help of parents or close relatives, to get a support for babysitting during the day, so that you don't have to spend a lot of travel time and other things that ruin the working day. This is just one example of many. Once again, it is a way to make the countryside live. Mr President, I would like to This and many other things that the Swedish Democrats put forward worked in the old Bonde verige not too many years ago. That is a solution that I believe will continue today. We must dare to look back in order sometimes to look forward.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-758	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I am in favour of reservation 1, but of course we are in favour of all our reservations. The Alliance strengthened preschool in a number of different areas. We worked with expertise. The preschool lift was part of it. The fact that preschool actually became part of the education chain and is now also part of the school law was an important part of strengthening quality. The curriculum was clarified and there are a number of additional points that have been important for preschool development. I am a little saddened when I listen to the Swedish Democrats, who say that we have lumped children together in huge groups. There are a lot of examples of the opposite. The other week I had the privilege of visiting an I ur and sparring preschool outside Skövde, a staff cooperative with three educators and 21 children. It's a fantastic business. Preschools have 22 goals to work towards. It is about the safety of children, about the development of the individual and about being able to stay in a group. It's about language and mathematics. It is an overall picture of the child's development that the preschool has to work with. It is a fantastic business where there are opportunities. The staff cooperative has the opportunity to also cook on the spot and to really develop it. If it goes in Stöpen outside Skövde it is clear that it goes in a lot of places in Sweden, but it requires commitment. It requires the commitment of parents, who are naturally concerned about their children's preschool. It is an opportunity for preschool teachers to work together in a staff cooperative based on the ideas they believe most in. From the alliance parties, we have strengthened the emphasis on mathematics and science in preschool. Here you have great opportunities to get the children to develop in this very way. Don't speak ill of the Swedish preschool! Then there is a problem picture in some municipalities where for various reasons you do not have suitable premises or an acceptable sound level. But it is not only about the premises but also about the way in which they work. You are pulling too much gear on this, and when you then pull in that you are going back to Televerket's time and the old farming society makes me afraid of the dark. Where do you want us to end up? My former alliance colleague Camilla Waltersson Grönvall gave a good speech on the development potential of preschool and so on, so I will not go into those questions any further. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish preschool has great opportunities. I would like to see more parties highlighting the issues of freedom of choice with regard to preschool. There are different forms of operation. I mentioned staff cooperatives, but we also know that there are family cooperatives and individual performers, as well as some larger groups which are now under suspicion because they would not burn for the development of children, but that it is just a matter of making money. But exciting pre-school concepts are being built up, and what is in the slightly larger groups is also extremely interesting for countries outside Sweden's borders. The idea of the Swedish preschool is exported. This is an exciting development, which I would like to see promoted in various ways in order to raise quality in different ways. It would also be good if preschool could be followed by a ten-year primary school, which took up where the preschool curriculum ends, linked to the 22 goals there. Of course, there are many more goals in primary school, but it would be good if you could continue working instead of, as it often is today, stopping in the so-called preschool class. Then children's development can really build on preschool. It is about seeing the child's full development potential and also the importance of language. I get very perplexed when the Swedish Democrats discuss the design of pre-school education and say that you should not study adult literature in pre-school education. I see it as a matter of course that in different ways you take part in adult literature and learn literature critical approach. Children's literature is of course also important, but that we politicians should go in and decide in that way I feel very alien to. I recommend all of you to visit I u r and showers in Stöpen. If you can't visit Skövde, there are clocks and showers in other places. It's about seeing the possibility of good preschools that make a good business. Then we can lift it so that parents can trust that the activity of their children throughout the day is as good as they would like. It's incredibly important.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-771	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulrika Carlsson, for talking about parental cooperatives! I first have a brief question for Ulrika Carlsson. Has Ulrika Carlsson read the Swedish Democrats' proposal about the parent cooperatives? We are very much in favour of this and, above all, we highlight the possibility of economic survival as a parent cooperative. There you should administratively remove a lot of things.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-772	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I've seen that suggestion.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-773	Mr President, I would like to That's good. A straight answer from a politician is always nice to hear. I never thought I would hear the Center standing here in the speaker's chair and knocking down on the peasant society, but I heard this today, Mr President. There was talk of the I u r and the Skull School. It was also said that the Swedish Democrats are very happy to stand in the speaker's chair and pick up on the problems that exist in the Swedish school system. Yes, I think as a teacher– it is also Ulrica – that we must dare to talk about the problems and not just glorify. We have big problems in the school system. We must, in fact, dare to talk about this in here. On the other hand, I have no problem with highlighting good examples. With my ten fingers I could stand here and list many good examples that I have witnessed myself. I don't have to go any further than my own family. I have worked as a teacher at I u r and s spa school for 15 years. The only disadvantage she has told us about when it comes to that school and those children is that the children are never sick. This is very positive, because they can take full advantage of their education.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-777	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry if I in any way messed up the farming community. That was absolutely not my intention. But it surprises me a little when you're glorifying. It is therefore a question of wanting to go back to another time, of wanting to go back to the time of Televerket or to the time of the old peasant society. This surprises me a little, because I also think that the Swedish Democrats see the challenges of the countryside in a way that is more than just shouting back something that has been. There is a development perspective on this. In order to address quality deficiencies, it is extremely important that we dare to point them out. An important part is about leadership. So far, we have not been in the debate on the opportunity of preschool managers and that part of the leadership. I see this as an extremely important part of being able to drive quality. I know that in various ways very good efforts are being made. I also know that the School Inspectorate has been commissioned by the government to review the quality of preschool. It will be an important part for all of us to follow the way in which quality issues are raised. When it comes to how we want to create freedom of choice for both parents and children, it becomes extremely important, as Stefan Jakobsson pointed out earlier, that some children need smaller groups of children. It is therefore important that there is flexibility. But I do not believe in the future as a strategy to solve those challenges, but rather in further upgrading of skills, which you need in different ways, and that you work with leadership.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-781	Mr President, I would like to The feminist movement in Sweden has had many victories over the years. Not least, the development of Swedish preschools and childcare facilities has played a major role. It is a childcare and preschool that has a special position among similar school forms around the world and that we should be proud of. However, as we have mentioned on many occasions, preschools in Sweden today are much bigger than just a feminist profit. It is also about the future of our children. As we often talk about, the future of children is not determined in the future, but today. What childcare and preschool we offer our children will have an impact later on the education system. When we have had preschool debates on previous occasions, they have, in my opinion, consisted of a lot of repetition. We basically say the same things, in many ways. We can have our dividing lines about whether large groups of children are important or not, or whether they affect children's development or not. We can have views on whether we should have more employees in preschool or not. But if it is something that all the democratic parties in Parliament agree on, it is that Swedish preschool has a special position and is unique around the world. I would like to raise two of the Left Party's reservations. One is about the Work Environment Act. It is about today having a working environment law that applies to primary and secondary schools but not to preschools. The question of whether the OSH Act should also cover preschools and recreation centres has been discussed and investigated several times. The question of the application of the Work Environment Act is not only about long-term systematic work environment management but also about concrete and more or less acute work environment risks. Sometimes it is referred to that the Swedish Work Environment Authority or safety representative can take action when there are large risks, to the protection of the staff. In this way, children are also protected indirectly. You can read the comments in the report. It says that there are a number of documents that include these measures but that it has simply not been decided in the Swedish parliament that the Work Environment Act should also cover preschools. I think this is quite serious. There are of course several different ways to go to improve the working environment for children in school. However, we believe that the Left Party, Mr President, should be one of these tools. Therefore, in our reservation and exercise, we say that the government should come back with proposals that the Safety and Health Act should apply to children in preschool in a similar way as it does to pupils in primary and secondary schools. Before I forget, I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of Amendment No 10 under paragraph 8. The second issue I would like to raise concerns children's literature. We know today how important it is for the very young children and their creativity and imagination and, in the long run, for their future opportunities in society that they come into contact with books and literature at an early stage, long before they can even read themselves. We also know that gender roles are formed from the first day of a child's life and that boys later in life read less literature than girls on average. In particular, it is important to note that boys and girls in preschool receive an equal stimulus when it comes to book talk or reading and that the staff are aware of the gender roles that the books describe and have the knowledge to talk about this with the children. Against this background, we from the Left Party demand that you review how you can increase this and invest in children getting in touch with books earlier. The issue of the requirement for a school library has been discussed in relation to pre-school education. Unfortunately, that law does not apply to pre-school activities today. There is a risk that the present system does not take into account the needs of preschool children for literature. Public libraries are not always connected to the preschools in which children attend. And the staff of preschools can only exceptionally, if at all, go with the children to these libraries. That is why we in the Left Party, in reservation 9 under paragraph 7, which I also call for the government to take action as stated in the reservation. I would like to conclude my speech by raising a key issue for the Left Party, which concerns not only pre-school but also welfare as a whole. But today I'm going to focus on the preschool part. It may often sound nagging that a party clearly stands up and says: We are not for sale. The welfare is not for sale. But today I would like to continue by saying that we do not want preschool to be for sale either. Political debates try rhetorically to argue that the Left Party would in some way be against cooperatives or foundations whose aim is to ensure a good childcare and preschool for children. Everyone knows by now that's not true. What we oppose, however, is when the children are considered to be any commodity, when the logic for starting a preschool is the same as the logic for selling clothes on Drottninggatan and when the logic for investing in children's development suddenly becomes a question of money and how much profit you can make. In recent years we have seen an explosive development of independent primary and secondary schools. Now the largest actors in comprehensive school and upper secondary school – actors with venture capital companies such as EQT behind them – signal that it is time to enter the Swedish preschool. Although we have an agreement with the government on a profit investigation, which hopefully puts forward concrete proposals to put an end to this experimental workshop with the Swedish school and preschool and welfare as such, one is still concerned when, among other things, the Swedish democrats, after having had talks with the business community, suddenly change their views on the matter and choose to be the best friend of the venture capitalists. This also makes our struggle to put an end to the profits more difficult. Since the introduction of the free right of establishment for preschools in 2006, we have seen a series of deteriorations in various preschools and childcare activities around the country. They noted the crackbread and water scandals where the CEO stood up on television and defended the fact that he had made huge profits at the expense of the children is nothing to be forgotten. It was not the last time that this happened either. Having said that, I would like to say that we will continue to work towards having a preschool where children are seen not as goods that can be made a profit, but as individuals that we will be involved in developing into later on in the education system and participating in building this society.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-798	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat warned that debates sometimes sound the same year after year. He certainly fulfilled that ratio well himself. Ulrika Carlsson from the Center Party said earlier that it requires commitment if preschool is to be really good. You can see this, Daniel Riazat. When the lack of commitment shows its face, you can see the effects. Read Sydsvenskan's review of emergency preschools in Malmö this past week! There, for example, is the story of the Klangen Emergency Preschool. Some sixty diaper children are placed in an apartment in a million - dollar program area. Walls have been torn down to make room for everyone. When Sydsvenskan's journalists arrive, a number of children crawling around on the floor crying. You meet staff who cry because they feel they can't deliver what they want to deliver. Lack of commitment has led to a long pre-school queue in Malmö. You have to establish emergency preschools for those who don't fit in regular preschools. There will be emergency preschools in apartments that are not made for this. Ventilation systems are not working. You have too many kids. It is difficult to recruit staff. The staff will be on sick leave. You don't have a business that parents feel safe leaving their children in. What Ulrika Carlsson talked about earlier – that commitment to a good preschool – we see in so many different places. But we also sometimes see how lack of commitment in preschool leads to poor preschools. The staff at the emergency preschool Klangen cannot take the children out because they cannot carry all these one-year-olds down the stairs in properties where there is no elevator. This is due to a lack of commitment over many years that has led to queues, not only in Malmö but also in Gothenburg and in some other municipalities that do not meet the childcare guarantee without setting up emergency preschools in premises that are not made for preschools. Daniel Riazat! Your commitment is needed for all children to get a little better – not to counteract private alternatives. Mr President, I would like to Swedish preschool is good. There are exceptions that are bad, and there are municipalities that are bad. But basically Swedish preschool is something that is good and that we can be proud of. Unfortunately, several municipalities have queues. Several municipalities are forced to do as Malmö and start emergency preschools. Several preschools have long queues and for large groups. In some places the educational ambitions are too low. But there are probably quite strong reasons to say that these are the exceptions. We have a pretty good quality of preschool, if the commitment is in the municipalities to ensure that it is. The lack of commitment was one of the reasons why the Alliance commissioned the Swedish School Inspectorate to also review the quality of preschools. That is why we told them to review the quality and achievement of goals for three years and to enter not only the main level but also the individual preschool. That is why we wanted a picture of the situation in general, and that is why we wanted more municipalities to have an assessment of the quality. More preschools could see differences and how to improve. That's why the Alliance government went to preschool. We expanded further training for the pre-colleagues, and we expanded pre-colleagues' training. We also gave further training to preschool managers. We took initiatives to break with old gender standards and to increase gender equality. In all these areas, we Liberals are prepared to go further and further. It should also be remembered that meeting the larger groups of children, partly because we have many new ones in Sweden, is a fairly big challenge in the near future, partly because of other factors. This is particularly true in those municipalities that have ignored, year after year, the signals that have been in existence that there is a greater need than what has been in the supply. We must ensure that, in these years and the coming years, we maintain quality with great challenges. It goes without saying that Sweden cannot forever be a country that is considered to have a good preschool. This requires commitment in this House but also from local politicians. Perhaps the most important thing is to ensure that we have quality in the reception of new children. But we will also ensure that we live up to the requirements of preschool. That is why I now call for reservation 1 to improve the implementation of the very good curriculum for preschool that we have. The government chooses to put the effort put on preschool to discuss benchmarks for the size of children's groups. I'm sure it's pretty good. I think that many parents who leave their children to emergency preschools in Malmö would be happy if there were not only benchmarks but also if they were followed. But it is clear that benchmarks are no guarantee that there will be good quality in the particular preschool where you are located. It must also be said that there is no obvious figure saying that the limit is right here. It's not that if you just live up to 15 children in a group, it's good quality. It is also about the composition of the group, how old the children are, what staff you have, what the premises look like and much more. There's a lot of stuff going on here. In order to improve quality, I think it is also other things that need to come to than guiding benchmarks from the Swedish National Agency for Education. Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that I am concluding positively. The big picture of Swedish preschool is positive. We have high quality. Many other countries come here to learn from us and be inspired by us. But you must not forget the alternatives and the lack of commitment in preschool that we see is around Sweden. We have a preschool that is among the best in the world... perhaps the very best. But some activities can definitely be better. We will have a preschool that is safe and developing and that sees each individual separately. It will help to see man not only as part of a sex but as someone who can be just anything. We will have a preschool with high educational ambitions – a world's best preschool that can be even better for everyone.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-814	Mr President, I would like to I would like to respond to some of the points made by Christer Nylander in his speech. We fully agree that there are municipalities that are misbehaving and that there are municipalities that have good preschool activities. This also applies to other welfare activities. We agree that not all private actors in the preschool sector or in the rest of the school sector are bad. At the same time, there is a dividing line here. It runs between certain parties that believe that we can simply experiment with our children, the very smallest of our children, and see them as something to profit from and those parties that believe that there should be a different logic for doing childcare activities than selling clothes – or for that matter cars or soft ice cream. This is an important dividing line. Somehow it sends a signal of what we want with the business itself. When we in the Left Party address these issues, the alliance parties usually say: We want a good quality. Can't we talk about it instead of the profits? At the same time, we know that Sweden is an exception throughout the world when it comes to having an extreme privatisation policy, where welfare has been for sale for a number of years, where pupils and children have been seen as goods and where teachers have been seen as interchangeable anyway. There, venture capital companies have made huge profits. It's money from our common welfare that ends up in tax havens in Jersey and Guernsey. Why are the Liberals in favour of this?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-820	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazats's involvement would have done much more if it had been for the children and not for certain forms of operation. I have to ask him a question about the following description: acoustics leave much to be desired. Preschool lacks its own play areas. The ventilation is currently being reviewed by the environmental administration. Sweeps pile up, diapers don't change, children cry, parents cry, and employees cry. Where's your commitment then, Daniel Riazat? Is this an experiment with children, or is it not an experiment with children?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-823	Mr President, I would like to I thank Christer Nylander for his comment. What you bring out is a picture that we can agree with is around the country. It is also something that we are probably both agreed on, in theory anyway, to be addressed. At the same time, it must be ensured that alliance parties have rarely been involved in addressing these problems. The Alliance government has rather chosen to lower the tax for the richest for a number of years with the support of the Swedish Democrats than to invest in our general welfare including preschool. The Alliance has chosen to have deductions, or grants as it should be called, for the most well-off in Vaxholm and Danderyd instead of ensuring that resources are spent on having more staff in preschool and on reducing children's groups. When alliance representatives like Christer Nylander put the question to the Left Party opposition about what has been done to improve this, our answer is very clear, namely that the Left Party would rather be involved in increasing government revenue in order to invest money in these sectors than to contribute to the very richest and to reduce their taxes. It's actually politics.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-826	Mr President, I would like to Preschool, as Daniel Riazat knows, is a municipal matter. I think that after this debate, Daniel Riazat can consider whether he can find the answer to the question when the Alliance last ruled in Malmö and when the Alliance last ruled in Gothenburg.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-827	Mr President, I would like to The child's need for connection requires freedom of choice and diversity. That is the title of my speech, a heading which is also the watchword for the Christian Democrats when it comes to positions on childcare and preschool. Research shows that large groups of children have negative effects, especially on the youngest children because they depend on close contacts with adults to connect with. Too many relationships stress young children, and this can affect their learning ability and well - being far up in their ages. Large groups hamper the interaction between children and adults, which in turn can lead to harm to the development of identity and language in the worst case scenario. That is why we Christian Democrats want to do more to really reduce the size of children's groups. The Christian Democrats have long worked to reduce the size of children's groups in preschool, and we also financed, together with the other alliance parties, the reduction of children's groups in the 2015 budget. It is gratifying that the government now shares this ambition by continuing with this important initiative and the design that we proposed. The general advice, with clear guidelines for the size of children's groups, recently presented by the Swedish National Agency for Education, is also something that the Christian Democrats have been asking for for for a long time. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats believe that the preschool curriculum should emphasise the need to work with the smallest children's association process and to give them time to feel safe. For the smallest children, the focus should be on safety. The free play will also dominate the activities of the smallest children in preschool but with natural linguistic and motor stimulation that will gradually build a successful school start. For this to be possible, the staff must also be able to spend most of their time with the children. With the 2010 curriculum, pre-school staff, like primary school teachers, received more administrative tasks. Several preschool teachers have pointed out the absurdity of spending more time on extensive documentation, while children's groups are growing and staffing density is decreasing. We therefore need to review the tasks and responsibilities of preschool staff so that more time is released with the children. Mr President, I would like to One of the most important principles of Christian Democrats is that all people are equally worth but different and unique. To treat everyone equally is not fair. That is why we think it is important to have different forms of childcare and schooling, as well as care for the elderly, etc. The slogan of the Social Democrats during one of the most recent election movements should be included. All must have been a more truthful slogan. It is only one form of childcare that is subsidised with enormous amounts of money. A preschool place costs an average of 130 000 SEK per year. Think of the variety of childcare forms that could be created with this money if one really had the will to enable different types of childcare by means of childcare allowances that accompany the individual child. This would both reduce the pressure on existing preschools and create different types of activities that best suit the individual child. Family day-care centres mean smaller groups of children, and the children then stay in a home environment. For many children, this can be a positive option, especially for the youngest. Despite the introduction of a childcare allowance and free right of establishment, many municipalities prevent the possibility of choosing the activities that parents are asking for. When it comes to family day care and educational care, municipalities rarely market these opportunities. We Christian Democrats believe that municipalities should have an obligation to offer educational care to those parents who so desire. That's why we're proposing a tightening up of the school law. Today, the law states that the municipality should strive to offer educational care. We want this to be a ska requirement. Mr President, I would like to In order for parents to be able to choose the childcare that suits their own family best, they must also be able to compare the quality of childcare. Today it is difficult for parents to judge what is a good preschool or a good family day - care home. The Swedish National Agency for Education has databases where preschools and family day-care centres can be compared in relatively difficult tables. Parents need better opportunities to make informed choices. We want the Swedish National Agency for Education to be tasked with further developing the service so that it becomes more transparent, accessible and useful. We Christian Democrats also want to strengthen the School Inspectorate's supervision of preschool with a focus on quality and achievement of goals. We also consider it a very remarkable order that the School Inspectorate examines municipal activities, while the educational care is reviewed by the municipality. These activities are often in competition with each other. We Christian Democrats want to change this. We want to transfer responsibility for reviewing all child care activities to the School Inspectorate. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats also want to see the open preschool as part of municipal pre-school activities. It has a very important family support function, especially for the parents of newborns and young children. According to the National Agency for Education, one in three municipalities lacks an open preschool. The decrease cannot be explained solely by the fact that demand has decreased, but the majority of the municipalities that have closed down have given economic reasons. Open to so-called cola in connection with family centres has become a very important place to coordinate support and assistance for the newborn child and the family. Yet there are still places where open preschool activities are completely absent or insufficient for all children. It is an alarming dismantling of family support at a time when more and more parents are expressing the need for support. Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 13 and 14.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-843	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a motion report from the general period of exercise. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Many have believed that a lot has happened in the past year. In particular, we are in fact finally running this country – the great, fantastic Sweden – with a red-green budget. When it comes to preschool, a lot of people think a lot. You think small children, and you think life and movement. You think educational activities, preschool teachers, nurseries, schoolyards, slush weather, all-weather boots and overpants. You think a lot of color, pearl plates, pencils and pillows and mattresses on the floor. You think cozy lighting and noise-absorbing materials on the walls. Many may recognize themselves in this. You also think of a lot of care, a lot of companionship, friends and many other things. I'm thinking right now if my daughter got on that jumpsuit since my husband broke its zipper last night. What I want to say is that preschool is very multifaceted. Apart from all the things I mentioned, feelings are also given much thought. One thinks of the difficulty of leaving the children and the frustration in the eyes of the educators when they feel that they are not enough. The preschool that is so amazing contains a lot. It engages most people, and we can all be proud of the fine preschool we have. We want to continue to develop it with a focus on the best interests of our children and staff, now and in the future. The Swedish preschool must exist, and it must be available for all children. It will guarantee our children a good and safe environment that provides the prerequisite for developing into independent individuals and promotes curiosity and ability to play. There shall be space to grow individually and in groups. It is very important, Mr President, to emphasise that the activity must be characterised by an educational process in which care, care, education and learning form a whole. That is also what this report shows: preschool has gone from being part of family policy to being an extremely important part of a coherent education system. As a parent with pre-school children, I know how important it is that we have a preschool that meets my child and its needs and that I can safely leave my child with dedicated preschool teachers and nurseries. I have travelled and seen how childcare works in other countries, and it is striking how good we are. This is something that has not always been obvious. If you look at the history and what Sweden looked like before preschool came into its current form you get both angry and sad. As a professional woman and mother, it was not self-evident to be able to work – caring for children and family was seen as the woman's job. We have worked this out with a conscious policy and conscious reforms. It is because preschool is a prerequisite for an equal working life in Sweden, and that is something we should continue to work for. We must always talk about preschool as one of the most important and basic foundations. It is an obvious feature of lifelong learning. Research shows that children who have attended a high-quality preschool succeed better in school. They are better prepared for school, have better language skills and show greater social skills compared to children who have not participated in preschool activities. This applies especially to children who come from resource-weak homes and children with tough growing-up conditions. A high-quality preschool thus helps to strengthen knowledge outcomes and increase equality in schools – and in the long term also in society. Mr President, I would like to I think we have all followed the debate and discussion about large groups of children in one way or another, that the staff are on their knees and that frustration is growing from the parents' side. You want to feel safe, you want to feel comfortable and you want preschool to be able to live up to the ambitions of the school teams and curriculum. It is important to say from here, from the Swedish parliament, that we hear them. We hear them, and we want to do something about it. We may not be fully in port, but there is a conscious political effort to meet the needs that exist. Two important prerequisites for preschools to be able to meet the objectives of the organisation are that the children's groups are of an appropriate size and that the staff density is sufficient – that we have access to skilled child care workers and preschool teachers. Against this background, it is gratifying that the government is making important investments in preschool. The Swedish National Agency for Education has presented its work on re-establishing benchmarks and guidelines for smaller groups of children, and the task is also to allocate 830 million annually to stimulate the principals to reduce children's groups for the youngest children. It is also important to emphasise that we see the need for more training places for preschool teachers. This creates the conditions for principals to increase teacher density and recruit skills that can give each child the opportunity to be seen and developed in their learning. I assume that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall will ask for a reply to my speech, but I can tell you that we are expanding the training by 800 seats. To Stockholm there will be 50 new places, to Södertörn there will be 60 and to Mälardalen University there will be 40 new places. Uppsala gets 60 seats. It's not bad. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the role of pre-school managers in the work on development, strengthening quality and achieving goals in preschool. Pedagogical leadership must be strengthened. It is therefore important that pre-school managers become and be named principals. In this way they will have access to the same competence development as principals in other school forms, and we believe that such a change is necessary in order to make the pre-school managers' assignments visible as educational leaders. My speaking time is running out. In conclusion, I would just like to say that there are parties – one in particular, namely the Swedish Democrats – who use easy-to-use concepts such as, for example, flies and, for example, political trends, when it comes to gender and gender equality, Mr President. It calls for an approach based on evidence. I would like to say to them that they are happy to receive a RUT report that I have ordered and which confirms that there are traditional gender patterns that need to be opposed. I have the report here, but Stefan Jakobsson does not seem to be in the Chamber.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-856	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates want to give all children a really good start in life, and we see that preschool is one of the absolutely best tools we have when it comes to working compensatoryly. We know that research is clear that preschool is one of the best ways we have to counteract the elements that are due to socio-economic differences and backgrounds that are somewhat more unheard of. The education initiative The preschool lift has been an extremely important part of raising skills in preschool. Some are having small preschool groups, but the other part is to have really high skills. The preschool lift has partly been based on the Swedish School Inspectorate's reviews of preschool, and in part it has been based on the preschool's new curriculum. The participants, who have come from all over the country, have had the opportunity to choose from a wide variety of courses. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's Annual Report 2015, the courses in multilingualism, science and technology are by far the most sought-after and requested. It is gratifying that it is precisely they who are, given that we are now taking on a major challenge with many new arrivals and we know that preschools will be an extremely important part of this. As far as science and technology are concerned, we see that the intentions of the curriculum are not being complied with. Then I ask you, how is it possible that the pre-school lift is not included and is completely removed? Is preschool really real, and is it really important to you?
i-2s9Sq8SamVaF9V56hsk1ey	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! When I was sitting here listening to your speech, you raised a lot of issues in an extremely loud tone, I must say. I was so terribly provoked. First of all, I'm going to answer your question about the preschool lift. I agree that it is incredibly important, and a great deal has been done. We have also invested in the preschool lift. M en we are also investing in the skills development of preschool managers right now, because we see that there is a need to ensure that quality permeates all parts of preschool. It is interesting that you take up the preschool lift, because in your budget I could not see that you are investing in the preschool lift or continuing education for preschool teachers. You don't talk about broadening or developing it, so I think it's interesting that you're highlighting it here and now. It is interesting that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall sits here and listens to the anti-school party Sweden Democrats, who talk about us turning back the clock, that relatives should take care of their children at home, without responding by taking a reply to the Swedish Democrats. You focus on a party that for 40 to 50 years has introduced an enormous number of important reforms for an equal working life, for women to get out to work and not have to take responsibility for the whole family. We have done a great deal, and Camilla Waltersson Grönvall focuses on me and the Social Democrats but nothing on the anti-school party Sweden Democrats. Why is that?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-865	Mr President, I would like to During my years as a politician, I have experienced many different kinds of trixes to turn attention away from one's own politics being quite empty. But I don't think I've ever really experienced the trait I just noticed. If you sit in a government position and are to be a representative in this debate for Sweden's largest government party, then you have to do better in the speaker's chair than you did right now. There's a lot to comment on around it. Even if you are so happy over two months with your own budget, which I understand you are with your background, it is interesting and requires an answer why you do not invest in preschool and do not make sure to give the pre-school staff the necessary further training that is now required. It is therefore 45 courses that could have been started this spring if there had been an interest from the Swedish government to invest in this. How does Roza Güclü Hedin feel that you are strengthening the Swedish preschool? With what proposals in this budget, which you are so proud and cocky about and which have been in place for two months, have you chosen to invest in preschool? We see a clear reduction of 19,95 when it comes to the investment at Stockholm University. They have chosen to listen to Social Democratic municipal councillors and made regional political initiatives, when it is in Stockholm we have the absolute biggest deficiency. I would like to return the questions I received a year ago and add the question, except whether preschool is real, whether it is important to you and whether you are prepared to defend its policy and its value within Swedish school, why the Social Democrats are failing our children and our preschool staff.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-871	Mr President, I would like to You might think that you Moderates achieved a great deal over the eight years you were in government. A little self-criticism, please! At least Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is one of the bourgeois politicians that I know is passionate about these issues. But you've had eight years and you haven't done anything. Sure, you have revised the curriculum – absolutely. It was probably time because it was introduced in 1998. But you haven't actually done anything else. I would like to mention the children's sturgeon investigation, the introduction of public preschools, the introduction of maximum rates for all children to be able to attend preschools. We are now introducing guidelines to reduce the size of children's crops. We provide 830 million to stimulate the principals to make changes that increase the quality of preschools. We invest in the development and further training of preschool teachers. We do not train preschool teachers away so that they can become primary school teachers, but we focus on preschool education as very important. We invest in the skills development of preschool managers in order for them to be able to carry out a good job. We are expanding our professional programmes so that more children's nurses can be trained so that we get more hands in preschool – people who can take care of our children and give them good educational care. That's a lot of bets we make. But what have you done in the eight years? It is not enough to stand here today and say that we are doing nothing. I would say that social democracy has meant a great deal to preschool and Sweden.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-876	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask Roza a straight question here. But first I have to respond to Mr Rozas's statement that my alliance representatives want to go back to a time when family members would have to look after their family members. I have to say that I think it sounds like a family hostile party expressing itself in this way. The finest thing you can do is take care of your own children and their aging parents, to be at your fingertips close to those you love most. I think Roza expresses the fact that the Social Democrats are a family hostile party in this case. Back to my direct question, which is also linked to what I have just said: how do the Social Democrats and Roza view the existence of different forms of childcare as alternatives to the general preschool? If so, what options should there be? As I said in my speech, all children are different. They are unique and need different solutions. We Christian Democrats defend the self-determination of families over what childcare they want. Every childcare place in general preschool is subsidised with over 100 000. Do the Social Democrats think it desirable for the state to subsidise a single form of childcare in this way? Or do you see with positive eyes that there are choices, that the individual family should be able to choose what it needs and wants?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-879	Mr President, I would like to I think Annica Eclund misunderstood me in the line shift. It was not the Christian Democrats that I referred to as a anti-school party, but it was the proposal of the Swedish Democrats to give childcare money to relatives so that they can take care of their grandchildren without demanding the minimum number of children and so on that I questioned. Options – absolutely, and they are also available today. The municipalities today help those parents who especially want other alternatives and assist with that opportunity. And I think open preschool is a fantastic addition to the general preschool. If you have special needs and the municipality and the principals are not able to respond to the needs, I do not see any problem with other types of activities as day care providers, previously called day care.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-882	Mr President, I would like to Let me go back to whether parties are anti-school or anti-family parties. I understood that the criticism was directed against my alliance colleague Camilla because she did not respond to the policy of the Swedish Democrats. It would be interesting to hear from Roza what options the Social Democrats can imagine. Could you imagine that the child's child-care allowance, as it is now, is being followed and that the child's parents can receive part of the subsidy given to the preschool? The Christian Democrats had a custody allowance, which you have lowered. This is no longer available in the municipalities. It wasn't optimal. We would have liked a much higher amount if we had received support for it. However, some form of development of childcare money, we Christian Democrats will be working with to enable parents to take care of their own children at home. It is a question of justice for me because I see the amounts of subsidies that are being made for a single childcare facility. I wonder again: what forms of childcare do the Social Democrats think we can offer? Are you willing to develop an opportunity with childcare money?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-886	Mr President, I would like to I thank Annika Eclund. As long as the business meets the requirements we set in the school law and curriculum, you can have any business. I don't have a problem with that. Of course, I have no problem with the family taking care of their children either. I'll take care of my kids, too. But the general, our common resources, we have chosen to invest in preschool. We have invested a lot of resources and tax money in building a preschool with an amazingly good pedagogy as a basis. Preschools will also prepare our children for future schooling. I would therefore rather invest the resources in improving and developing the quality of the existing preschool. However, the alternative childcare allowance should be available in existing form.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-890	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal. Preschool is the first step for our younger children in lifelong learning. Preschool's main task is to offer children a good educational activity where care, education and learning form a whole and where the emphasis is on play and learning. In preschool, our young people should have fun, be inspired, develop as individuals and learn. In preschool, children's curiosity should be aroused, and social skills can be developed. Almost half a million children go to school. Over 90% of the four-to-five-year-olds attend preschool. These are gratifyingly high figures. The children are our future, and they will be prepared for the best conditions. At the same time, preschool is crucial for society at large by creating opportunities for people to combine parenthood and working life. The Swedish preschool is world class. We should be proud of it, and I know that all parties are. Preschool has succeeded in reconciling pedagogy and care. Mr President, I would like to The size of children's groups plays a role in the quality and equivalence of Swedish preschools. It also plays a role in the ability of pre-colleagues to meet the needs of each child. For these reasons, the Government has commissioned the National Agency for Education to distribute state grants to reduce the size of children's groups in preschool. For this, 830 million will be allocated this year and the corresponding amount will be allocated in the coming years. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to reintroduce benchmarks for the size of children's groups in preschool. Access to preschool has been important for gender equality and has enabled women to work. It is not only those who work on weekdays who need preschool for their children but also those who work at night and weekends. Unfortunately, however, this possibility is not everywhere. For this reason, the government increases the funding for this by SEK 31 million from SEK 49 million to SEK 80 million per year. We all know that fresh and efficient premises are important. To promote this, the government allocated SEK 500 million in the budget bill, which was adopted a few months ago, to improve and upgrade the outdoor environments of our preschools, recreation centres and schools. Mr President, I would like to One of the most important factors for developing preschools is to invest in pre-school staff, with particular emphasis on pre-schoolers and pre-school managers. That is precisely why we must protect and invest money in these groups. As a result, the government is investing 200 million this year in the development of the skills of teachers and preschool teachers. In addition, the Government is investing funds in the skills development of preschool managers. A further important aspect of preschool education is that there are enough staff to give each child the stimulus and care they need. As a result, the Government invested SEK 500 million in the budget to increase access to teachers with special pedagogic skills, especially in the preschool class and comprehensive school grades 1 – 3. Another important initiative is the increased teacher's salaries where part of the money should go to the pre-colleagues. Among other things, it is through such efforts that we can improve and develop the Swedish preschool. Mr President, I would like to Finally, let me expose the moderate hypocrisy. In her speech, Moderate representative Camilla Waltersson Grönvall said that the government has completely scrapped the skills development opportunities of pre-colleagues. However, the budget bill, which was adopted in the Riksdag in December, says that as of 2016, 200 million will be allocated to skills development efforts for teachers in primary, preschool and other school forms. Nevertheless, to argue in the speaker's chair that the government has completely scrapped efforts to develop the skills of preschool teachers is hypocritical. You should not go untruthing in the Parliament's pulpit. You should stick to the truth even when you criticize the efforts of different parties.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-906	Mr President, I would like to There is nothing that revitalises the Committee on Education more than having such an uplifting preschool debate as we have today, when we focus on the very youngest children. I am of the opinion that it is good when the members of the Committee on Education stick to the truth and invest in talking about the issue that we are going to discuss today, namely preschool. Pre-school staff's competence is one of the things that is in focus, and rightly so. What I have said in the speaker's chair today is absolutely true. Today there are 45 courses waiting to start the preschool lift, but they have not been able to do so because the Swedish government has stopped the lift. There is nothing today that the Swedish National Agency for Education can refer to that replaces the pre-school lift and the competence development that is there. I have in my hand a letter from the National Board of Education dated October last year. It notes that there is a considerable need for further training for staff. We have a huge need, and we have a letter addressed to the government. Despite this, we note that the Swedish National Agency for Education is not given the task of launching this, which works well. I would like to address my colleague, Mr Amin. What are you doing to ensure that something is happening now with regard to the courses that we see a great need for, namely multilingualism and science and technology, which unfortunately do not work in all the country's preschools? Talking doesn't work. Something has to happen now. You've missed a great chance to get this started already a few weeks ago.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-911	Mr President, I would like to Here we talk about courses when I countered the hypocrisy of the Swedish Parliament's pulpit claiming that the government has completely scrapped the skills development for preschool teachers. It's an untruth, and you shouldn't leave it here in the speaker's chair. You could say that we are betting more or that we are betting less, but you should not speak untruth in the speaker's chair. You in the Moderates were in power for eight years. You did not bet a penny, not a single one, on smaller groups of children, and now you say here in the speaker's chair that you are betting 1 billion, in opposition. Why didn't you spend a single span on smaller groups of children 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 or 2014, not a single one? Then you come here and counter us, who want to bet 830 million on smaller groups of children. You didn't do anything. We are investing billions in the education sector. We'll bet an extra 5 billion. This is the biggest investment that has been made in Sweden's history. The education budget is increased by over 5 billion. We have made that effort. I've read through your suggestions. You have spent eight years in power, but you did not implement one of the proposals you have reservations about. Now you come here, when you are in opposition, and say both one and the other. You're supposed to stick to the truth.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-915	Mr President, I would like to Then I'll have to be very clear with my colleague Jabar Amin. First of all, is this the case or is it not the case that the preschool lift still exists? Is it not true that the preschool lift is stopped by the Swedish government? Secondly, would Mr Amin like to tell me where in Sweden we can now get qualified education and skills development as preschool staff? That would be very good, because no one else knows. The National Board of Education doesn't know. These are not lies, but truth. You can spend as much money as you want, but if you don't have any ideas about what to do with them and don't invest them in the right place, I want to say that you are betraying Sweden's preschool staff. And then you betray Sweden's children. When it comes to investing in smaller groups of children, it is an important part of the whole. I would like to address a third question to Mr Amin: what has happened, how does the investment you made in smaller groups of children look like and how much money is left in this account? I can see that the pre-school lift is one of the reforms and initiatives in recent years that have had the absolute best profit. We note that 97% of the committed funds were used in 2014 and 93% in 2015. One can look at the overall initiatives in Swedish educational history, and now we are talking about preschool – I want to hear answers about it. Tell me where the investments in preschool development and competence development are! Is the preschool lift stopped or not? Be honest, Jabar Amin!
i-6cd0216fb6947973-922	Mr President, I would like to I objected to the untruth that was put forward here in the speaker's chair, namely that the government has completely scrapped skills development efforts for preschool teachers. Now Camilla Waltersson Grönvall backs up and wants to talk about something else. You can have different opinions about which education should exist or not, but you should not bring out untruths.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-924	Now I'm talking. At least you have to respect the speaking time of the speaker, the Moderates. This is where you have the nerve to demand the facts from us after two months' budget. You spent eight years in power - eight years! The groups of children did not decrease. You didn't give a single crown to smaller children's groups. Our budget has been in force for two months and a day. You say: we want the answer. You'll get it at the end of your term of office when we've had our years. That is when you evaluate a government policy, not after two months and a day. I note that the most important issues here are children's groups, the focus on preschool staff and the outdoor environments of preschools. These are very important questions. You didn't bet a single penny on them during your eight years in power. It's a fact, and it's a fact.
i-B9mjGrCjxEQ2NURheBUW1f	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's report 7 includes both the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on hazardous waste and exercise in the area of waste, recycling and recycling. The committee shares both the Swedish National Audit Office's and the current government's view that regulatory responsibility for shipments of hazardous waste must be clearly organised and distributed to ensure the quality of operations. The committee also believes that the amendments presented by the government, the mandates given to the county boards concerned and the work under way will improve effective supervision of shipments of hazardous waste. In addition, the government is also reviewing the penal rules. It is important that sanctions are effective, adapted to the seriousness of the offence, but also dissuasive. Mr President, I would like to It is a remarkable journey that we have made about the collection of our waste in Sweden's municipalities. I thought I'd start by looking back a little. Believe me, it's not a crappy question, if the expression is allowed. It is an important issue that is essentially about how we are to develop and transform our society into a more sustainable society. We have been a leader in recycling our waste. We've been proud. But we cannot turn a blind eye to changing the world around us, to tightening up the requirements and the task. During the eight years we had a bourgeois government in Sweden very little happened to increase recycling. There are still 30 to 40 per cent of the unsorted waste bag's contents to be recycled. At the same time, developments have not stopped in our neighbouring countries. Several other EU countries are skilled at recycling and companies are better at avoiding unnecessary packaging. This is shown in the statistics. Germany recycles 45 percent, while in Sweden we are 36 percent. In terms of the amount of household waste, a number of countries are better than Sweden and have managed to reduce waste much more. Food waste is an important resource that can become compost or biogas. Here in Sweden we are in fact far behind. Only 14% are used in Sweden, while Austria, for example, uses 40%. The European Commission has assessed that a stronger target for recycling 70% of waste recycling by 2030 would provide half a million jobs in the EU. Mr President, I would like to Our own waste is a valuable mine that can provide jobs and income to society, as well as reducing our environmental impact. Perhaps that is why the bourgeois government set up an investigation. At that time, the four bourgeois parties, who want to stop development here today, agreed that something had to be done. Note that this is the proposal made by the bourgeois government's investigation that our government has said should be implemented in the government declaration. There is massive support in the country for this reform. This showed not least the debate article signed by 16 leading municipal representatives from all political camps. Among them are Johan Hultberg's party colleague the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Växjö, Bo Frank, and Kristina Yngwe's party partner the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of my home county of Leksand, Ulrika Liljeberg. Let me take a quote from the article: our municipalities are responsible for the collection of packaging and newspapers and the producers are responsible for recycling, so we can make it easy for people to do the right thing and thus achieve the environmental objectives. ..................................................... Why do you go so clearly towards your highest party representatives in the municipalities? They're the ones in charge of the business, aren't they? Why can you claim here in Stockholm that you know better than your party colleagues, who work daily to meet the fundraising goals? Mr President, I would like to Today, there are some individual companies that are making a lot of money from the problem that we have with the collection. It is the companies that have signed agreements with tenant-owner associations to collect their packaging. The members of the association will then have to pay twice for the same thing. They pay when they buy the packaging, where the collection is to be included, and then they pay the rent because a company collects and does what they should do for free. These companies have invested a lot of lobbying money to maintain the current system. Is it so that you listen to them in the general bourgeoisie rather than to your own party comrades in the country? To conclude, Mr President, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 2, which is supported by the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. The reason for this is that we Social Democrats believe that it needs to be easier for everyone to live environmentally friendly in everyday life. With a simpler and more coherent collection of household waste, we believe that more resources can be recovered. That is why we want municipalities to be given overall responsibility for collecting waste, packaging and newspapers from households, while at the same time the responsibility for recycling remains with the producers. We want to make it clear that welfare and jobs are built sustainably where resources are used wisely and efficiently. Measures are therefore needed to increase waste sorting, recycling and resource efficiency. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal and reject the other reservations.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-953	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the transport of hazardous waste. The committee agrees with the government's letter on the report. The Swedish National Audit Office gives some advice on how supervision should work better. Some measures have actually been implemented, and that is a good thing. It is important that work continues to improve the functioning of supervision and that statistics and data collected are reliable. We are also dealing with a number of exercises today. I believe that some of these will be the subject of the debate. In this connection, I should like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendments Nos 3 and 6. A majority in the committee also proposes that the Riksdag should approve two motions to ensure that the responsibility for the collection and recycling of packaging and newspapers remains with the producers. There is a reservation from S, MP and V. Here I support the committee's proposal. In August 2014, the Alliance government, with a regulation, decided that the responsibility would remain with the producers but that there would be stricter demands on the producers. The Alliance government also raised the targets for the collection and recycling of packaging, recycled paper and electronics at that time. The decision also meant that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was given clear supervisory responsibility and that producer responsibility was clarified. Permitted collection systems were introduced, i.e. those who want to carry out collection activities must have permission from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. More people will also have the opportunity to leave their waste near their homes. Mr President, I would like to The background to the decision was a report by the Waste Investigation, which made two proposals in August 2012. The first proposal was to transfer the physical collection responsibility to the municipalities. According to the investigation, this would lead to the monopolisation of the collection market and would require substantiated reasons as to why the restriction is necessary, in accordance with competition law requirements. The current rules differ as regards packaging under a regulation for municipalities to establish their own collection responsibilities. Collections can also be charged and included in the municipal waste tax. This does not apply to recycled paper. Moving the collection responsibility would mean that fractions included in the system might have to move to the municipalities. This could apply, for example, to 6 000 recycling centres. The municipalities would be given responsibility in this proposal for direct information to households, and producers would contribute to the costs of this. This involves major changes and costs in the case of shared responsibility, where there is always a risk of disputes. The second proposal from the investigation maintains and complements the current regime whereby producers are responsible for both the collection and disposal of packaging and newspapers, with a system in which pre-approved collection systems are put in place. By connecting producers to pre-approved schemes, one can say that producer responsibility is 100% fulfilled. It was this proposal that the alliance government amended in the regulation. Mr President, I would like to I believe that we all agree on increased targets and that it is important that we work on waste prevention as well as recycling, recycling and energy recovery in this order. However, as so often in politics, it is the path to a desired state that separates us. We therefore agree that the collection should be good and effective, but we do not agree on the methods, that is, the way there. On 24 June 2015, the current government appointed an investigation to investigate whether but how a change in the physical responsibility for packaging waste and recycled paper is to be designed. According to the mandate, responsibility should be transferred to the municipalities. The government is clear that responsibility should lie with the municipalities but that producer responsibility as such should remain. So it is a shared responsibility, and we do not think that is a good thing. Mr President, I would like to This is a complex system, and how costs are to be allocated is not an easy issue or an easy task to solve. We do not know what answers the investigation will come up with at the moment, as the investigation will be submitted by 31 March at the latest. However, it has emerged at hearings, for example, that the investigator believes that a shift of responsibility will be more expensive. Impact assessments are not sufficiently investigated. What will be better and more effective, and what will lead to more recycling, by shifting responsibility? Changing responsibilities would be a very big step and would entail many trade-offs between costs and responsibilities. The decision of the Alliance government by means of a regulation retained responsibility as it is today, which is a completely different matter from deciding to transfer responsibility by means of a regulation. I therefore believe that any decision to transfer responsibility is such a significant and comprehensive decision that it should be made by law and thus pass through Parliament. In addition, when there is today an announcement by a majority in Parliament that the responsibility should remain with the producers, a decision by the government via an amendment to the regulation would be a flagrant way of disregarding the Riksdag as the highest legislative body. In my opinion, the best thing would have been to close the question after the investigation has given its answer. In order to achieve the objectives, clear and long-term rules are needed. There is much we should do to increase collection and also to increase reuse, not just for packaging waste and recycled paper. Sweden is good at this, and we should be proud of that, but there is always more to do. A strengthened national authority with responsibility for planning, objectives, supervision, authorisation and dispute resolution will not be easier to achieve if a shared responsibility is introduced. That is why we believe it is better to maintain the chain of responsibility, and we want to strengthen the national authority. There is no impact assessment in the proposal to transfer responsibility. There is a lack of evidence to show that municipalisation would lead to an increase in recycling. A change that would involve a major shift in the system is only good if it provides more efficient waste management. This should not be introduced without having proper feet. That is why the committee's proposal for a decision on liability is: keep the responsibility of the producers, and let us work towards achieving the objectives and ensuring that the management is carried out in a good and effective way! It should be easy to do the right thing for households. I assume that the government does not decide otherwise through a change after today's announcement from the Riksdag. The issue would be too large and too wide-ranging to be decided by means of amendments to regulations. There must be a change in the law.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-976	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 5. We are debating waste issues today. It is an area where Sweden is still world class. As a rule, we also meet environmental objectives. It is a little symptomatic that the big issue today is really about a technicality in essence: who should be responsible for collecting packaging materials for recycling? From the point of view of the Swedish Democrats, this is not an ideological issue. We will use the model that makes it easiest for people to submit their waste so that it is taken care of and recycled – the system that enables the highest possible recycling rate. We can say a few things: Sweden has a system that has served us well for over 20 years. The rate of recovery is high. Environmental objectives are generally met. When it comes to the producer responsibility we have for both recycling and collection, the Swedish Democrats have not been able to see any studies showing that it would generally work badly or that any other model would increase recycling or make it easier for households to recycle. Of course, not all are gold and green forests. We have a garbage problem at too many recycling stations, but is it enough to destroy the system we have today? Here, as the Swedish Democrats see it, is the core. If we are going to change something, let us be clear about the consequences it will have and that this will improve the situation. If we are to give municipalities monopolies on the market, embark on difficult legal balances and restrict freedom of trade, we must have very strong reasons to do so. At this point, it is not difficult to suspect that the underlying reasons for the heated nature of the issue are that some are anxious to have the market for themselves. That is never a good starting point for a change in legislation. We have a robust system that works. If responsibility were to be transferred to a very large number of municipalities, we can see risks – risks that there is no reason to take in this situation. We have not yet been able to find out whether there are any strong reasons for a change, and there is no impact assessment. For this reason, we Swedish democrats support the committee's proposal to maintain producer responsibility also for recycling. We've taken note of the government's investigation. We find it strange in several ways. It is not a question of remedying or identifying problems. It is not a question of raising ambition. It's just that you've already decided how to do it. Mr President, I would like to I was going to change the subject. Another area that we Swedish democrats give high priority is the nearly 80 000 contaminated areas that we have in our country. At the current rate, this is estimated to take several decades and cost tens of billions of dollars to fix. Given the fragility of the state's finances due to an irresponsible policy of this and previous governments, there is reason to be concerned that it will take even longer. There are two fundamental aspects to this. Above all, we have an environmental debt to future generations, which we must regulate. It is unsatisfactory that there are thousands of areas in our country that pose a danger to human health. Of course, it is essential that the person who caused the damage should also pay for the clean-up, but unfortunately it is often impossible. The responsibility lies with the state. We believe that the state must take a clearer responsibility here. The Swedish Democrats want to intensify the work and have allocated increased funds to this in our budget. However, there is also an important legal-economic aspect to this. Investors are currently experiencing uncertainty when it comes to investing in properties where there have been industries in the past. The purchaser of land may be obliged to pay for the clean-up of things caused by previous owners. This creates a risk for investors. They are at risk of having to take responsibility for contaminated land for which they are reasonably not responsible. This can be costly for the individual operator, it seems to restrain investment, it does not contribute to creating more jobs and it does not contribute to any environmental benefit whatsoever. This can also contribute to delaying the clean-up due to long legal disputes. Today, there is evidence that companies allow businesses to be liquidated in order to avoid lengthy processes and that companies are reluctant to expand their activities on existing industrial land due to concerns about clean-up costs. Instead, they seek uninfluenced industrial land, leading to inefficient land use and capital destruction. It is our view that individual operators, who come in as owners of land at a stage long after the pollution has taken place and who are not linked to previous owners, should not have to take responsibility for this pollution. In the end, everyone must be prepared to shoulder environmental responsibility for their ownership and business. However, the state must take greater responsibility, both for environmental reasons and for the economy not to be unduly affected. In order to make this possible, it is important to investigate how clean-up can take place more socio-economically. The environmental code's rules on the liability of the polluter should be reviewed in order to reduce uncertainty and increase the efficiency of cleaning up land. Mr President, I would like to Another area that we prioritise from the Swedish Democrats is the work of tackling the problem of the presence of plastic in marine environments. The material is spread, broken down and absorbed by live animals, and it is a problem that affects all of us. It is about 4-12 million tons of plastic that ends up in our seas every year. This is an international problem, and it must be tackled both nationally and internationally. Because we are the country with the longest coastline, it is also clear that this is an issue in which we can actually make a real difference. A comprehensive approach is needed in this area. Increased resources are needed, as we Swedish democrats have allocated in our draft budget. Measures must also be taken to reduce the overall use of plastic products and simply work to replace plastics with a high environmental impact with more environmentally friendly alternatives.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-992	Mr President, I would like to Every year millions of tons of garbage are dumped into the oceans. Plastic objects make up most of the trash. Global production of plastics has increased dramatically, from 0.5 tonnes per year in 1950 to 260 million tonnes per year in 2008. Plastic waste in the oceans is one of the biggest global environmental problems, according to the UN. More than 1 million birds and 100,000 mammals die every year worldwide after being caught in or eaten plastic found in the sea. Plastic also contains chemical additives that can be endocrine disrupting or carcinogenic. The contamination of microplastics poses a serious threat to the organisms living in the seas and also to human health. They can penetrate tissues and cause damage or disturbances in metabolism and reproduction. A study conducted by Stockholm University's Baltic Sea Centre shows that the Baltic Sea is added between 13 and 39 tons of microplastics each year from hygiene products alone. And then hygiene products are only part of the sources of microplastics. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has for a long time been pursuing several proposals to reduce plastic waste in the oceans. We propose, among other things, at European level, that recycling and the ban on the disposal of plastic on open landfill sites be made compulsory. We want a ban on microplastics in hygiene and household products in Sweden. We want to introduce guidelines for reducing plastic use, because of course it is better not to use plastic at all than to recycle it. Our cooperation government has taken several important decisions on measures against microplastics since government entry in autumn 2014. The Government has, among other things, commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to map the spread of microplastics and propose measures against emissions. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to investigate how skin care products with microplastics can be banned. The Chemical Inspectorate's proposal is now being consulted. Mr President, I would like to With the municipalities responsible for collecting packaging and newspapers and the producers responsible for recycling, we can make it easy for people to do the right thing and thus achieve environmental objectives. One might think that this is cut out of the government declaration or from something that our Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson has said. But it's not. This invitation was delivered by a number of municipal councillors in a joint debate article in Svenska Dagbladet a few weeks ago. It has already been mentioned here in the debate that it was municipal councillors with different colours – moderates, social democrats, center parties and environmentalists. We recognise this appeal to take over the collection responsibility for all household waste and to make it easier for households to do the right thing. This is a line that SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, have been running for many years. When I listened to the previous speakers, I wondered if we were on the same planet. It was said that it was a technicality and that today's system is a robust system that works well. Have you been out trying to throw your garbage in the containers, for example, here in Stockholm and dragged on heavy bags late evenings or lassed in all the things that are outside the villa at home, as I who live in the country may do, and driven several kilometers to get rid of the garbage? You might wonder. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, Sweden has fallen behind when it comes to recycling waste. There are other countries in the EU that recycle more than we do. The waste investigation, which has also been mentioned earlier in this debate and which the previous government set up, notes that one reason why recycling is not increasing in Sweden is that consumers experience it as complicated and difficult. Paper, glass, plastic and metal – the responsibility of the packaging industry – must be collected and driven to special collection points, while the other must be sorted at home and picked up by the municipality. It makes it harder to sort things out. The investigation concluded that municipalities should be given collection responsibility. Households should be able to get all their waste collected from a principal. But, Mr President, the bourgeois parties in Parliament have ignored their own investigation. Instead of putting households and the environment at the centre of their attention, this report chooses to address an announcement to the government that they want a continued shared collection responsibility among a variety of actors. The question arises as to whether there are watertight shots between municipal and national level in the party organisations of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. Why don't you listen to your local politicians? Why do you MEPs from the Moderates, the Centers, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats want us to continue to drag heavy bags of milk cartons, plastic bags and bottles into overcrowded containers far away from our homes? You obviously think it's okay that much of what would be sorted ends up in the bag too combustible under the sink, that bag that it's so easy to throw in the trash can outside the house or in the rental house's garbage room, that bag that you don't have to go away with yourself. Mr President, I would like to The figures speak for themselves. In those municipalities or residential areas that have introduced sorting at their own expense at the property, we find much less food waste and packaging among the combustible compared to where the residents have to walk or drive away with the packaging, glasses and newspapers. The Green Party listens to both stressed parents of young children and wise councillors. We think it is necessary for both people and the environment to make the sorting of waste simple. We want the municipalities to be responsible for the collection of all waste. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support reservation 2 on the collection responsibility for packaging and more, which we have in common with the Social Democrats and the Left Party. In other respects, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1008	Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions. There was a lot of talk about the fact that moderate representatives also wrote the article. It was said that it was Johan Hultberg's party colleague. It's also mine, if I put it that way. However, there is not always agreement; I myself have been on Sysav's board for eight years and have had many discussions on this. So it is not that I know nothing about it. It is also the case that eight factions can be introduced even when responsibility remains. This is an example of my municipality of residence. There, by the way, the garbage trucks are driven on biogas. The honourable Member spoke of statistics. Eurostat's statistics are very uneven, because countries report in different ways. There are countries, such as Slovenia, which only report plastic packaging made in Slovenia – just to give an example. I believe that Sweden is at the forefront of the EU, and we shall continue to do so. We're gonna keep working on it. But you can't really trust these statistics, as they themselves say. Then I do not understand why it would be better just because the municipalities took over this. I also live in the country, so I do not leave here in Stockholm. I realize that it is difficult here, but it is just as difficult for the municipalities to do so. So I don't understand why things would get any better. Where is the evidence that it would be better and more effective if the municipalities took over?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1012	Mr President, I would like to I thank Gunilla Nordgren for this question. I don't think it's so hard to imagine that it would be easier if the same car that already today comes to pick up our combustible waste – and in the best cases also food waste, as in my municipality where we have been digesting waste since the mid-1990s – also retrieves the other garbage. Of course it's easier for households to handle garbage like that. That is also how many municipalities want to do. I agree with Gunilla Nordgren; some municipalities have already done so, on their own initiative. For it made it possible for the bourgeois government to do so. They have to bear the costs in a different way from what we now think, if we now have producer responsibility, that the municipalities should do. It was someone who said earlier in the debate that there are those who have to pay for packaging twice over – you have to pay for them when you buy them, and you have to pay to get rid of them. That's not how we think it should be. If we are to have producer responsibility, it should be producer responsibility. So that is my answer to the question. I believe that there are good conditions for municipalities to have this easier.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1015	Mr President, I would like to Today you drive a car with two factions. There are garbage trucks that can do that. I understand the problem in cities when it comes to having eight factions, for example. It's just to look at the city properties. It will be a matter of concern, because the properties are not adapted. It would have been desirable, yes, but the buildings as such are not built like that. We have that problem, of course, regardless of whether it is the producers or the municipalities who are responsible. That's what I meant. If you have eight factions you must at least have two cars, because there is no garbage truck that can take eight factions. Instead, some are more rarely emptied, and so it is a barrel that is often emptied. So the cars have to drive both times, and they will have to do so in the cities too. What I mean is that we should fight for a better system and help each other. After all, we agree on the objectives, but I do not think that I have been given an answer to the question of how it will be better just to introduce a shared responsibility. SKL says in its referral that they want the compensation to go through the state, i.e. that the state should pay the municipalities via the cost compensation system and then settle with the producers. It was SKL's referral, and I think that was making it a little easy. This is a huge system if you are to change and have these costs, and those consequences are not investigated. That is why the alliance government, and now we in the opposition too, concluded that it is better to keep what it is but to introduce a number of improvements along the way.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1018	Mr President, I would like to We have had the shared responsibility for fundraising since 1994. That's 22 years old. It has been criticised all that time, and we are many consumers who do not think it works. That is why the previous government set up an investigation, and it came out in that investigation that one should have a collective responsibility. This is also the case in many places in Europe, and the countries that do not have it today are in the process of actually moving to a collective responsibility for the collection – in line with the EU's efforts to increase the recycling of waste. It's a very important job. When it comes to impact assessment, we will see what the investigation, which is in the process of being dealt with, says. At least what we know is that it has not worked as it is today. We know that recycling has stopped and that we need a much higher rate of recycling of waste if we are to achieve our objectives and promote the environment. Finally, I would just like to say something about this with different cars and so on. There are different systems for sorting garbage, and one that I find exciting – and that I think they have in Västerås, among other things – is different color of the bags. You sort at home in different coloured bags, and then the car drives them. You don't have to have different fractions in the car either. There are therefore many variations that many municipalities are working on. What we know is that this needs to be better if we are to achieve our recycling targets.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1022	Mr President, I would like to Few environmental issues engage as much as collection and recycling. It is one of the most everyday environmental issues, and many people really want to contribute by sorting and handing in their milk cartons, glass bottles and newspapers. Swedish households are actually very good at this in a global comparison. There has also long been a discussion that it should be easier to be an environmental hero in everyday life. It should simply be easy to do the right thing. There have been criticisms that the producers, who are responsible for collection and recycling, have not offered sufficient service. It was against this background that the alliance government in 2014 decided to raise the requirements. This concerned both how much is to be collected and how much of this is to be recycled into new products and that more people will have the opportunity to leave their waste near their homes. In addition, the supervision of all producers was strengthened, and the municipalities were given more influence over how the collection should be done. This was welcomed by producers, municipalities and organisations. The fact that those who manufacture packaging should also be responsible for how they are handled is a key principle. As manufacturers pay for this handling, it is reasonable that they should also be responsible for the design, collection and recovery of packaging. Then they can optimize the entire chain and develop new solutions for environmentally smart management. Only last week, the Nordic competition authorities showed that there is great potential for better environmental performance and lower costs in a more market-based waste management. It is therefore surprising that instead of allowing the reforms presented by the Alliance Government to be fully implemented, the Red Green Government is tearing up and wanting to change the system. Now that the government has the opportunity to allow the new requirements to drive investments in systems and improvements for both households and the environment, it is decided to investigate again. Unfortunately, the government did not set higher targets or stricter requirements in terms of the environment and service when the investigation directives were written. The important thing therefore does not seem to be the results, but who is responsible for exhibiting containers and for transporting the collected material. It is therefore gratifying that a majority of the members of the Riksdag will today call on the Government not to change the collection responsibility. We assume that the government listens to the majority and does not go on to change the system but instead ensures to continue the improvement work launched by the Alliance in 2014. Mr President, I would like to Rather than undermining producer responsibility, this should be increased, both in Sweden and in Europe. Sweden and Europe simply need to become more resource efficient. For example, when it comes to textiles, Swedish consumers bought an average of 12.5 kg of new textiles in 2013. Of these textiles collected in Sweden in the same year, a total of 2.4 kilos of textiles were reused per person. The production of textiles has a major environmental impact on both water and chemical use. Many Swedish companies are working to collect textiles for recycling and reuse and with action plans for phasing out different substances. The Center Party wants to seize and accelerate this development by introducing producer responsibility so that more textiles in you are collected and recycled. What was considered worthless in the past is actually a resource today. However, the current regulatory framework is not designed for the possibilities of modern technology. In order to strengthen a circular economy, we also want to create incentives and simplify rules for the use of waste from mines and landfills, for example. It is therefore also important to create the conditions for a well-functioning European market and trade in materials for recycling, recycling services and secondary raw materials, which can lead to innovation, employment and better environmental performance. This requires the liberalisation of existing municipal monopolies around Europe, the development of European definitions and standards for recycled materials, ensuring that hazardous substances are not disseminated or recirculated, and ambitious common objectives. Mr President, I would like to The fact that large amounts of our garbage reach our seas is a known problem. On the Swedish west coast alone, several thousands of cubic metres are estimated to flow ashore each year. This, of course, is a major concern and a heavy burden on the municipalities that have to deal with the garbage of others. It is therefore important that these municipalities receive support in dealing with the debris flowing ashore along the beaches. At the same time, however, we must work to reduce the sources of marine debris, both the visible macro litter and the invisible micro-shrink such as microplastics from toothpastes, butts that are finely distributed, flakes from boat paints and leftovers of plastic bags. Last spring, the Swedish Parliament announced to the government that efforts to reduce the incidence of marine litter and microplastics in our water areas must be strengthened. The littering in our waters is a ticking environmental bomb. It is therefore very important that the government push ahead on this important issue. Many hygiene articles, such as toothpaste or shower gel, contain microplastics that are brought to our water when the treatment plants cannot handle them. This is why the Center Party wants all EU companies to phase out microplastics by 2020 and to introduce a national ban on microplastics in cosmetic products pending a phasing-out at EU level. But more efforts are needed to reduce the amount of litter in our waters. For example, butts and other tobacco products are not currently included in litter legislation. In order to reduce the presence of nicotine-containing micro-junk in our waters, we in the Center Party want these also to be covered by litter fines. Of the total amount of litter the objects in the oceans are about 60 – 90 percent made up of plastic. In order to reduce the amount of plastic in our waters, we therefore want to introduce a fee on plastic bags, in a first step for plastic bags made from fossil raw materials to also have a transition to more sustainably produced plastic. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but for the benefit of time, I would simply like to endorse reservations Nos 3 and 6.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1040	Mr President, I would like to In today's environmental issue Kristina Yngwe has a debate article that raises many questions. As in her speech just now, Kristina Yngwe there beats the big room and believes that the government's work to make it easier for households to sort and get rid of their waste would make it more difficult to recycle. She talks about monopolies and municipal bureaucrats who could not organise the collection of packaging and newspapers as well as companies and entrepreneurs. I don't think many of us consumers agree with her on this, because many of us probably feel on the contrary that the municipality's collection of combustible and food waste works much better and much easier than the junk, dark collection sites we need to get rid of the rest. So why doesn't Kristina Yngwe think that the municipalities could solve this in at least the same way as the packaging industry?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1042	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Stina Bergström, for your question! Of course, I have high confidence in the commitment that exists around the municipalities. As both Stina and the Member of the Social Democrats previously mentioned, there are different views on how this is best handled even among our representatives in the municipalities. We had a meeting at the end of September and had discussions there. Although there are different views on this, I feel very confident that the municipal representatives around the country think that the system that exists today is a well-functioning system that we should try to develop instead of dismantling. Just as Stina Bergström was in the past, there are places in the country where this doesn't work very well. That is also why the Alliance Government strengthened the environmental objectives previously set, and tried to provide the opportunity to make clearer requirements in terms of permits and also supervision. This is a work that will now be postponed, because a further investigation was set up instead of launching a work that could make this system work even better. In some municipalities it doesn't work very well, but in others it works very well. I think Mr Gunilla from the Moderates was very clear that there are municipalities where today's system works very well. I myself grew up in a municipality where there are eight factions and feel that it works well to live on a farm in the country and actually be able to sort near-house. What should be interesting for the government is instead to look at how we can improve the system and do it even better than it is today for more municipalities, not to go in and make a revolutionary reform, tear up and create uncertainty, but to create long-term conditions for both the packaging industry and the municipalities to know based on what they are working.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1049	Mr President, I would like to Just like I said in a previous line shift, this system is pretty old. We've had it since 1994. It has been criticised since then. Lena Ek appointed the Waste Investigation, and Lena Ek also welcomed the proposal that municipalities should be given responsibility for collecting all waste fractions to make it easier and increase the recycling rate. Of course, not all consultation bodies were in favour of the proposal. The packaging producers were, of course, afraid of increased costs. With a better recycling rate, there will of course also be more packaging in the end to take responsibility for. But the municipalities and the SKL, as in this case, as I see it, looked more at the interests of households, of course, welcomed the proposal. The Centre Party municipal councillors, Ulrika Liljeberg in Leksand and Ann-Marie-Marie Nilsson in Jönköping, are two of the signatories of the article in Svenska Dagbladet. And former urban councillor Per Ankersjö here in Stockholm is also a center party that has been rather diligent and written debate articles about the need for a municipal collection responsibility. I wonder, Kristina Yngwe, what makes these center parties not understand what is best for the environment and consumers. What is it that Kristina Yngwe knows and understands that they do not?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1054	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. I am absolutely convinced that even in the Green Party there are a number of highly topical issues where there are quite different views among municipal environmental party representatives compared to national level. I don't know if you should take it as a secret that we don't listen to our municipal representatives just because there are individual municipal representatives around the country who have a different view from what you have if you work nationally. The Alliance government ensured with the change made in 2014 that those municipalities that want to tighten up their work and find good cooperation with packaging producers and the newspaper industry can actually tighten up their work locally and find solutions. I think the example that Mrs Bergström gave earlier, to have different colours on the bags, is a very interesting way. Why not be able to use it in more municipalities? The City of Stockholm could introduce it in more areas. There is nothing to prevent this from happening today. There are several municipalities, and Stina Bergström himself mentioned Västerås municipality, where this system exists and works very well. I do not quite understand why we want to tear up a system that works well in many parts of the country and has potential for improvement. Instead of looking at how we can improve today's system, we want to tear up, make changes, push things forward, create uncertainty and have no long-term perspective. It is a pity that you choose this path instead of digging where you stand and trying to improve on the basis of the conditions that exist.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1057	Mr President, I would like to The report deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the transport of hazardous waste and the Government's letter on it. The Government's letter states that supervision and sanctions should be strengthened. I am pleased that everyone in here welcomes these reforms, and I will not dwell on that discussion. Instead, I will talk about waste, just as many others have done before me. This is an issue we reflect on, not least, when we drag large bags of cartons, plastic changers, canned cans, newspaper and other things into the green collection containers and are met by the fact that they are already overcrowded and dirty. Then just move on to another green fundraiser and hope for better luck there. Is it easy to live environmentally friendly then? No, it's not. But unfortunately this is how the collection of packaging and newspapers is done in most municipalities in Sweden. The responsibility for collecting packaging and newsprint lies with producers, i.e. companies. The responsibility for collecting the remaining household waste lies with our municipalities. Thus: Oat milk packaging and Dagens Nyheter should be placed in a green container somewhere out on the town while food residues and dust rats should be placed in the garbage container at my home. Is this simple? No. Is it good for the environment? No. Does that make any sense? Hardly, if you want a rational and efficient collection system. And that's something that all of us in here want, I hope. It was therefore no coincidence that the Waste Investigation Report on Sustainable Society proposed that municipalities should be given the overall responsibility for the collection of all waste, including packaging and newspapers, just over three years ago. The municipalities collect the remaining waste from households, so the logical solution is to give them the overall responsibility. That's how the investigation was reasoned. Despite the fact that this task should be quite simple, the previous government put this matter on a long leash. However, two weeks before the elections there was some energy, and at one of the last meetings of the government it was decided to depart from its own investigation proposal and suggested that the fragmentation of the collection responsibility should persist. Companies would continue to be responsible for the collection of packaging and newspapers, and municipalities would be responsible for the remaining waste. I asked myself why. Why this complex and completely irrational system? We now see the same proposal in today's report. It has been written by a majority of the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats. These parties think that everything should continue as before with regard to responsibility. I ask myself again why. Could there be an ideological blockage here? Could it be that the bourgeois opposition, supported by the Swedish Democrats, has a little difficulty in acknowledging that certain things are simply best managed by our municipalities, in this case all the garbage collection? Why are you going against your own investigation that suggested that the municipalities should be given the overall responsibility? Why are you bourgeois against almost all the heavy referrals? Gunilla Nordgren from the Moderates! Why do you fail 290 hardworking municipalities that are prepared to shoulder the overall responsibility for waste, including packaging and newspapers? Why do you put the market ahead of the environment? That is the only reasonable conclusion I can draw from this. You want to build a trading system for this so that companies can earn paper from newspaper and other things. You think it is more important than that we should build a unified, rational system for this. Gunilla Nordgren, Martin Kinnunen, Kristina Yngwe and all the rest of you with whom I am debating here tonight! Reality speaks against you. The municipality of Helsingborg has long had a real estate system for collecting packaging and newspapers. In Helsingborg, recycling of plastic and metal is more than twice as large as the national average. The collection of newsprint and paper packaging is also well above the national average. Södertörn municipalities in the Stockholm region have a similar system, and Västerås and many other municipalities have decided on a real estate fundraising and assume their responsibilities. Why are you speaking against reality? This issue is so important because we Swedes produce more and more waste. Nowadays, we throw away about 500 pounds per person per year. This is an increase of about 50% over the last 20 years. That should be a good argument for giving our municipalities the overall responsibility for all waste collection. Of course, producers should continue to have their producer responsibility. This can be solved relatively easily by paying our municipalities for the service they do when collecting packaging and newspapers. Should we have a system of collective responsibility in our municipalities, we would not only have a better system for our households and citizens. That would of course also be a huge benefit for the environment and for efficient waste collection as such. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2 which is about giving the municipalities overall responsibility for all waste collection. Mr President, I would like to I will also say a few words about the Left Party's reservation 4 on creating incentives for the circular economy. Much can be done to ensure a more circular economy. What does a circular economy mean? You can contrast it with today's economy based on toil and toss and that you should constantly buy new gadgets. We think it is important that systems are built up that make it easy to repair, recycle, reuse and so on. A lot of things can be done in this area. I think the majority of the committee's response to the reservation is not entirely acceptable. Reference is made to the European Commission's proposal on the circular economy, but we know that not one of these proposals is legally binding. We also know that the European Commission's so-called waste package is quite far from what we can expect if we are to take clear steps towards a circular economy. That's why reservation 4 is so important.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1080	Mr President, I would like to I have some questions, Jens Holm. You said it should be easy to do the right thing – we agree on that – and that it doesn't work in most municipalities. I would like to know where that survey is – that it does not work in most municipalities. The Alliance government made this change, i.e. the investigation came up with two proposals, one of which was to transfer responsibility. In my speech, I mentioned, among other things, that this can be difficult from the point of view of the Competition Authority. The investigation also made an alternative proposal, namely to keep it but to give the national authority – the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency – a supervisory responsibility, when permission is to be applied for for collection systems and so on. There were some improvements decided in 2014. I don't know exactly what day they came into effect. But perhaps we should leave it alone and not just say that it has been like this since 1992. When it comes to SKL, the board has done this, but they have not always been so much in agreement. I have a municipal history myself, so I know it's not so unanimous. SKL says in his answer: Give us increased state subsidies that even out in cost equalisation. How is that supposed to be fair? I understand that Jens Holm cannot answer that, but I was a little disappointed by SKL's answer. That's a little knock-off.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1084	Mr President, I would like to I think if you travel around, Gunilla Nordgren, and look at how it looks around Sweden, you can also agree that the collection of packaging and newspapers leaves quite a lot to be desired. You can ask virtually anyone at one of those green, dark and dirty fundraisers: Do you think it feels good to go to this dirty, green and dark igloo when the municipality could bring the cans, newspaper paper and cartons along with the rest of your household waste? I am quite sure that most of our citizens would agree that the most rational thing would be to let the garbage man take with him not only the garbage bag but also the newspapers, cartons and cans, just as the Waste Investigation and SKL suggest, just as a variety of local politicians from the right to the left argue for and just as the Villa owners' National Association wants. I don't know how many referrals I could line up here, but I can ask you a question, Gunilla Nordgren. If we turn it around, we see that it works well in municipalities where you go ahead and have a real estate fundraising. We can take Helsingborg, which is quite close to your neighborhood. We know that they collect twice as much metal and plastic as the national section and that they are far above the national section even in the case of the other fractions. Why, Gunilla, can we not make sure that Helsingborg's example becomes the example of the whole of Sweden, when we see how well it works there?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1088	Mr President, I would like to I've been traveling around, too. There are municipalities where it works just fine. There are often problems in urban areas because the properties are built so that it is difficult to get in. There is no difference if it is the producers or the municipalities who are responsible, but we still have this problem and will try to do something about it. Local authorities would need new procurements and refuse vehicles. I have done this myself in my municipality of residence. If you're going to have several fractions, the garbage trucks look different. Property-related fundraising would be great, and I think we should keep working for that. Helsingborg, where it is a moderate chairman of the municipal board, has worked on this a lot. They have their own waste company and a system that works. I call for what is the difference between the municipalities taking over and the fact that we still have what it is now. The municipalities can make a good collection even with the system we have today. I'm calling for the difference. It is not easy to change reimbursements and so on. Jens must realize that too-- it's not a thing you do in an afternoon. There is a lot of money to change places, via government grants, according to SKL.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1093	Mr President, I would like to The big difference is that one system – the current, fragmented system – does not work very well at all. The second system is rational and efficient. When the garbage man, or for that matter, picks up the garbage bag from my house, they also take my boxes, cans, and newspaper. Gunilla! Is not the most rational system to do as they do in moderate-led Helsingborg and in Åstorp, Båstad, Västerås and the waste municipalities in the Stockholm area, namely collect all the garbage at the same time? I think that reality speaks clearly here. Then there is the question of the cost, which you raise. I think it can be solved. As you said earlier, I cannot give a detailed answer to that, but I am quite sure that the issue can be resolved. There are already estimates of approximately how much money the municipalities would be compensated for. Actually, it's more about finding a payout system. After all, we have this in a number of other areas, so why should we not have it in the case of waste?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1095	Mr President, I would like to I often get to talk after Jens Holm and get to lower the table every time, but that's how it should be – it's good that it can be done. I support the proposal contained in the report, except in paragraph 6, on household recycling, and paragraph 9 on beach cleaning, where the Liberals have reservations along with the other alliance parties. As far as reservations are concerned, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 6, which deals with beach cleaning. I will also be content to make a few points in the report. This has been the case throughout the debate. As regards the Government's letter to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the supervision of shipments of hazardous waste, it is only to be noted that there are certain shortcomings and that various measures are taken to address them. There is not much to add on this point, so I think we can leave it there. With regard to the post-treatment of contaminated areas, we seem to be pleased to be in full agreement that this is an important issue, not least in areas that can be used for housing construction. That is precisely why, when we had the budget discussion last autumn, we raised another EUR 25 million in the Liberals' draft budget in addition to what has now been allocated by the government for the coming years. Mr President, I would like to If we go to the point of collection responsibility, I think it has been very graphic descriptions of miserable environments where you should have collection, but it is very black and white in the discussion. Clearly, there are places where it does not work, as has been mentioned on many occasions. I don't recognize the picture that it looks like that, at least not in my municipality of residence. I do not really know what this is, but perhaps because there is good cooperation between producers and municipalities. An assignment was given in June 2015. An investigator would look at how the collection responsibilities of producers with regard to packaging and recycled paper should be transferred to the municipalities. It's not about how it's done. It's about how it's done. Now we do not have an answer to the question yet, but it will come by 31 March at the latest. Even now, I want to make it clear that the Liberals do not want to go in that direction. We therefore support the committee's clear position that the responsibility for the collection of packaging and recycled paper should remain with the producers, in the light of the stricter requirements and objectives set by the then alliance government in a number of regulations in August 2014. Basically, it is a matter of not changing an integrated and cost-effective system. There is a lot about the polluter-pays principle and there should be incentives in the system. It is also a question of a functioning economic activity linked to this. Why should we endanger it? We have tightened the requirements and tightened the targets, and it has been a year and a half. The natural thing is that we let it go for another time and make an assessment of the outcome. It is hoped that most decisions will be made. If there is any further change in the system, it is, of course, welcome to do so. Our position in the majority of the committee is that we want to give a clear signal to the government by means of an announcement. We want to show that there is no parliamentary majority to change the system – that producer responsibility should remain unchanged. I get the feeling that the question must come to Parliament, because it is a very fundamental change that should happen in that case. It has been said that it is an ideological issue, an ideological lock-up. One can in itself admit that there is ideology at the bottom. But then you can ask the question who has the ideological locks. When you hear the debate, it seems that only the municipalities will be able to handle it. But I can't see that's the answer to the problem. Mr President, I would like to Then to another waste: marine debris. It was well described by the Centre Party's Kristina Yngwe what the sea is full of. You know that the most common litter in the sea is cigarette butts, if you look at numbers, not volume, but that is still something to consider. Cleaning the beaches costs our municipalities a large amount of money. Not least on the west coast and the Bohus coast, it is a huge problem. It is of course important that Sweden works internationally and pushes on this issue. There are many organisations. We have Ospar and Helcom, where you can work with those questions, and so is being done. There is also something called Kimo, where you work to stop littering at the source. Despite this, we will have to face reality. Beach cleaning will be needed for the foreseeable future. It is very important that it is done. It's not just that it's scary to see. It is, of course, a very negative factor for tourism and tourism to have littered beaches. But it is also about something more fundamental that has also been discussed about microplastics. There are microplastics in cosmetics. But even the plastic that lies on the beaches falls apart and becomes secondary microplastic, which is a concept I have seen. It enters ecosystems with health effects on both humans and animals. The fact that this is a huge problem is quite clear. The beaches must be cleaned. It is then natural for the state to assume long-term responsibility at the appropriate level. It is not the inhabitants of the coastal municipalities who generate this rubbish. You can draw a parallel to our major national roads. They are cleaned by Trafikverket because one cannot conclude that it is the inhabitants of the municipality where the road one is located that has generated the dirt. In this case, I think it is even clearer that this is the case. As far as the Liberals are concerned, we already had this in our draft budget. We put 15 million a year forward. It is not project money, but it is the level that we now believe the municipalities need. With this in mind, I would also like to express my support for reservation 6.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1113	Mr President, I would like to I would like to know what the Liberals think. If any credible source presented a system for collecting packaging and newspapers that was more efficient and rational, had a greater popular base and were generally better for the environment, would the Liberals then be prepared to reconsider their current position and assist such a system? It must – I hope – be the collection in itself that is the important thing. Then, Mr President, I have another question. It is in the majority text, against which we red-greens have reserved, that you want to build a system in which the conditions for closer cooperation with, and influence for, the municipalities are strengthened. That's what it says on page 16. Then I would like to ask Lars Tysklind: In which of the two systems do the Liberals believe that the influence and cooperation of the municipalities are best placed, a system in which companies continue to collect the packaging and newspapers or a system in which the municipalities are given the overall responsibility?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1115	Mr President, I would like to I can take the last of it first. If the municipalities are going to take care of everything, we are not talking about cooperation, but we are talking about a monopoly where you control only from the municipality's side. The first question is very hypothetical. What we have to take a position on now is the working system that we have versus letting the municipalities take over the whole responsibility. But you can't show that somehow things would get better. With stricter demands on targets and on producers, we believe that this will work. It has worked well in many municipalities and, of course, in some. But we still get, Jens Holm, to agree on this: When I talk about black and white, it is as if only the municipalities would be able to handle this would be good. We see this everywhere. When we discuss care for the elderly and whatever we discuss, we see that there are good and bad variants in terms of both private and public activities. It's gonna be a little skewed to talk like that. But if we stick to this with the collection and producer responsibility: I think it is a good thing, and on the Liberal side we think it is good to see the tightening up that has been done, and we want to see the outcome of this. To tear the system apart again and hand over responsibility to the municipalities we can see would be of no benefit to anyone.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1119	Mr President, I would like to As regards my question of a more efficient and rational collection that is better for the environment: if you look at the municipalities that take responsibility for the collection also for packaging and newspapers, we can see that it works better. In Helsingborg, they recycle twice as much as the national section. This is perhaps also why Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils want the municipalities to be given the overall responsibility. You speak a little against yourself when, on page 16 of the report, you say that you want to strengthen the role of municipalities in the system. But if you want to strengthen the role of municipalities, you should give them full responsibility for the collection. Otherwise, if you do not think that such a system is the system that gives municipalities greater influence, you have to almost frustrate the reality. I can ask you this: Do the Liberals have an example of a municipality where responsibility has been taken and a real estate collection has been introduced and where recycling has gone down a lot, so that the system has become worse when the municipality has taken over responsibility?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1122	Mr President, I would like to Then there'll be some kind of negative evidence. There are certainly such examples too. The municipalities where it works best are where there is a good dialogue between those who have producer responsibility and the municipality. These could include, for example, such simple things as the agreement on the location of recycling stations, the release by municipalities of central and good land areas that are easily accessible to the people. You are often closest to yourself, and you know how it works in your own municipality of residence. In my municipality of residence, it has worked very well. Then there is the question of statistics and what is collected in different municipalities. We'll have to look at that too. I do not know whether the example of Helsingborg depends only on the collection system or whether it depends on other things. I can mention that in Strömstad we are outstanding in the country at collecting glass. But it is for the simple reason that the ferries evict ashore glass on the quay. We have statistics that are not really possible. There are a lot of statistics from different municipalities. We need to analyse why things are going so well in Helsingborg. This may in fact be due to very good cooperation between producers and municipalities. I don't know about that.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1125	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the monitoring of environmentally hazardous transports and found shortcomings. This is described in the report. The committee agrees with the government that, among other things, the environmental inspection regulation should be amended so that supervisory responsibility is streamlined and concentrated on the five county boards in Gävleborg, Norrbotten, Skåne, Stockholm and Västra Götaland where most cross-border waste shipments take place. We have no differences of opinion. On the question of the so-called post-treatment of contaminated areas, the committee notes that there are still many contaminated areas in Sweden that need to be addressed, i.e. the clean-up of contaminated land, so that they do not pose threats. The report shows that the pace of clean-up work needs to be stepped up. With the help of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposals on how to increase funding, this should also be possible to do. With regard to what we have debated most today, namely the responsibility for the collection of packaging, I would like to support the committee's proposal under paragraph 5. The Swedish Parliament therefore supports the committee's statement that responsibility for the collection and recycling of packaging and newspapers should continue to lie with the producers and announce this to the government. In our everyday lives, each of us gives rise to large amounts of packaging and other waste that can be both a resource and an environmental problem. With the help of good waste management, more and more products can be reused and recycled. The individual's efforts in waste management play a crucial role in achieving recycling targets. This requires the existence of efficient infrastructure so that it can be easily accessible to both producers and consumers. As we have heard many people say today, it should be easy to do the right thing. Mr President, I would like to Since the 1990s, the responsibility for the recycling of packaging in Sweden has rested with the producers according to the principle, which is also stated in the investigation, that the polluter pays. The Alliance government decided in August 2014 on a new waste regulation. This means that responsibility for the collection of packaging waste and recycled paper should remain with the producers, while at the same time severely tightening the requirements on the producers in particular. The Alliance also raised the target for the collection and recycling of packaging, recycled paper and electronics and tightened the requirements for households to have access to simple and clear collection systems. Important steps are the prevention of waste and the best recycling of materials. The aim of the amendments was to strengthen the system while making use of investments already made in order to achieve the objectives and requirements set in a cost-effective way. The committees believe that there is no reason to change this well-established and cost-effective system. Mr President, I would like to However, immediately after the 2014 elections, the new government announced its intention to transfer responsibility from the producers to the municipalities. The Government's line means that packaging producers receive less incentives to develop new and resource efficient packaging solutions. Several municipal representatives, whom we have heard mentioned earlier in the debate, have recently argued that new recycling targets require municipalities to take over responsibility for packaging and newspaper collection. At the same time, the industry is willing to take on more responsibility. There are therefore two different elements here which show a great deal of responsibility and interest in this. The industry also proposes to introduce a control station in 2018 to monitor, evaluate, reach and preferably exceed the government's goals. I therefore believe that Parliament should announce to the government its view that responsibility, collection and recycling of packaging should remain with the producers. In this way, we act in a subsidiary way, that is to say, in a supportive way, towards the business community that is currently responsible. The public should not take over or deprive the responsibility of the private, but support and cooperate to achieve the objectives set. Mr President, I would like to We need to be better at using waste and increasing recycling opportunities. It needs to be easy for households and businesses to contribute to this. The high proportion of recycling of waste in Sweden is of course positive. We Christian Democrats want to work for it to increase further. In recent years, however, imports of refuse for incineration in Sweden have increased significantly. There are certainly positive effects in terms of increased energy supply, and this reduces the amount of landfills in countries with fewer opportunities for efficient combustion in cogeneration plants. But in the waste hierarchy, energy recovery, i.e. incineration of waste, is the second worst solution from a climate point of view. It must be made even easier for households to submit materials for recycling, reuse, collection – not least in textiles, clothing and electronics. I request the approval of reservation 3, that is to say, Parliament approves motion 2015/ 16:1362 18. Mr President, I would like to Kristina Yngwe mentioned previously illustrating how large amounts of waste from the sea wash into the beaches, and the coastal municipalities take responsibility for the garbage. That's a problem for them. The trash gathers, and they take responsibility. I think it is more fair for the state, through the Maritime and Water Authority, to take financial responsibility for the beach cleaning. I therefore support the Alliance's joint reservation 6 in paragraph 9 on beach cleaning.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1138	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help commenting on the debate on collection responsibility. Both sides stand here and argue that we must not in any way deprive the producers of their responsibilities. Nobody wants to deprive the producers of their responsibilities. Then there is talk of ideological lock-ups. For me – and I believe that this is the case for every municipal citizen – it is more about financial lock-ups. I do not think it is right and proper for the municipalities to go out and collect what the producers are responsible for without an agreement that makes the municipalities financially compensated for this. Then we consumers will have to pay twice. That's why the government has put forward this proposal so that it is done better and the municipalities are compensated. Today, many of the municipalities that have been put forward as a good example have to pay for the garbage twice. It can't be right and proper. Mr President, I would like to I was going to say a few words about the world's largest dump: the sea. We humans have always used the sea as a dump, and we do so even today. The difference today is that the material that we throw, flush down or otherwise adds to the sea takes an enormous amount of time to break down – if it is broken down at all. Bioaccumulative substances are still detected and present a future threat. The dioxin is a very big problem that we do not know how to deal with. Our bottom colors have a negative impact on organisms. 90 percent of all the garbage in the ocean is plastic. The sea and its wildlife are being suffocated by plastic particles with which humans fertilize the oceans. Most of the plastic and other littering of the sea comes from the shore. Some things are now being done by the authorities and municipalities. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management shall promote efficient and sustainable collection of, among other things, lost fishing gear, in collaboration with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, develop a national information campaign on litter in the marine environment and support initiatives that promote beach cleaning in areas particularly affected. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will include marine litter in relevant waste plans, including municipal waste plans, and investigate instruments to reduce the presence of plastics in the marine environment. In their waste plans, municipalities will highlight how waste management can help to reduce the occurrence of marine litter. But this is far from enough. Much debris is derived from products of different kinds that contain plastic particles and that are not taken care of by the treatment plants. Greater pressure must be put on the companies that produce these goods, and it is likely that legislation will ultimately have to do so. Mr President, I would like to The littering of our beaches has always been a hot topic for discussion here in the parliamentary debates. Then it is primarily about who should pay the cleaning. Is it the state, is it the municipality or is it perhaps even the EU that should pay? The proposals have been many, but it has always been the municipalities that have had to pay. Not least in Bohuslän, we are affected by this, mainly because the Bohus coast is a dump site for the states around the North Sea and the traffic in the North Sea as the currents bring all the shit to the Bohuslän coast. 20 000 tonnes of litter end up in the North Sea every year. In volume it is 220 000 cubic metres. Most of this sinks to the bottom, so one might well wonder what it looks like in the North Sea. During our election campaign, all parties say that municipalities should not have to bear the cost of this but that it is a national responsibility. When the Alliance took over power in 2006, the first thing they did was to remove support for beach cleaning that the municipalities received through labour market measures. In the nine alliance budgets produced there has been no money intended for beach cleaning. When the Alliance got its budget through after the 2014 elections, there was no money for beach cleaning even though they stood in different debates and said: The state should stand for it! Now the government has put in a budget where there is finally money for the beach cleaning – 8 million by 2018. In addition, municipalities now have the opportunity to re-apply for services for beach cleaning in the labour market measures account. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to review the issue so that it gets a long-term solution. That assignment must be presented in the autumn so that it can become a workshop before the end of the term of office. Mr President, I would like to If it is ever so unfortunate that we have a bourgeois government, let us hope that the first thing it does is not to remove the support for the beach cleaning once again and that we then have to wait until the bourgeois find themselves in opposition again before they want to talk about adding funds from the state. In their reservation that the state should take a greater share of the responsibility for beach cleaning in the long term, they should probably be interpreted as a pious hope and not as a greater responsibility for the state. Mr President, I would like to Now we have a government that takes great responsibility for beach cleaning and does not express pious hopes that this will be the case.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1161	Mr President, I would like to This year's report on rural policy is a bit of a repeat of the debate we had in MJU a year ago in this House. The report today contains 74 demands for exercise from the general period of exercise and concerns elements such as the rural development programme, simplification of rules, competitiveness and the environmental impact of agriculture. Unfortunately, the government chooses to bury all the good proposals in this report in ongoing preparatory work and investigations. It is something that is becoming significant for this government. Promised proposals will be postponed for the future and no proposals will be submitted to the House on time. It is sad for Sweden and fatal for the Swedish countryside. We naturally support our reservations, but in order to save time, we choose Moderates to ask for the approval of reservations 1, 6 and 7. These are proposals that would make it both simpler and more productive for Swedish rural areas. Policies need to be developed, and rural policy is no exception. The first thing the current government did in the rural area was to remove the well-functioning Matlandet, an initiative that both led to more jobs in rural areas and put Swedish production, exports and culture on the map. In the Government Declaration, the Prime Minister has launched the idea of a food strategy that would provide solutions to all rural problems. Unfortunately, at present we do not know what the strategy should contain, and the only message we get when we ask for the strategy or want to help with good ideas for the strategy is that it is delayed. Now the question is how long before Swedish rural areas get the conditions in place to develop and produce in a way that we know it can. It is almost two years of this term of office, and it is no longer possible to blame previous alliance governments or that they were not prepared for the elections. The government must start making proposals to Parliament on which we can take a position in this House. Mr President, I would like to For the sake of rural areas, it is not good enough to remove a functioning project such as Matlandet and replace it with illusions and air castles. Now we stand here, and the Moderates and the Alliance have a series of good proposals that could fill the void created by the government. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for our proposals, but the Social Democrats and the Green Party choose to refer to ongoing investigations and air castles that are delayed. In the report we can read that there is a food strategy, that there is a new law on animal welfare and that there are proposals from the Rural Committee. But nowhere does it say what these proposals will contain or when they come to the House. Until then, Sweden's countryside is stammering impatiently, dairy farmers are closing down and exports of Swedish food are falling. Mr President, I would like to Regional growth is important for a rural area in which it is possible to live, operate and operate in different ways. Sweden does not look the same, and needs and conditions are different. We believe that the green industries can contribute as a growth engine to this and that it would be within the framework of the rural development programme. The whole of Sweden will live, and the whole of Sweden will have the opportunity to stand on its own feet. But then people must be given the opportunity to stand on their own feet. A year ago, K came up with the proposals of the competition investigation. It contained a series of concrete proposals for decisions, but the government has chosen to put the proposals in mothbags pending the forthcoming food strategy and animal welfare bill. That is a pity, because there are many good proposals to make concrete legislative proposals from now on. But even them, the majority say 'no' while waiting for something that might come. The proposals of the Competitiveness Investigation could be based on Matlandet and provide better conditions for soil and horticulture to produce and compete in a global market. We have unique conditions with our climate, which contributes to unique products. We have among the world's most environmentally friendly agriculture, but we need to have a fair competitive environment in order to enter the global market. Running companies in Sweden is complicated as it is now, with many rules and laws to keep looking at as an entrepreneur. It is therefore extremely important not to impose an increased regulatory burden and taxes on an already vulnerable sector, as the government is actually doing today. The regulatory simplification work started by the Alliance needs to continue, and the tax incentives we made benefited both animals and rural areas and entrepreneurs. We have chosen to raise the issue of small-scale slaughterhouses as a way of making food production more local and reducing animal transport. We propose that better conditions be created for grazing animals in order to keep the grassland open and increase biodiversity. Without grazing animals, the countryside grows again. Unfortunately, however, the majority say no to this on the grounds that there will be a bill sometime in the future.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1176	Mr President, I would like to Today is March 2nd, and the first cranes have arrived in Lake Hornborga. It's a true spring sign. We who live our daily lives in the reality that we are debating today – rural areas and rural policy – can see how it gets brighter day by day, how the snow slowly disappears, how the hare play in the fields and it slowly starts to become ours. Nature is glorious, and being able to live and work in this reality as a man and a farmer is actually a favor. I think many share that feeling, and I actually believe that we are all farmers in our hearts. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 5, on the competitiveness of agriculture, and reservation No 12 on the environmental impact of agriculture, but we naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats. Mr President, I would like to Living and making a living in rural areas has become increasingly difficult. Many young people feel compelled to go away even though they want nothing more than to stay in their homeland. The policy pursued by the other parties seems to have the greatest aim of taxing rural residents extra hard, while shifting government jobs to big cities and gradually eroding the presence of public society in rural areas. Sweden may have the world's most animal- and environmentally friendly agriculture, a tradition that we in the Swedish Democrats want to preserve in principle. The current trend, however, leads to a continuous decline in Swedish agricultural production, which automatically means increased imports of food from countries with significantly lower ambitions in the field of environment and agriculture. It can't be good for either animals or nature. Mr President, I would like to Many Swedes take the open and varied cultural landscape for granted, simply because you don't realize that if nobody uses the land it will grow again. Anyone who understands, however, the connection between the old, open landscape and a viable farm will probably want agriculture to remain. We Swedish democrats do not always want to see that sharp line that sometimes seems to exist between man and nature. Human presence in nature is a prerequisite for it to be experienced and thus perceived. Mr President, I would like to In ten years, almost a fifth of Sweden's pastures and pastures have disappeared. Ever since the mid-1900s, meadows and natural pastures have continuously decreased in the Swedish agricultural landscape. From a biological point of view, these pastures and pastures are some of the most valuable and interesting habitats we have in terms of species richness. It is very much about preserving a beautiful open landscape with good conditions for food, employment, living environments, tourism, recreation and species wealth. It is of the utmost importance to reverse the developments that have taken place so far. We believe that the Swedish Board of Agriculture, together with other authorities, should work more to preserve and develop pastures and pastures. Mr President, I would like to Despite relatively good geographical conditions for both environmentally friendly and highly productive agriculture in Sweden, the so-called self-sufficiency rate has fallen steadily. Today it is below 50%. This means that in Sweden we produce less than half of the food we consume. We see this in the Swedish Democrats as the result of a policy that has been going on for decades, in which agriculture and farmers' conditions have been ignored. The dramatic decline in production volumes is not a normal development, and it is not a force that cannot be taken into account. Agriculture in Sweden, as we see it, has suffered from bureaucracy and a wide range of rules and regulations. We believe that clear efforts should be made and that targets should be set for Sweden's agricultural production and self-sufficiency. Mr President, I would like to Tax on fuel is an important source of income for the state, but through so-called re-taxation of carbon dioxide, we have, net, a lower tax on agriculture and forestry. The problem today is that agricultural and forestry companies still pay more tax on fuel than in our neighbouring countries. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that we must achieve a more equal relationship. We therefore want to reduce the tax on diesel for agriculture and forestry to the level that prevails in Denmark, i.e. 60 øre per litre. In the past, other lots have discussed taxes on chemical fertilisers or road wear. That is something that we in our party oppose. In addition, we believe that, in the current situation, the Swedish Board of Agriculture should work towards early and faster payments of direct payments and environmental payments to farmers. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats welcome the government's initiative to develop a Swedish food strategy. It has great potential, and the green industries employ perhaps 400 000 people in Sweden. The Swedish food industry has an export value equivalent to SEK 70 billion. That is why a Swedish food strategy is positive and that competitiveness is being boosted. The stakes are high. Continued crayfish production for Swedish agriculture is a risk of a further 20 000 jobs being lost that are directly linked to the industry and perhaps 20 000 – 25 000 jobs lost in industries affected by the green industries. We also believe that the government should continue to support investment in innovation and development in the food sector. In order to promote the export of Swedish food, priority should be given to work on country and plant approvals. Small and medium-sized food businesses may need support with skills development. They also need access to venture capital, and there is a need to facilitate generation shifts and entry for new businesses. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats want to classify agriculture as an environmentally friendly activity instead of, as now, putting it on an equal footing with mining and other industries. This would simplify the handling of environmental permits and the notification of livestock production. Farming must be made easier without abandoning the high ambitions of the environment. It is about looking at the system from a holistic perspective. Many farmers feel that they are subject to a purely draconian bureaucracy and, moreover, feel that they are constantly at a disadvantage to authorities whose officials have the power to obstruct or even close their activities. Unfortunately, environmental control activities are sometimes permeated by a large routine with low knowledge of the actual activities to be controlled. This means that some farmers, when they are visited, have to explain basic biological connections and set aside time and resources to correct outright errors. It is important that those involved in animal and environmental inspections have a relevant competence for the purpose. That is precisely why we believe, for example, that when working with animal welfare supervision in livestock production, as far as possible, you should have your own professional experience in animal husbandry. Mr President, I would like to Cross compliance rules mean that farmers must meet a number of operational requirements in, for example, the area of cross-compliance in the field of animal welfare in order to obtain full support. Infringements are penalised with percentage reductions. If you make more mistakes, the deductions are much bigger. Unfortunately, many of the cross compliance obligations have been systematically applied incorrectly in Sweden. The Swedish Board of Agriculture itself has admitted that its deduction system has been wrong. As a result, thousands of farmers have been deducted for errors that they have not committed. Nevertheless, it is not intended to regulate it economically. That is not good enough, as we see it, in a democratic rule of law. If you've done wrong, you've got to fix it. Mr President, I would like to We in the Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden is a whole, and we believe that what is good for the countryside is good for the whole country. The city and the countryside need each other. We also believe that viable agriculture is a prerequisite for living rural areas, but it is not possible to legislate around open and living landscapes. This exists only if it is profitable to farm and keep animals. Rural conditions and green industries are at the heart of our pro-Sweden policy.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1197	Mr President, I would like to I shall be brief for time-winning and make some reflections on reservations Nos 6 and 13, to which I, by the way, request approval. I wonder, Mr President, whether the current government really is serious about investing in development throughout Sweden. I do so because the last remnants of Matlandet Sweden were abolished in an amending budget established by the government shortly before Christmas last year without being replaced by anything else. Well, by the way, it was replaced by preparations, investigations and proposals for strategies. However, Mr President, this does not lead to new jobs or new activities in the Swedish countryside. Thus, an initiative was removed that gave new real jobs and new real businesses in different parts of our country. For example, it gave us a large number of new small-scale slaughterhouses, which, in addition to providing jobs, also provided better animal welfare. The initiative gave us many experience activities, which in turn has resulted in us having a number of new businesses that have even received a star in Guide Michelin. The initiative gave us a really big increase in exports of Swedish food products. So this bet, which gave so much, was removed without being replaced by anything else. I wonder, Mr President, whether it is not a touch of fraud to remove something that has given such an exchange without replacing it with something else that is at least capable of providing an exchange of activities and jobs, so that the whole country can continue to develop. That is another matter, Mr President, on which I was going to say a few words. The government goes to Paris and signs a global agreement that we will improve when it comes to our fairly large impact on our climate. At the same time, they discourage movements that are about providing the conditions for changing Swedish agriculture to become fossil-free. I do not understand the logic, Mr President, of rejecting the motions which propose to implement what I actually thought we agreed on in this House. With this, Mr President, I would once again like to support the two reservations I have mentioned in my speech.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1203	Mr President, I would like to The EU's common agricultural policy is a centralist subsidy policy that favours large companies and leads to large emissions. This policy consumes almost half of the EU's total budget. I wish that we, in a club team, could abolish it and make sure that we were able to decide for ourselves about that money and politics. Unfortunately, however, it is not quite that simple. The rural development programme is part of the EU's common agricultural policy. A little simplistic can be said that the rural development programme is the less bad one, or perhaps sometimes even the positive side of the EU's common agricultural policy. In the rural development programme there are projects against eutrophication and projects to keep meadows and pastures open. The rural development programme includes the so-called Leader programmes, which involve thousands of people in environmental issues across the country. The rural development programme also provides support for broadband roll-out in rural areas. All this is good business. But I question why the rural programme is so bureaucratic. The current period runs until 2020. Just such a thing, that you have a programme that is planned for six years and which is very difficult to change during that time, you can really question. I am also thinking of the work on the current rural programme which was being carried out by both the former bourgeois government and the current S-MP government. I know that when a concrete proposal was submitted to Brussels a year ago, 333 objections were raised by the European Commission. There were 333 objections to the proposal for a rural programme from Sweden. Everyone must be answered, and that must be justified. There were objections from Brussels to climate projects in Sweden to reduce emissions and to support various forms of animal welfare programmes and to the cultivation of beans on Öland. There were a lot of detailed comments on this in Brussels. It won't hold. We can't do this. A very large part of our energy cannot just be spent on correspondence with bureaucrats down in Brussels. Here the government must push to make the rural programme and the whole agricultural policy less bureaucratic and less money-consuming. It is about us getting more of a national self-determination. In the long term, I hope that we can renationalise agricultural policy so that we can decide on this policy at home without bureaucrats down in Brussels. You can look at the content of the current rural programmes. I find it unfortunate that there are now no concrete targets for increasing organic production in Sweden. It has been inscribed in previous rural programmes, but it was abolished in 2010, I believe, by the then bourgeois government. A rural programme is, of course, a good tool for promoting organic production, because we and, in particular, the European Union are going in with money. Then you can also make demands on what the money should contribute. What could be more justified if our common resources were to go beyond increased production of organic food? Here we in the Left Party have concrete proposals on the scope – how much organic production we hope could be achieved in Sweden. We believe that about one third of Swedish agricultural land should be managed organically. This objective should be achieved by 2020. It should also be possible to set targets for how much organic food one could have in the public sector. I know that it is a bit difficult to come up with these proposals now because the rural development programme is made up, but it is possible to revise it. I think that such proposals should also be highlighted within the framework of the food strategy, which I hope will soon become a reality. I would like to agree with some of the previous speakers when it comes to the fact that the whole procedure with Swedish food policy leaves some other things to be desired. Now we really hope that we can achieve much of what we want in the food strategy. There must not be another paper tiger. Mr President, I would like to I should like to mention one more thing. I started by talking about the EU's agricultural policy and subsidies as a whole. I think there is a picture out there that things are still moving in the right direction: overall EU agricultural subsidies are decreasing, and they are probably not quite as bad as before. I do not know whether it is entirely in line with the truth, Mr President. A while ago, the EU set up a so-called crisis reserve – a multi-billion-dollar subsidy project where subsidies will continue to go out to inefficient and environmentally-burdening companies that think they need subsidies from Brussels. I question the establishment of such a crisis reserve. I also look with great concern at the sharp increases in the so-called promotion measures that exist in the EU's agricultural policy. These subsidies will be more than tripled by 2020. It is therefore a question of pure advertising money for agricultural products which have a somewhat weak position on the market. A concrete example: If the Swedish people eat less beef, you can get money from Brussels for so-called promotions for advertising campaigns to make people eat more meat. I really do not understand the logic of this. Of course, if consumers vote with their feet or wallet and say that they want to eat less of this, Brussels should not go in and correct it. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 13, which relates to the conversion to fossil-free agriculture. I think there is quite a lot more to do to reduce emissions from agricultural and forestry machinery. Here we call for more concrete proposals from the government.
i-KkLQba42L4rKvMAb12kR1G	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's position in the report, apart from paragraph 1, the rural programme, and paragraph 10, the conversion to fossil-free agriculture. In paragraph 10, the Liberals have a reservation, along with the other alliance parties and the Left Party, to which I also call for approval. To be clear, we are talking about reservation 13, the same as Jens Holm has just asked for. When we discuss rural policy, we can see that it is really very multifaceted. It will be easy for us to get into discussing agriculture. Agriculture and the agricultural industries have a huge significance in rural areas, but there are also other parts to discuss. It is important to see the whole – how city and country depend on each other. Liberals' starting point in this context is a general policy that benefits everyone in both town and country and wherever you live in the country. You should see the big picture. This is, for example, a policy in which high taxation on labour and companies do not discourage the development of businesses and the creation of jobs. It hits the countryside hard, not least. For us liberals, it is important that people have power, and may have power, over their situation and opportunities to shape their future wherever they live. I think it feels like important starting points in this context. When discussing rural policy, issues of service, entrepreneurship, education and infrastructure must also be highlighted. Not least the last is an important issue. The questions are discussed in different places in the Riksdag on different occasions. We can also see that the differences are large across the country. It simply looks different, and the conditions are different. That is why solutions must also differ. A key ingredient of the policy being pursued, not least for rural areas, is the creation of confidence in the future. Even if people choose to live in rural areas, they should be able to create a good future for themselves and their own. Mr President, I would like to This brings me to what has been discussed here about the rural programme. I can agree straight up with Jens Holm: this is the positive part of the EU's agricultural policy. But here too, of course, we would like to see that it was a little less bureaucratic. I have looked at maps and so on how it is done when you are looking for environmental compensation. We ordinary mortals, who have not been involved in this, see that it is an extreme level of detail. One might wonder how it can be required of people to do this in order to get their allowances. It is important that the rural development programme is designed in such a way that it provides regional growth based on the whole country's living. It is, of course, a question of strengthening the competitiveness of the agricultural industries. Much has been said about that today. But it is also about efforts to develop the tourism industry in rural areas, which is of great importance to many parts of the country. What Eskil Erlandsson mentioned about Matlandet Sweden can bear to be mentioned. It has to do with food production and food production, but it also has to do with the tourism industry in many respects. They have unique Swedish food in different regions of Sweden. The statistics for 2014 show that according to the Swedish Growth Agency, the tourism industry in Sweden had sales of SEK 268.5 billion and contributed to 160 000 jobs. Many of these jobs are found in large cities, but many are also found in rural areas. The tourism industry is a widespread and growing industry in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight the opportunity offered by the rural development programme for various environmental benefits. Environmental measures can create the conditions for sustainable food production while promoting open landscapes, which are important for biodiversity and which reinforce natural and cultural values. You can get compensation. You get compensation for pastures, mowing meadows, forest pastures, mosaics, grass-poor land and so on. You hear yourselves! When applying for compensation, you should classify your land almost on the square metre when in these categories. It is a delicate task, and one can discuss whether it really needs to be at that level. We must work and strive for this towards Europe so that it does not have to be so. These are relatively small costs and investments for society, but for the people who work in rural and rural areas with these issues it is compensation that is crucial for the operation. It is often diversified operations, where a number of ten thousand crowns are very crucial for whether it should go together or not. In some interpellation debates, we have discussed delays in payments of, among other things, these environmental compensations. It does not help to see that most of the compensation has been paid. It does not help these very people, who are so heavily dependent on environmental compensation. Basically, it is totally unacceptable that we have ended up in a situation where the authority's well-being and woe have gone ahead of the individual's rights to get their money out. I say well and woefully, but there are explanations that we do not have functioning IT systems and so on. But, like I said, it doesn't help anyone who doesn't get their money. We can talk about open landscapes when it comes to biodiversity. But it has also been shown that an open landscape is a growth factor in itself. It is in these areas that people really want to live. In such areas people can settle and start other activities just because they think it's so beautiful there. As I said, open landscapes are something that we really need to promote, both in terms of biodiversity and in terms of other things. Mr President, I would like to I'll say something about the food strategy. There is great hope for it. There are also clear links with rural areas. It concerns both primary production and secondary food production. Unfortunately, the government seems to have got bogged down on this issue. I can see that not much is happening at the moment. A bill was announced in March this year, but now it has been postponed to June. One must only hope that the government has the strength to pursue that plan. Then we'll see what's coming. For us Liberals, it is important that the main focus is on measures that strengthen competitiveness and that the consumer perspective and what role the consumer can play in this. Mr President, I would like to I note that we divide the discussions here in Parliament in such a way that we traditionally do not discuss other agricultural industries when we discuss rural policy. We are not discussing the importance of fishing, despite the fact that fishing is very important in certain areas along our coasts and also around our inland lakes. However, this particular issue gives us the opportunity to come back to when we are discussing fisheries policy. But I can only say that this is connected and that rural areas are very much concerned.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1234	Mr President, I would like to It would be interesting to know what the Liberals think about the threefold increase in funding for so-called promotions, that is, pure advertising money for various agricultural products and, not least, animal species – different meats – which the EU is now introducing. These grants amount to approximately EUR 200 million, i.e. approximately SEK 2 billion, annually. I also wonder whether the Liberals have a position on the crisis reserve that is a multi-billion-dollar subsidy fund that will go directly as a contribution to various companies across Europe. Lars Tysklind mentioned the tourism industry. It's an incredibly important business. I think that many of the tourists who come to Sweden come here because we have a beautiful nature. It is sometimes said that it is a little bit of the last European wilderness. Then the tourists may not be so very impressed and alert to return if they are surrounded by the green hut the next time they go up to the forest that they have the habit of visiting. I wonder briefly if the Liberals think it would be a good idea to promote more of so-called clean forestry, i.e. not to cut down all the trees so that it becomes a bare house. If the Liberals think so, should we not give a mission to state-owned Sveaskog so that they can promote decent forestry? This is perhaps a little side by side with this debate, but it was still Lars Tysklind who brought up the tourism industry and the forest.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1237	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the measures raised by Jens Holm – EU sales promotions, crisis reserves and so on – I can say that this is not something that the Liberals think is a good idea. Basically, we believe that the EU's agricultural policy should be phased out. What we have said that we think is good is clearly what we agree on, namely that the rural development programme can, after all, have its points. Then you might think that this is very bureaucratized. Those who will apply within the rural programme are surprised that such requirements can be made at all and that it should be so detailed. There's a lot to do there. Promotional measures to maintain a certain production, be it animals or something else, are something that we definitely do not think is good. When it comes to the tourism industry, I agree that people come to Sweden to experience our nature. It's one of the big things. They also come here to experience our beautiful coasts and even our cities. The question of the corral is huge. The starting point, however, is that we now have a system in which we have a balance between the production target and the environmental objective. I did not mention the production target, because I thought I had spoken for so long. That's why I skipped it. Nevertheless, the importance of forests must be highlighted from the rural perspective, and not least from the climate point of view, but also from the point of view of Jens Holm, that the forest has its own value.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1242	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Lars Tysklind for the answer to my questions related to EU subsidies. I believe that the Liberals and the Left are doing the same analysis in this regard. There we should be able to work together to simply get rid of these crazy elements of the EU's agricultural policy. As far as the tourism industry and clean forestry are concerned, I am concrete here and narrow the question: Should we not give a mission to Sveaskog so that they promote decent forestry? That was really my only question. Do the Liberals think it's a good idea?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1244	Mr President, I would like to From the liberal side, we find it very interesting to develop different ways of working the forest. It is perfectly permissible to do so too, and many do. If it is then Sveaskog or anyone else who should have this specific mission, I do not know. We had a seminar on this just a week or so ago. It turned out that there are many who work with other methods. But against this is the need to look at both production objectives and environmental objectives and also the achievement of the production target. I believe that the future will show that it will have both in one way or another. Then there are areas that may be much more suitable for this, but that there are other forestry methods than the bare-cut. There, the tourism industry and cultural and natural values can play a major role. But if it is specifically Sveaskog that should take this on board, I do not really have any idea today.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1248	Mr President, I would like to I support the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats and the Alliance in this report. Before the parliamentary elections it is a mantra that is repeated all the time, namely: All of Sweden should live. But what do we mean when we say it? For us Christian Democrats, this means that there must be conditions for people to live and work in cities as well as in rural areas. People and businesses all over the country should have the opportunity to grow and develop. In most discussions on rural challenges, it is the material and economic values that are debated most frequently. But there are other values that are at least as important. We Christian Democrats believe that we have a deep moral responsibility for the earth we inherited. It is a responsibility that we have inherited from previous generations and that we will pass on to our children and grandchildren. Invaluable cultural environments and unique resources in nature must not be lost. At the same time, the countryside cannot be regarded as a museum from a bygone era. It is possible and necessary to combine conservation and protection with modernity and development. No one can tell us what the future looks like or what needs will be central to the people here in a hundred years' time, but certain needs are always valid. Man needs food, and man needs nature for his well - being. We have a moral responsibility to manage this. The country's agricultural entrepreneurs contribute concretely to the long-term stewardship, which is a central part of the Christian Democrats' ideology. Agriculture is not just any industry, but its mission goes far beyond food production. It provides added value to the whole of our country in the form of active conservation of the environment and culture. A living countryside requires that there are people and businesses there. Then there must also be working telephony and broadband. Rural residents also have the right to live in 2016, but in many parts of Sweden that is unfortunately not the case today. I will tell you about an example from Kalvefall in Ydre, which is located in Östergötland. People live there, and there are good entrepreneurs. I was there talking to a guy named Olle, and he said this: When Telia cut off the copper wire and replaced it with fixed mobile phone, it was completely fucked – it no longer works. When they're going to order things, they're going to the main town. Olle said: How are we going to run a business when it's this hard? It is not a hundred years since we are talking about; it is now, 2016. Mr President, I would like to The major concerns our dairy farmers now have are very bad for our country, and I do not think we have really understood the consequences. The fact that five dairy farmers stop every week will not only make it difficult for us to keep Sweden's people with milk products, but also for thousands of jobs to be lost. We also know that beautiful meadows and pastures are growing again at a furious pace. I was accompanied by the county administrative boards in both Jönköping and Östergötland on a bus trip to see pastures and meadows that were previously fantastic, with red-listed species, but were now overgrown with shrubs, sly and spruce forest. Twenty percent have disappeared in ten years. Mr President, I would like to The consequences will also be more urbanisation. Young people move to larger central cities and big cities. The older ones are still here. Service is deteriorating as the population base is shrinking and the number of working people is falling. Groups who previously went from school and study directly to a job in the family's farms, factory or mill are now out of work, and others are moving to larger cities. We politicians must create the conditions for people to want to live and work and for businesses to develop in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to The insecurity felt by many is one of the great threats to a living countryside. Many have long stopped expecting the police to arrive in time. We hear daily about theft of diesel tanks or burglaries in forest machinery and tractors, and tractors are even stolen. It can't go on like that. Crimes must also be investigated and cleared up in rural areas. Another source of concern is the application of the EU Water Directive. Thousands of hectares of arable land are at risk of being put under water at the expense of private landowners. At the same time, climate-neutral electricity generation risks being lost. Large cultural values are also threatened – several hundred years old dams will be demolished, with the consequence that, among other things, old utility environments will be lost. Individual dusters will have to invest millions of dollars to restore the original environment, resulting in extensive damage to the cultural environment, agriculture and third parties. Individuals will suffer financial consequences that are not proportionate to the importance of the measures. Mr President, I would like to We face a major global challenge when it comes to changing society in a greener and more sustainable direction. This includes switching energy supply from fossil dependency to renewables. The possibilities of stimulating the conversion of working machines, particularly in forestry and agriculture, need to be developed. For this to happen, targeted efforts are needed. At the same time, an agricultural sector that can be driven mainly by renewable domestic fuels reduces dependence on oil imports. This means a more robust preparedness in the event of a crisis in our country. At present, agriculture depends entirely on a constant influx of fossil oil to power the machinery and fossil gas for the production of fertilisers. This is not sustainable. Sweden needs a living countryside. Sweden needs farmers who produce food to maintain its security of supply.
i-S5o5rmoWyLdTeGfhiVbbEr	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on the Environment and Rural Development MJ U9 on rural policy, and I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. What is rural policy? Is there a specific policy for rural areas, and is there a need for a specific policy for rural areas? These are the issues that we are wrestling with in the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development. We will deliver a partial report on 31 March describing what it looks like today and what the impact of the policy has been. Then the real work of shaping the political proposals begins. A policy should be proposed that creates the conditions for growth, entrepreneurship, employment and housing in an attractive rural environment. The final report is due in January 2017. The report we are debating today is very much about green industries and their competitiveness, about regulatory simplification, supervision, control and the environmental impact of agriculture. All these issues are about rural development opportunities. We agree on that, but perhaps we do not fully agree on how. In the Government Declaration, the Government writes: a modern industrial policy creates jobs throughout the country. The forest – the green gold – will contribute to more jobs and be managed sustainably. – – – Sweden's potential as a tourist destination with a focus on nature and ecotourism is exploited. A food strategy is being developed to increase production throughout the food chain and meet the demand for organic food. ..................................................... We are serious about the whole of Sweden living. Then we must ensure that it is possible to live and work in rural areas. That is why we spend money on broadband expansion, infrastructure, basic commercial service, service points and methane gas reduction. But that's not enough-- there's more to it. There must be schools, health care, housing and jobs. These are investments that we are also making in our budget. It's connected. We need to protect the Swedish model. Mr President, I would like to We are facing major challenges but also great opportunities with a new industrial policy that drives new industrialisation even in smaller towns and gives companies the opportunity to export. The Minister for Rural Development was recently in China to ensure that Swedish food companies have increased access to their market. We have a policy of innovation for the green industries. The government will also present a research proposal, and the Prime Minister will also lead an Innovation Council. Sweden is doing well. Sweden's growth in 2015 was 4.1 per cent, and exports increased for the first time in 20 years. And unemployment is falling. The number of jobs increased by nearly 80 000 in 2015. And we need to stimulate jobs in the green industries, to keep the existing ones and to create new ones. The food strategy will be an important part of developing measures to stimulate Swedish food production and horticulture in terms of both primary production and further processing. There's a lot to do there. For example, the number of dairy farms is increasing. The milk crisis of recent years is something we have worked with a lot and is very serious. The number of dairy farmers is falling, and this threatens our production of both meat and milk, but also rural development as a whole. The government, together with the EU, has spent 150 million to strengthen dairy farmers in the acute crisis. But we are also compensating for the increase in diesel taxation in agriculture and forestry. In recent years, food imports and exports have increased. There's more to do. We are happy to buy Swedish, and the work that the industries do and have done with Swedish labelling is an important part for us as consumers to be able to buy Swedish in stores and easily make that choice. It will increase the competitiveness of Swedish food production and create jobs. The demand for organic production and food is also increasing strongly in Sweden. Demand is higher than supply. This is something that we must stimulate so that supply meets the demand that exists. Mr President, I would like to Consumers must be able to trust that food is safe and that labelling is correct. That is why we are now looking at the scale of penalties and the means of sanctioning fraud in the food sector. The government has also established a procurement authority that will facilitate the public sector to buy Swedish and put new rules in place to make it easier to procure Swedish food, for it has certainly been absurd that what is procured by the public sector would have been illegal to produce in Sweden. We can't have that. Sweden has a climate-smart soil bruk with high animal welfare in both organic and conventional agriculture, and that is something that we should guard against. The use of antibiotics is very low. Farmers know that the most profitable thing is that the animals are healthy, and they work a lot with preventive measures. The production of forest-based bioenergy and biogas from agriculture continues to develop positively. Continuous work is being done to reduce dependence on fossil energy in green industries. However, the Government believes that further efforts are needed to exploit the potential of green industries in climate action. Green industries have a key role to play. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want Sweden to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU 2020, and then rural areas are needed. We want to see a new industrialisation of Sweden and investments in roads, broadband and railways. We want to secure the supply of knowledge to rural businesses through more places in regional universities and universities and in upper secondary schools and polytechnics. We Social Democrats have a policy of making the whole country better to live in. Our focus is more on cooperation and investments for the future so that Swedish companies can grow and employ. With more jobs, we can also afford a welfare to be proud of.
i-M4rPUN83NYxuhJ2skDA3gd	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Monica Haider. In our agricultural movement, we mention a great deal about bureaucracy, and I did so in my speech here earlier. As noted, when applying for support, farmers can almost experience that they are going through some kind of draconian activity. For example, when applying for investment aid, you have to write the right wording in order to get the best amounts at all. It's part of it. But I have some thoughts about some of what we have put forward in our motion proposals, and that is about environmental inspections and animal inspections. How does Monica Haider view this with the competence requirement? What is a sensible requirement to make? I read the answers and mention that you have a number of programmes and that you look at them with confidence. But there is another part, and that is that as a farmer with animals, for example, you should know that whoever controls your animals actually has a competence and does not have a hidden agenda. It would be interesting if Monica Haider could develop a little more how she views those questions.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1282	Mr President, I would like to As far as bureaucracy is concerned, I think that we all in this House think that it is sometimes overpowering when it comes to EU applications and other things. It is difficult to apply for these subsidies. At the same time, we know that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is constantly trying to simplify and improve. After all, the simplification journey, which started last parliamentary term, has produced a great deal of concrete results. But we'll never get to stop doing that job. Then I think we will never get away from some bureaucracy in the European Union because there is a great deal of control of what we are going to do. As regards environmental inspections and competence requirements, there are competence requirements for animal welfare inspectors. In fact, I do not know exactly what education they have today. But to make demands, as you do in your exercise, that they should have professional knowledge before I think is very difficult. It takes, if I understand correctly, a college education to get these jobs. I think it's hard to say that they should have professional knowledge before. I don't really believe it. I think you can gain knowledge in a different way, too.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1286	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Monica Haider. Of course, it can be discussed what competence animal welfare inspectors need. But I think it's important that the signal sent out to someone to be hired as an animal welfare inspector is to possess basic knowledge. There are examples of farmers who get environmental visits where they can explain basic knowledge like how it works on a farm with vegetation and so on. I think this is something you can put much more pressure on. I have a different thought and perhaps a certain concern, and that is what will happen this autumn with animal welfare legislation and the proposals that are coming. How does Monica Haider view those questions? Is it the ambition to have tougher rules, or is it to try to get rules that are adapted to the conditions of the animals, the conditions for agriculture or for a competitive Swedish agriculture? That would be interesting to hear.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1289	Mr President, I would like to As far as the competence of animal welfare inspectors is concerned, I know that there have been quite a lot of training on the county boards of inspectors, including in response, competence-enhancing measures and so on. But I cannot stand here and say exactly what competence is to apply to an animal welfare inspector, because I do not know.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you all for staying here this late evening and for debating rural policy! This is a very dear subject for me. I am not sure, however, that I like the word rural policy. Like Monica Haider, Lars Tysklind and Jens Holm, one might wonder if there really is something called rural politics. The report should perhaps be called the EU's common agricultural policy and all its consequences or something like that. Sweden is a large country. We have 290 municipalities. 33 of them are classed as rural municipalities, according to the Swedish Board of Agriculture's definition, and 164 as rural municipalities. This means that two thirds of Sweden's municipalities are sparsely populated or rural. I do not think there can be a policy for all of them. We are a teeming diversity country from Skåne in the south to Norrbotten in the north. There is not a policy area that can cover all of this, and it is no speciality just because people live further away from each other than they do in cities. Just like everywhere else, there are a lot of different people living in rural and sparsely populated areas. They are teachers, biologists, pensioners, farmers, beekeepers, newborns and new arrivals, and all with their dreams and needs and longings. Maybe a new parent wants to be close to the BVC. If you are older, it is perhaps closeness to care and medical care that is important. For a teenager, perhaps it is the communications home from the cinema at People's House that are important. For self-employed people and students, or just for modern TV viewing, broadband connectivity is necessary. I think we have the same needs but different conditions depending on whether we live in rural, rural or urban areas. For us politicians, it is about the will to overcome these differences. Here we sometimes have different views on how it should be done and different levels of how it should be. I would rather talk about rural-proof policies. Sure, it is semantics, but it is still important, because the reason we are here today is the EU's common agricultural policy and the funds allocated in what is called the rural programme. This 36.1 billion goes largely to agriculture and forestry, but also to various measures that make it easier to live in the country: climate action, broadband, basic services, food shops and entrepreneurship. It should not be called aid and compensation, but for investments, as it does in the urban environment. Return to the report. It is largely about entrepreneurship and the conditions for entrepreneurs in the green industries, at least if we look at what motions have been raised. Let us state that the green industries are an important interest in society. We are all dependent on the green industries. That is why we are not going to make this special. We shall ensure that we have a rural-proof enterprise policy, a rural-secured school policy and a rural-proof cultural policy – and because we have a feminist foreign policy, we shall also have a feminist rural policy. We see that many of the small contribution of the rural development programme can be very useful. Lars Tysklind spoke earlier about mosaic pastures. For individual owners and traders, a grant of between SEK 1 000 and SEK 10 000 can make a big difference. The way things are geared up is crucial for the local landscape, for tourism and for those who live there because it keeps the landscape open. We have talked a lot about the difficulties in food production. Sometimes it seems that interests stand against each other, that it is either one or the other that applies. Either we're for or against the environment. We need a living farm, and I know that the government is investing in it and working for it and increased food production in Sweden. A living farm provides good environmental services, open landscapes, live shipments and living villages. In today's climate, it is about taking responsibility in a national but above all international perspective. We are obliged to use the land we have and not to build up arable land and productive land. In the wake of the climate change we are seeing, agriculture will face great difficulties. We already see it in many places in the world. Just look at southern Europe! The Swedish soil will be needed even more in the future, and then we need clean water, chemical-free agriculture and a non-toxic environment. That is the success story in Swedish agriculture. Living agriculture and a strong food supply are based on making use of our resources. We should not paint the image of good water quality contrasting with good food production. Rather, it is the prerequisite for a good green nutrition. Others, too, are sometimes said to resist each other. There has been talk of competitiveness here. I believe that Swedish agriculture's greatest competitiveness is our added value with good animal welfare, low antibiotic use, clean water, low chemical use and good animal health. The regulatory framework for animal husbandry can be discussed. There are many complicated rules for other things than animal husbandry, such as plant nutrition. The regulatory framework must be effective and must be designed in such a way as to impose a small administrative burden on the entrepreneur. There are some things to do here, and I think we all agree on that. But it must not go beyond animal welfare and environmental considerations. Sometimes we talk about regulatory changes as a mantra, but there is often a reason why rules have come into being. Regulatory frameworks shall also be preventive. This applies, for example, to animal stalls, which were mentioned earlier. A trial gives the keeper an investment security so that he does not plow down millions on something that turns out not to work. When the rules are clarified, it must be done smartly and without compromising animal welfare, animal health or legal certainty. It must also be appropriate for the entrepreneur. If we are to have the Swedish added value left and if there is to be a reason to buy Swedish meat, Swedish eggs, Swedish milk and Swedish cereals, the only thing we can compete with in a global market is our high animal welfare, our high food safety, our high environmental performance and our low antibiotic use. It provides a competitive agriculture, and we must have instruments and rules to promote this. Through this we can meet consumers' increased demand for sustainable food, both within Sweden and in a global market.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1312	Mr President, I would like to Both the Left Party and the Green Party criticised the former bourgeois government when it removed targets for organic production, which existed in the previous rural programme. Now we have a new government in which the Social Democrats and the Green Party rule. It is you who owns the current rural programme, Emma Nohrén. I have not seen any objectives for organic production there, either in terms of the size of the agricultural area or the amount of organic food to be procured in the public sector. I would like to ask Emma Nohrén whether the Green Party does not think it would be a good idea if we had such eco-objectives in the rural programme. We know that changes can be made to the current rural programme. Is it something that the Green Party and the government are running?
i-6tAxjmW9Ja44UYAj6kxTUp	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! I think it is important that there are ecological objectives. That is what drives development. We can compare with when we started to have regulations for emissions from environmental cars. If you lay down on 120 grams of carbon dioxide that was where the cars came, but if you laid down on 109 the cars came there even though the industry said it was impossible. I think you have to have instruments, but it's a little complicated sometimes. Should it be in money and share of the cost, or should it be in kilos? It can sometimes be difficult to set goals there. But I think it's supposed to be, and I seem like it's coming in. However, I do not know whether it is possible to get it into the mid-term review, but we hope so.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1317	Mr President, I would like to I take it that it is the position of the Green Party that we should have eco-objectives in the rural programme. I think that's good. I hope that is also the attitude of the government, because we have not seen any of it yet. I am not at all an expert on rural programmes, but as I understand it, corrections can be made over time. You don't even have to wait till half-time. If Sweden wants to make a correction or supplement, it is unfortunately not quite so easy that you just pick up the phone and call down to Brussels and so it is done, but about that it should be. It is simply said that we want to do this addition, and that is how we will hopefully get it approved from Brussels. I hope the government runs it. How to measure echo should not be as complicated as Emma Nohrén says, because we had goals before. 20% of the total agricultural area should be organic, they said. Now we should turn that target up. There was also talk about the fact that public purchases should be so much organic food. We should be able to use about that target, but screw it up.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1320	Mr President, I would like to I can basically just agree. The milk crisis and so on have been at the forefront of the debate. We see that organic production has done best, especially because feed is usually grown on its own land. There is every reason to bring up the production of organically, also with regard to animal welfare, chemical use and everything. If we can get this into the rural programme in any way, I think that would be a good thing. I'll take those tips with me.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1322	Mr President, I would like to Emma Nohrén has made a very interesting speech. It was a speech that I think she could have made a few years ago, too, when she was in opposition. However, the difference is that she belongs to the majority right now. The Green Party painted many problem descriptions about what it's like in rural areas right now. Many of these descriptions I think many of us can agree with, but I would like to ask Emma Nohrén and the Green Party how the Green Party views solutions and measures in its government position. At the moment, we feel that little is happening on the part of the government in rural development. How would Emma Nohrén and the Swedish Green Party want to increase Swedish production? When is the food strategy coming? When is the animal welfare bill coming?
i-D7VMH7wVG2aw9PMcTZ4c8i	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Åsa Coenraads! I think the government has put rural work on hold. Then there is still more to be done. We have developed a maritime strategy that deals with a large part of our coast and how to use it. Maritime planning and its use are intensively being worked on, which is important for small-scale fishing and tourism as well as for the future business community. We have a major focus on tourism and tourism exports, where ecotourism is also included as a flagship in Swedish sales abroad. We have almost doubled support for outdoor organisations as a way of getting people into the forest and land and increasing interest in rural areas. We have an investigation into the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, which is to develop a rural policy that looks right up to 2050. We have also helped during the milk crisis. The closure of several dairy farms a week was not something that happened when we took over power, but it happened already when you were in power, Åsa Coenraads. There has been a trend since far back, but what did you do about it? We have added several different things to make it better. Let's go for echoes. As far as I can see, the government is doing very much. We also have an investigation in progress to see how government jobs can get out in the country rather than concentrate around Stockholm, as they have done during your time.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1328	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an answer that did not contain a single answer to the questions I asked! We've had two years of rural vacuum from the government. We do not know when the food strategy will come, and we do not know when the animal welfare bill will come. But it is to these two that the Social Democrats and the Green Party refer – at some point in the future. Government policy is an air castle. What the government has produced so far is industry programmes. These have been developed by the industry itself, so one cannot say that they are government policy. Here today we have put forward proposals for increased competitiveness, simpler rules for rural areas and less detailed management. All this you say no to, Emma Nohrén. I therefore wonder: how does the Green Party in the government intend to increase Swedish production?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1331	Mr President, I would like to Again: Thank you for the questions! The fact that we have a rural vacuum depends very much on who sat and ruled eight years earlier and who negotiated today's rural programmes, with which we are stuck. It was the Alliance Government that conducted the negotiations in Brussels. That's where we're a little stuck. But we have to fix the situation, and that's where I think we've done a lot. We have a food strategy in progress. In terms of time, I cannot say when it comes, but I think you yourself have been involved in the work, Åsa Coenraads, from the Alliance's side. At least some of your representatives have been. As far as I know, the animal welfare bill will come in the fall. It's working on. In the meantime, all the other things I mentioned before have also happened. I do not think that it would be a fair assessment.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1335	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Emma. I think it was an interesting suggestion you mentioned, that we need to talk a lot more rural policy, as we call this bloc. Actually, it is the agricultural policy we are discussing. It's important that we talk about it. Then I may be right, to some extent, because I myself am a member of the Rural Committee. As things stand at present, I do not really think that the Committee will deal with food policy issues so much, but above all the food strategy. It is quite clear here that many parties do not feel that they are directly involved in the dialogue at all and therefore wonder where it will end up, including with regard to animal welfare legislation. I've got a little idea. Emma Nohrén mentioned added value and high costs, that it should be added value. I'm having trouble seeing that connection. Value added is something you get paid for. Otherwise, there is no added value without an additional cost. Added value can be that it is organic, that it is certified, that you have old country varieties, that you have very good taste or crafty cooking of food or something else. But added value is still not an additional cost. Our role as a politician is to compensate for the additional costs that Swedish agriculture, for example, has to some extent. Alternatively, the industry must try to get paid differently. My reasoning, Emma Nohrén, is: Am I right in my analysis? Is added value an additional cost?
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1341	Mr President, I would like to I don't see it that way. If there is no difference between the Swedish meat and other meat, it would be pointless to stamp it and signal that it is Swedish meat. The same applies to Swedish chicken. We can solve these problems by having worse animal welfare and chlordop the chickens instead, as is done in other countries, because then salmonella will be removed. But I don't think anyone wants to go. I see this as a first step towards ensuring that all EU countries comply with EU law, which unfortunately does not happen. We then want to bring the EU to the Swedish standard instead of lowering it to the European standard. In that case, there is no reason to buy Swedish, if there is no added value in that we have Swedish animal welfare, the Swedish chemicals legislation and so on.
i-QEYDrMkDStBkXrSpuY6XAB	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Emma Nohrén! The fact that there is an extra price in stores on Swedish meat is hardly about that it is more expensive to produce. That's not how farmers get paid when they sell their goods: Check this out, it costs 100 SEK more to produce, so we get that money. It is more about selling on other added value, for example that it is Swedish, that we have good animal welfare control or that we in Sweden have farmers who are incredibly skilled at producing good quality food. The development of Swedish-produced food can be seen. From 2005 there has been a dramatic decline that has continued all the time. That is not something I blame this government for, but it is a little bit the issue that we need to discuss. We must reverse production and turn it together. It is really a call to the Green Party, as part of the government, to try to broaden the food strategy and really bring all parties together, so that we get concrete solutions where we can get results for Swedish agriculture and for Swedish rural areas.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1346	Mr President, I would like to I think that we broadly agree that we want good and good production in Sweden and that it should be profitable for Swedish farmers to have the standard that they have today and that it should also increase. It is appalling that one of the best animal keepers in the world has reduced production. It should rather be us who are being rewarded. As far as the food strategy is concerned, all parties are supposed to be involved in the future. The strategy is under way, and I hope that it may not solve everything but that we get a strategy to move forward in terms of getting better and increased food production in Sweden.
i-6cd0216fb6947973-1348	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd finish the night by talking a little bit about mini-pigs. As you have longed for it! Mini-pigs have been in Sweden as pets since the 1980s. How many people are in Sweden right now is a bit difficult to estimate, as there is no separate register for mini-pigs. A thousand is a reasonable guess, I guess. The mini pig is not a breed of its own – there is no breed standard – but all pigs weighing less than 80 kg when they are adults, which they are at about five years of age, count as mini-pigs. Of course, 80 kilos does not sound very small. But when compared to a slaughter pig of about 300 kilos, it is definitely They should, moreover, be called kelgrisar. Teacup and micropigs, as you've probably seen in pictures at some point and people carry around, they don't exist. They never existed either. They're little tiny little pigs who should be with their mother instead. Forget that you can have a pig in a teacup or in a bag for that matter! It might be a bag on wheels, for a little while, until the pig has eaten the bag. Most mini-pigs usually land at 35 - 40 kg when counted as mini-pigs. Imagine a pit bull! When you have a mini-pig, you face a couple of problems, except those that the pig himself causes. Although many of the pigs live indoors with the more human part of the family and never ever meet other pigs, mini-pigs are not counted as pets but as pigs, that is, cloven-hoofed cattle, and they are not separated from the farmed animals in the legislation. A mini-pig owner must have an SE number from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. That in itself is not a big problem, because it is good to keep an eye on the pigs. But the problem is that the legislation has not made a distinction between a single pig or 500 pigs. I can promise that the neighbors, if nothing else, wonder a little bit how many people are supposed to have. In addition, the pigs should be marked either with a tray in the ear or with a tattoo. But it's not very cozy to have someone on the couch who has a large plastic tray or metal piece in the ear, and besides, the ears are too small, so they don't fit. The response to the motion refers to a 2008 directive. If it is an EU directive, the same should reasonably apply throughout the EU. But in Finland chipping the pigs works just fine. In other words, it should work perfectly well here too. And if it is not an EU directive, it could change the legislation, which was the point of the exercise. Then there is the vaccination. It needs all animals including mini-pigs. The problem is that pig vaccines come in very large doses, because it is intended for farmed animals. This means that we have to throw away huge amounts of vaccines, and that's pretty stupid. Since the mini-pig is counted as a productive animal, the same rules do not apply in case of disease or if any animal should die, which they all do sooner or later. Nor is it possible to insure them in the same way, at least against something that the pig may actually suffer. The answer to the motion states that there is no work going on to equate mini-pigs with pets and that it is not possible to do so under current legislation. Again: That was a little bit the point of the exercise, because clearer recommendations and regulations are needed and a comprehensive set of rules on what a mini-pig owner should think about, comply with and comply with. It's gotten better, but it can get much better than that. More needs to be done, if only for animal welfare, which has been up here before. It's perfectly okay to have bird spiders and scorpions as pets without permission, but not mini-pigs. To be able to track the pigs in case of outbreaks of disease, yes, but then there are a lot of legal texts that are just complicated! For rabbits, the legal text distinguishes between farmed animals and the cute ones we have in cages at home. We should be able to do the same with the pig. It's time to separate the pigs from the pigs! Get rid of angry nassers and advance for more happy pigs!
