i-6289d10808f5b54d-12	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has asked me what calculations have been made at the Ministry of Finance about how the changed ROT deduction affects the amount of undeclared work in the construction industry. She has also asked me whether I believe that the Swedish people's confidence in the legitimacy of the tax system is affected by the reduced ROT deduction. After the previous government's terms of office, we saw a situation of large government deficits, along with unemployment that has been sustained at a high level. The costs of the ROT deduction have increased significantly since the tax reduction was introduced. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's data, the payments of the ROT deduction increased by SEK 3 billion only between 2014 and 2015, and for 2015, payments are estimated to amount to almost SEK 20 billion. The government has limited the ROT deduction in order to finance more urgent investments for jobs and more housing, which together are estimated to contribute to a lasting reduction in unemployment. Combating tax evasion by removing taxes is expensive. The government prioritises ways of combating undeclared work and contributing to greater legitimacy in the tax system than through subsidies. For example, staffing requirements have been introduced in the construction industry at the turn of the year, which makes it difficult for undeclared work in the construction industry as a whole. In addition, on 7 April the Government commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to make proposals on how to extend the system of human resources to car repair shops, wholesale food and body and beauty care, in order to combat undeclared work and social dumping. In addition to this, the proposal for monthly reporting of tax deductions and employers' contributions, which is now in the process of being consulted, can improve the efficiency of the Swedish Tax Agency's work.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-15	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, although it is not clear which questions are being answered. The questions in the interpellation, about what calculations the Ministry of Finance has made to assess how the amount of undeclared work in the construction industry is affected by the ROT deterioration and how the legitimacy of the tax system is affected, are not answered in any case. Magdalena Andersson describes the purpose of the deterioration and other ways of combating tax evasion, but that is not what I want to be highlighted. Either calculations have been made of the amount of undeclared work that is not reported, or calculations have not been made. I don't know which is worse. When you meet construction companies, you hear how they are increasingly being asked to take black jobs. The data provided by entrepreneurs in March show not only that the number of companies performing ROT services decreased dramatically compared to the same month last year, but also that the number of customers decreased significantly. About a quarter of all buyers have stopped buying ROT services between February and March. Whether they have stopped buying these services or if they have started buying black, it means a negative impact on the white jobs. It is worrying that the Minister for Finance does not seem to care about it. Fewer white jobs hit the workers. It is also hitting all of us with reduced tax revenue. The fact that there would be less construction in the country is refuted by today's data from the Construction Materials Traders, which shows that their sales are increasing. With regard to the staff and the proposal on monthly data, we are in agreement politically. For example, the Alliance exercised if it later last autumn. Even the construction industry has been at it. The serious players are interested in competing on equal terms. Requirements for human resources were introduced at the turn of the year. Unfortunately, it turns out, in contacts with industry representatives, that it is not working as intended. So before the government expands the proposal to include more sectors, it would be a good idea first to ensure that it works. There are two concrete examples. First of all, the Tax Agency's inspectors appear on the construction sites without smart mobile, Ipad or other tools. They are therefore unable to follow up on electronic human resources in a legally secure manner. Secondly, the portal itself where notification of the site is registered is neither user-friendly nor effective and therefore causes unnecessary administration. There are other examples that we can discuss in another context. It is remarkable how little concrete focus the government places on jobs in view of the relatively high unemployment rate. Although the Social Democratic-led government talks about jobs and how important they are, concrete proposals are not presented. On the contrary, the government is reducing the conditions for businesses and presenting budgets that already in themselves make a clear contribution to fewer jobs. As far as costs are concerned, 20 billion for the ROT deductions is certainly a lot of money. But the government is not consistent. Rough half of the costs, about 11 1⁄2 billion, choose the government to keep. The ROT deductions will also be one of the five largest tax expenditures in the coming years. What, then, are the arguments why the ROT deductions are not completely abolished? I would really like to know if calculations have been made at the Ministry of Finance about the undeclared work. If so, what do they say? If no, why not? Is the government not generally interested in knowing how their proposal affects the existence of black jobs, in this specific case what the significance of the deterioration of the ROT deductions is?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-24	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that the ROT deductions decreased slightly in March, just as Anette Åkesson points out. But then it is also important to point out that they increased very much in December and January. You can imagine that some people have added more ROT work in December and January. We'll see how it develops in the long term. ROT deduction is a subsidy that has previously existed for reconstruction in private homes. Now, instead, we are putting a subsidy in order to build new homes. Then one might imagine that with this subsidy change some of the people who worked to rebuild housing in the future will be working on building new housing instead. My assessment is that Sweden has a great need for increased housing construction and that it is therefore sensible to spend part of the subsidy that was previously spent on rebuilding housing on building new housing instead. We have a glaring housing shortage, which we knew when we announced the change. But since then the housing shortage in Sweden has become much greater. It is therefore extremely important that we ensure that more new housing is built. As far as undeclared work is concerned, it was obviously reduced in the ROT sector when the very generous ROT deduction was introduced. The truth is that the ROT deduction that existed during the time of the Alliance was so great that in practice there was no tax in that industry. It is clear that the scope for undeclared work will be very small if you have no tax. If you want to combat undeclared work by essentially abolishing the tax, the problem with Anette Åkesson's reasoning is that there will not be much welfare state left in the end.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-29	Madam President, I would like I must admit that I did not quite understand the fact that no tax was paid. I don't really know how to interpret it. The development is as you thought, but you have to follow it in the longer term. It has been said that much was built in December and January and that the construction has then slowed down. That's why the building materials dealers' information is so interesting. The fact that the tax system is perceived as legitimate and fair is a guiding principle. This means that most citizens and businesses must think it is reasonable. The attitude measurements reported by the Swedish Tax Agency indicate that the ROT deductions have contributed to changing attitudes towards undeclared work. This is important on many levels, for example, for how much resources are required for the Tax Agency's control of tax errors. Has the government taken this into account? Black work has more negative effects than merely affecting people's general willingness to pay taxes. Black work is estimated to have lower productivity than white work, thus affecting growth. But it also means that those who work in a large way have to pay more tax. It is a success in several ways that things you can do yourself can be converted into services purchased. In this process of productification, ROT services have gone further than RUT services. Hopefully, the development will not stop because of the deterioration that the government has now carried out. At the same time, the limit is not always clear. Sometimes work that is illegal can be socially accepted. For example, exchanges of work under the legislation are black services and thus illegal. Most people probably don't even know that. The issue is also relevant in the light of the discussions on taxation in the collaborative economy. The Swedish Tax Agency's report About RUT and ROT and white or black from 2011 mentioned the previously large grey area between white and black work, the so-called legitimacy gap, which means that exchanges of illegal services under certain conditions are nevertheless considered by many to be legitimate. For example, it may be that the work is done on a small scale, that you have a personal relationship or that the seller has another main occupation. Before the RUT and ROT deductions were introduced, it was more or less self-evident to purchase these services. What is interesting is that political decisions have since influenced the opinion of the citizens. The Tax Agency's attitude measurements clearly show that the group that knows it is illegal to buy black services, but believes that under certain conditions it is okay, has decreased and almost disappeared. Legislation has thus been anchored, and there is widespread consensus that cheating is not legitimate. This also makes the Swedish Tax Agency's work more effective. A relatively small amount of resources can be devoted to remedying tax errors, i.e. helping those who make mistakes and trying to find those who engage in illegal activities. With the government's deterioration of RUT and ROT, we are in danger of a development in which the group that considers the services to be illegal but still legitimate is growing again. The construction industry is already seeing such developments, with an increased interest in buying services black. Has the Government taken this into account in its budget by increasing the Tax Agency's appropriations for control purposes? Has the government taken account of public reactions? Will people accept that more resources are needed for control activities? As conditions deteriorate, do we go back to the fact that more people consider it legitimate to buy black services? And again, how does the Minister of Finance estimate that confidence in the legitimacy of our tax system is affected by the deterioration?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-40	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson doesn't seem to understand. The ROT deduction is so generous that in practice the entire service is exempt from tax. So is the RUT system. With a 50% deduction, almost no tax is paid when these services are carried out. It is clear that when you have no tax, of course there will be little tax evasion. With Anette Åkesson's reasoning on resources for the Swedish Tax Agency, it is clear that in a society where you do not have any tax or have little tax, there is not a need for so much resources to control undeclared work or tax evasion because it is not charged tax. If you pursue Anette Åkesson's reasoning, which additional industries does Anette Åkesson want you to remove the tax from? Where to take the resources? What do you cut down on? Of course, as long as taxes are levied, there are problems with some people trying to avoid paying taxes. The tax has been abolished here, and it goes without saying that people are not involved in avoiding the tax, because in practice these services are exempt. I believe that it is a very dangerous way to go about combating tax evasion by abolishing the tax. It will be expensive, and that means that we will have to cut in welfare. I think that is the wrong way forward.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-44	Madam President, I would like Now it became even more unclear. Unlike black jobs, you pay both social security contributions and income tax for white jobs. There'll be a lot of tax revenue from white jobs-- then the Minister of Finance shakes his head. Well, we'll soon hear more about it. The RUT and ROT deductions contribute in two ways to counteract tax errors and thus support markets for white purchases. They stimulate the white demand of households, and in addition generate the information that can be used in the control of enterprises. As a result, with an increasing proportion of white purchases, the risk of detection increases. I miss these perspectives in the debate, as well as the improvement of productivity – i.e. the best use of resources – and thus the impact on growth. To be realistic, we must ensure that the work done in this area will never disappear completely, but as legislators we must ensure, as far as possible, a level playing field for companies and equal treatment. As far as the ROT deductions are concerned, I regret to say that the government has wanted to use the money in a different way, that is to say exactly what the Minister for Finance replied, but that it has not calculated, or has not cared about, what consequences the deterioration of the ROT deduction will have in the longer term in terms of tax revenues, undeclared jobs, people's attitudes and future behavioural changes, the conditions of serious companies, the tax authorities' likely increased resource needs for controls, productivity developments in society and the legitimacy of the entire tax system as a whole. All you have to do is regret it. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-48	Madam President, I would like What can explain why Anette Åkesson has written so many interpellations about both ROT and RUT is that she does not quite understand that the subsidy in those industries is so large that tax revenues do not increase significantly if someone works white instead of black because the deduction is so great. Basically, the entire tax has been removed. Anette Åkesson says that it is bad to support individual industries and that we should have a level playing field. There, the ROT deduction is something that goes exactly in the opposite direction. Given that certain sectors have been exempt from tax, politics has gone in and created different conditions and in a way also governed people's consumption. It is cheaper to rebuild bathrooms and kitchens rather than do anything else. In this way, politics has actually increased the dissociation of the economy. It does not create a level playing field between different industries, between the construction industry and a hairdresser, taxi or anything else you can spend your money on. So that reasoning doesn't really make sense. If you follow the line of reasoning that Anette Åkesson makes, you will find that it is a question of tax-exempting more industries and combating tax evasion in this way. I really think that would be a very dangerous way forward. I think the Moderates reason in a dangerous way. We cannot fight tax evasion by abolishing taxation in the area by area. Then we don't have money for our common welfare. It is my view that it is needed, but there I know there is a great political divide between the Moderates, who want to lower or remove taxes and cut down, and this government, which wants to expand and create a secure and secure welfare for all citizens.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-52	Madam President, I would like Ulf Berg has asked me how I feel about the tax simplification investigation's proposal for the abolition of a forest account. I have answered the exact same question from Ulf Berg less than four weeks ago. My answer today is the same as before. The tax simplification inquiry's proposals are being prepared in the Ministry of Finance together with the referrals that the proposals have prompted. I do not want to anticipate the outcome of that preparation.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-55	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the visit in Dalarna. Madam President, you did a great job visiting the business community, including in Vansbro. In addition, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It was not very far and may not be called nuclear, but the message was clear: Interpellation should not have been made. However, I take a different view. This is an incredibly important issue. The background is that the Alliance set up an investigation. In conclusion, we wanted to ensure that equity would be as cheap as borrowed. This has resulted in a number of proposals. One of them could mean that the forest account and a couple of other variants will not remain. Now the forest is extremely special. What I plant today as a forest owner may be harvested two generations away. That is when there will be revenue from what I spend on today. Today, the prices of pulpwood in large parts of Sweden are such that perhaps not even a first grid goes together. If you live in southern Sweden, in Södra's area, it may be a little better. But in many places in Dalarna, where I live, there are very low prices. If you can no longer set aside a revenue for several years during a felling, it will be incredibly costly for forest owners. A very large part will then not be able to be disposed of in an account, but it will be a high level of taxation. This is likely to lead to a deterioration in the efficiency of fellings. At least I'm worried about that. Much smaller areas will be harvested in order to avoid these tax effects. It will reduce profitability; we all know that moving forest machines in the form of harvesters and forwarders is expensive. This is not optimal from a climate point of view either. Smaller huts, in turn, may make rejuvenating more difficult. That's one part. The second part is that the industry obviously needs very good access to pulpwood and timber for sawn timber. For Swedish gross domestic product, it is essential that we have exports of nearly 130 billion. We all understand that this is a very important nutrition for Sweden and our welfare. That's why I think it's very important that the forest accounts remain. I am not entirely satisfied with the interpellation response, which is that the matter is being prepared. We have had an alliance government, and I have some idea that the matter is being prepared a bit is sometimes a good way to say that you have not come up with anything really good and think about it further. I think it would be extremely valuable, Madam President, if the Council of State could clearly state here and now that it will ensure that some form of forest account is maintained, so that there is no tax shock and that sensible forestry can be carried out.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-64	Madam President, I would like I appreciate that Ulf Berg and I share the view that the forest is a very important industry. The forestry industry is very important for Sweden, for Swedish growth, for Swedish jobs and for Swedish export revenues. It is also about opportunities for growth, development and jobs throughout the country, all over Sweden. It is therefore important that we have a viable and vibrant forest industry. I see great future opportunities for the forest industry with a wider range of products. It is therefore important that this issue be properly dealt with in the Government Office and properly prepared. However, it is important to point out that what the investigation proposes is that existing forest accounts should continue to exist and that new account provisions should be subject to a different possibility of tax provisions. It is therefore not the case that the possibility of tax provisions as proposed by the investigation should be abolished. It is important to signal this to the forestry industry, so that they know that there is no total abolition under that proposal either. Let's look at this. This proposal is part of a whole. We will continue to prepare the issue and make a final position when we are done with the preparation.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-67	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, difficult to make an assessment when we do not know what the final proposal will be. But for many, the investigation proposal is sufficient to make the clear assessment that there will be a deterioration for many. One thing you should also remember, I think, is that there are more and more so-called inhabitants, that is, people who live in the big city and own forest. As a rule, they have other jobs. If you do a larger felling that is put on top of other income, there is not much left. At the same time, we know that fellings create jobs and jobs where the forest is. There should be someone who drives the harvester, someone who drives the forwarder, someone who drives the truck that delivers the timber to the industry and so on. In addition, jobs are created in connection with replantings and the like. But it is not only predestined fellings that occur, but also what happens in storms, insect attacks, and fires. Then the forest owner cannot determine the surface to be felled. Unfortunately, we have very tragic memories of Gudrun. In Småland, individual forest owners were incredibly hard hit. You might have worked and worked and worked, not paid the highest salary and had it a little bit with pension provisions. The pension was in the woods. But all of a sudden it disappeared. In a few hours, it was down. It was even the case that people committed suicide because they were so severely affected. This could hit me extremely hard. I can only appeal to the government to take this issue very seriously in its preparation. I hope that we can avoid the negative consequences that might perhaps be the case if we take full account of the investigation's proposals. I think we all benefit from ensuring that we have rational forestry. Forestry is something incredibly long-term, as I said in the last speech. What I put into work and money today, I can finance by doing the right things on my wife's property a couple of generations back. That is why we really need to ensure that we can continue in a very good way, so that we have raw materials for our industry. What must not happen is that forest owners stop using their forest because it is not an idea anyway. Madam President, I would like Surely both I and the Minister for Finance believe that if only some of the research results become reality, the forest will be a major raw material industry for the technology of the future. Now the forest may not save the entire climate, but it is a carbon sink today, and as long as we have the wood left, it is still a carbon sink. The forest will certainly have a bearing on tomorrow's fuel. When going to carnival you will be able to drink darts from a paper bottle with wood as a starting point and avoid the glass fragment. It's almost there already. It is very exciting going on, and I hope once again that the Minister for Finance will be able to give a clear statement that things will continue to be good in the future.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-72	Madam President, I would like I really share Ulf Berg's enthusiasm for the potential of Swedish forestry, the new technology and the new products that can emerge from it. It's about how much more we can do with the forest than we could ever fantasize about 10 to 15 years ago. These are fuels and also completely new products such as liquid packaging of wood. Then there is the whole big housing problem that needs to be resolved. We need to build a lot more. There is also an incredible potential in Swedish wooden houses where you can combine the fantastic raw material with the building technology skills available. There is much to develop here. I see great opportunities for Swedish forestry in the future. Just as Ulf Berg says, forestry is something that is very long-term. It is important to create incentives for owners to have a long-term perspective. That is also why it is important that the issue be properly addressed. I myself was Secretary of State for tax matters during the storm Gudrun. They learned a lot about forest taxation for a few days. We made some changes precisely to face the acute crisis there and then. It's important. The great forest fire under the bourgeois government also made some rapid and urgent changes to try to meet the acute problems faced by the forest farmers in the acute situations there and then.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-76	Madam President, I would like I hope the Minister of Finance will take that knowledge into account. It is true that measures were taken at that time. Action has also been taken in the case of subsequent natural disasters. It merely proves that in those cases the tax system has effects which the legislator did not want. You can defend bureaucracy. You don't always do that, but sometimes you have to do it. A great many rules that have come into being to adjust things have been introduced to avoid, for example, high taxes. A forest account could be a good example of that. Normally, provisioning funds work in different ways for a normal industry where income is relatively evenly distributed. However, other parts of the forest must be used. The tax could kill businesses. Let us ensure that the forest industry is not affected. In the previous interpellation debate here today, it was said that too high a tax means that business does not survive, but it becomes a black market. We all find that boring. I can delight the Minister for Finance with the fact that my bathroom has started to be torn out, so the ROT lives to some extent. Thank you for a good debate, Minister of Finance.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-80	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate. I'll tell you again that preparation is ongoing. It is good that there is such a broad political consensus in the Swedish Parliament on the importance of the forest industry and the development potential that exists in the sector. This applies not least to the potential for job creation, growth and development across the country.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-81	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me when the government can be expected to report an open and transparent estimate of the tax increase for 200 000 Swedish pensioners and the tax increase on older people's work that the government is now carrying out. As a tax policy spokesperson, I believe that Niklas Wykman knows that the basic deduction and the increased basic deduction for older people are expressed in terms of price base amounts. This means that a change in the base amount affects the amount of the basic deduction in SEK and thus the tax to be paid. In the event of unchanged rules, a reduction in the base amount, like the one that was introduced in 2016, means that the tax to be paid on a given income will be slightly higher in 2016 compared to 2015. The tax will thus be higher without any changes in tax rules. The tax changes implemented by the Government are reported openly and transparently in the government's proposals. As regards the taxation of pensioners, the Government considers that the unfair difference between the taxation of income from work and the taxation of pensions introduced by the moderate-led government should be abolished. In a first step, the government has strengthened the increased basic deduction for older people so that pensioners over 65 years of age are not taxed higher than employees under 65 years of age on income up to approximately SEK 120 000 per year. The increased basic deduction was also reinforced for those with pensions up to SEK 240 000 per year. The government's reform means that with the lowest pensions they pay lower taxes this year than they would if the government did not make the change. The Government's ambition is to take further steps to reduce tax differentials between labour income and pension.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-85	Madam President, I would like Swedish pensioners just received a technical and cryptic message from the Minister for Finance. It is not the fault of the Minister of Finance. It is the fault of the calculation conventions that they receive increased tax. I believe that the pensioners who are now receiving increased tax according to the tax payers' calculation do not care so much whether it is the calculation conventions or the Finance Minister himself who makes it worse. Madam President, I would like Nor do I think that the same pensioners are very happy with the message: it was not me as a pensioner who would be better off, but it was my children and grandchildren who would be worse off. That's what the Minister of Finance actually said in the election campaign. I don't think that's what they heard when they were promised the reduced tax. Madam President, I would like The conjuncture is now on fire. This does not benefit Swedish pensioners at all or very little. It is an active choice by the Minister of Finance, who instead promises generous implicit guarantees to Sweden's banks, who do not take action on the housing market, who are in deficit throughout their term of office, despite the fact that the output gap is closing and Swedish growth is high, which violates the fiscal framework either year during their government holdings, who do not conduct sound public fiscal policy during some year their time as Minister of Finance and for this receives much criticism from, among other things, the Council of Finance Policy. One might wonder about the Ministry of Finance's priority when there will be no money left for Sweden's pensioners. Instead, there are pledges for new major implicit guarantees for Sweden's banks. What's the connection? The Sveken from the Minister of Finance is by now known. There would be no increased taxes on wage earners. There were 1.3 million wage earners who received increased taxes. There would be no increase in petrol tax. There was an increase in gas tax. The fiscal framework would not be torn down. The surplus was abandoned. You can make the list of vows a long one. The empty barn has been filled with betrayed promises, and the vows barn is empty. Swedish pensioners are perhaps the most betrayed in such cases. It was 200 000 who got increased taxes. They were promised reduced taxes. The maximum rate has been reduced for Swedish pensioners. M an has reduced the employment tax deduction, increased government income tax, reduced ROT and RUT and made it more expensive to work after the age of 65. The promised tax cuts amounted to 2.2 billion. What was not said was that tax increases for the same group were introduced at 3.7 billion. Overall, the Minister of Finance has taken EUR 1 1⁄2 billion in increased expenditure and reduced revenue for the country's pensioners. Nothing of this was heard in the election movement. Now that we see how the betrayal of Sweden's pensioners is so extensive, a new question of a moral nature is raised to the Finance Minister: What promises, or promises in which areas, is it okay to lie about in the next election movement?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-92	Madam President, I would like It's a very high tone from Niklas Wykman. I would like to start by pointing out that public finance deficits will not be as large at any time during this period as when Niklas Wykman was at the Ministry of Finance. Niklas Wykman will then say that this is about a better economy. I would like to point out that the cyclically adjusted savings, the structural savings, will not be as great during this term of office as it was when Niklas Wykman was at the Ministry of Finance, despite the fact that we have had a huge increase in the costs of many people coming to apply for asylum in Sweden last year. It is a well-balanced and tight fiscal policy based on the prevailing conditions. As far as pensioners are concerned, the Government's ambition is to remove the unfair tax gap that makes pensioners pay higher taxes than ordinary wage earners. Here is the government's ambition to remove that tax gap, while the Moderates in their policy instead propose a new sixth job tax deduction that would further widen the gap. We think this is the wrong way to go. We think it is important for pensioners to be well off. That is why we have carried out a series of efforts to improve for pensioners. In addition to the tax reduction, we have invested 2 billion in strengthening care for the elderly in order to make it safer and better in everyday life for all our elderly. We are making a special effort on retirement homes. We have also increased housing allowances for pensioners with the lowest incomes. It is a broad palette of efforts for pensioners in addition to the tax reduction. Here it is important that Niklas Wykman decides how to argue. Either he looks at the effects of the discretionary decisions made by the government or he looks at the effects of the decisions on the wallet. As far as pensioners are concerned, Niklas Wykman does not want to look at the discretionary decision taken by the government, which is a tax reduction, but wants to look at the fact that some pensioners receive a tax increase of up to SEK 11 per month. He wants to look at the outcome, not the decision the government makes. When it comes to the breakpoint, Niklas Wykman just wants to look at the decision the government makes and not at the outcome of the wallet of the employees. What Niklas Wykman calls a tax increase, because the government has decided not to list the breakpoint with KPI+2 but it is still, does not mean an increase in tax for a person from December 2015 to January 2016. There Niklas Wykman does not want to discuss the outcome, but only the discretionary decision. Perhaps Niklas Wykman can clarify the principle to which one should adhere. It is not possible to have different principles when it comes to pensioners and when it comes to breaking points.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-100	Madam President, I would like You're amazed! Let me set out a principle that I think is reasonable to stick to in politics, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, namely to express oneself so that people understand, be clear to the Swedish people with what policy they have and what effect it has. You don't have to come up with technical tricks afterwards. They tell the Swedish people that they certainly said they would get B, but now it is C instead. Why is that? Yes, it depends on the technicality of D. You are completely innocent, and you understand that what you said is perceived as almost lying and completely wrong, but those who dig really deep into the technology and read the fine print and footnotes in the budget bill will see that the Finance Minister is free from debt. They should have read better and had better track of the various technical details. I think, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that one can stick to a simple principle, namely to express oneself in a straight and honest manner so that people understand and understand what it is really about, not just do everything to win a choice and conquer as much power as possible and to sit in the finest rooms and make as many decisions as possible. Politics should be about social improvement, about taking responsibility for people, taking responsibility for the common society, giving clear and clear answers and being a security in troubled times. One should not be someone who blames technicalities when the outcome was exactly the opposite, namely an increase in tax for 200 000 pensioners. In addition, there is a 11⁄2 billion increase in tax and expenditure on those over 65. That's not what the Minister of Finance said in the election campaign, but that's what she's delivered at the Ministry of Finance. Madam President, I would like The moral principle should also be supported by social democrats. The Alliance made clear improvements for Swedish pensioners. A regular pensioner received SEK 850 more in his wallet. Now that the Finance Minister is talking about how pensioners should have it, it is clear that it is not about pensioners getting better, but about children and grandchildren getting worse. So it is not a question of you as a pensioner who hears this being better off. It's about your children and grandchildren getting worse. The tax gap between pensioners and income earners is to be closed. That is the only thing the Finance Minister promises, and it is therefore clear that a tax increase is probably expected for people who are not pensioners. If you feel that your situation is getting better because your children and grandchildren are getting worse, the Finance Minister's proposal is not so bad. But if you feel that you want to benefit yourself from improvements and the growth that is now taking place in society in a way that the current government completely keeps away from pensioners, the policy of the Alliance is better and clearer. It provides more jobs, a stronger and more robust pension system and thus a more secure income that can increase over time so that you get the growth that the Finance Minister has partly promised away as implicit guarantees to Sweden's banks. The Alliance and the Moderates stand for a clear policy where it will be better for Sweden's pensioners. For this we are prepared to keep tight and tight in the reins of the financial sector, where the government is now making great commitments. Madam President, I would like So the principle is simple. Say what you want to do, implement it, then tell the Swedish people clearly what you want to do next time. This is precisely what we are talking about next time, when it has turned out that what the Minister for Finance said was not right at all. Unchanged petrol tax was increased petrol tax. The remaining framework became a scrapped surplus target. No increase in income tax for ordinary income earners was increased income tax. There was an increase in expenditure on Swedish pensioners. What should you trust next time? That is not how a country's public finances are managed responsibly.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-110	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman's reasoning is not connected. Niklas Wykman cannot say that employees with the same tax in 2015 and 2016 have received increased tax. It is the same tax in 2016 as in 2015 because the breakpoint has been frozen. You cannot say that employees have received increased tax while saying that pensioners have received increased tax. That reasoning is not connected, Niklas Wykman. You have to try to be a little more logical in your reasoning. On the other hand, the ideological difference is clear. The Moderates want a tax gap between pensioners and wage earners. There is a clear dividing line in Swedish politics. The Moderates want pensioners to pay higher taxes on the same income. When they retire and earn a lower income, the Moderates charge higher taxes. With a sixth job tax deduction, the Moderates want to make that difference even bigger. We in the government want to remove the tax gap. We do not think it is right and reasonable that when you retire after a long working life, you should also receive a higher tax. The government has made significant improvements for pensioners, including through the 2 billion that we have invested in strengthening elderly care so that everyday life will be really safe for all the many elderly who depend on home care in order to be able to live a full and good life. The government has announced an additional 10 billion so that municipalities and county councils can employ you in childcare, school, care for the elderly and home care. It is extremely important to have a secure welfare for all citizens of Sweden. We still don't know how the Moderates will stand up to that money. So far, the Moderates have simply said that they want to invest additional resources in the school. It has not been said whether you are prepared to invest further in care for the elderly so that municipalities and county councils can ensure safe care for the elderly. Maybe Niklas Wykman can answer that. Do you want to invest more in care for the elderly? Yes or no?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-116	Madam President, I would like War is peace. It's a famous strof because messages aren't connected. What we have seen the Minister of Finance do so far, for example, is to increase the maximum rate for the charge for elderly care. Everything is called bets when it comes from the Social Democrats. Whether it gets worse or better for people, it's still a bet. When you bring down 1 billion at school, it's a big investment in school. In the Social Democratic rhetoric, all you do is make investments. It just doesn't get people together — rightly so. What is not correct is the Minister for Finance's description of how the Swedish economy is doing. You can't speak if it's a Tesla or a Volvo you drive around in, but it's definitely not a fire truck. The interest rates are negative. On the side of the Minister for Finance, the economy is on fire despite the boom. The finance minister says there are lower deficits now than under the alliance government. I think most people are prepared to think that's a good thing. Under the alliance government, the world economy went through the worst global economic crisis since the depression. Instead, there is now a major boom. The failure of the Minister for Finance, and what seriously challenges the security of Sweden's pensioners, is that now that we are in a time when we are going to fill up the barns, Magdalena Andersson chooses to burn the economy instead. That's not how you run public finances. That's not how the framework is constructed. It leaves Göran Persson's legacy in Swedish politics – that basically only concerns the purchase of lignite, coal power and nuclear power on the European continent. But what surprises me most, Madam President, is that Magdalena Andersson is standing here talking about closing the tax gap – without telling us how to do it. There are likely to be only tax increases for children and grandchildren. Magdalena Andersson stands for a policy where money goes from children and grandchildren to banks.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-123	Madam President, I would like There is also a difference in the view of banks between Moderates and Social Democrats: While Moderates bark at banks, we make sure to do something – tax banks and spend that money on our common welfare. There is a difference between talking and making, a clear difference in Swedish politics. As far as school is concerned, it is important to make it clear that we brought forward a billion-dollar investment and paid it before the end of the year, in December. So when the Moderates claim that it is a saving, they are completely wrong. It's a pure lie. We brought forward 1 billion, but the investments we made in December we are not doing now. So it is no less money for the school in 2016 than it would have been otherwise. It is an error, a misconception or a pure lie on the part of the Moderates – choose yourself! Nor did I receive an answer about care for the elderly. We are clear: this government has already invested EUR 2 billion in strengthening care for the elderly, in that there should be more staff. We have also made a special effort of competence among the staff in elderly care to ensure that all our elderly people have a really good and safe care for the elderly. In addition, we now bring another 10 billion to municipalities, where a lot of it will go to elderly care. Niklas Wykman cannot answer how the Moderates view this. But so far we can see that Moderate policy is about tax cuts and cuts rather than investing in our common welfare and in a safe old age for pensioners. There is another clear ideological difference. The difference is not only that the Moderates talk about the banks but do nothing about them, while we talk less but tax the banks. The Moderates like to talk about care for the elderly, but there won't be any money. We in the Social Democrats and the government make sure to invest in care for the elderly. It is also about the pensioner's tax, where you have created the tax gap. We want to eliminate the tax gap and have taken a first step towards ensuring that pensioners do not pay higher taxes. We are doing this at the same time as ensuring that we have lower deficits, and not just on the basis of our economic situation. The structural deficit will also be smaller with this government than when Niklas Wykman was in the Ministry of Finance.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-130	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative for an evaluation in order to learn from the merger into the region of Västra Götaland before the Government and the Government proceed with new regional reforms and whether it is the Council of State's view that the voice of the people should be listened to and citizens should vote on the matter before a regional formation is decided. The issue of the region has been investigated several times, most recently by the Committee of Responsibilities and the Report on State Regional Administration. It is clear from these investigations, among other things, that the current classification of counties and county councils is largely no longer appropriate. The recent report of the Highly Specialised Care Report also proposes fewer health professionals. Several of the county councils are too small to cope with their tasks both in the short and long term. The county administrative boards have similar problems. The division committee works in collaboration with Skåne and Västra Götaland County Council and thus gets a share of lessons from previous regional formations. The purpose of setting up the Division Committee is to create an appropriate division and efficient organisations that bring lasting benefits, including through better adaptation to demographic, nutrient and environmental conditions. The division will also provide stable economic conditions in the newly formed county councils, better coherence between citizens' needs and their ability to exercise democratic influence, and increased opportunities for accountability. An important part of this is to give those responsible a fundamentally stable structure. It is also of the utmost importance to look at this issue from a long-term perspective. The studies carried out have highlighted the importance of taking these measures before it becomes too difficult for those responsible to deal with different challenges. The state must therefore assume its responsibility to ensure that Sweden has a functioning social organisation. A new division means the creation of county councils that have a better economic basis for the necessary investments and that will be better able to provide citizens with equal care. In addition, modern knowledge development is promoted in county councils. The division will also create good conditions throughout the country and not only in the metropolitan areas. A new division thus means greater opportunities to hold the whole of Sweden together by giving county councils and county boards more similar basic conditions. As regards the possibility for the population to speak out in a referendum, it can be noted that there are no such provisions in the Division Act concerning the division of county councils. It is therefore up to each county council to assess whether and, if so, how it intends to implement any specific initiative regarding the attitude of the population.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-139	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. First of all, I just want to say that it is strange that the government at this point, when this formation of the region is going to be so amazing and solve all the problems we have around the country, is so afraid that you can't even make an evaluation from the government and look at what has happened in Västra Götaland, go through those issues or tune with people who live in the area – and then maybe not only with those who live in Gothenburg but also with those who live a bit from the major central cities. Moreover, if this is so great and will solve all the problems in society, it is reasonable that you should also ask the people if you are in this and think that it is as good as you in the government seem to think. Madam President, I would like When we started up the Västra Götaland region there was great doubt about it. A negotiation was then made and discussed. This was done in 1999. At that time, it was also decided how to distribute different activities within the Västra Götaland region. Some authorities, state and regional, would be located in different places. This was, after many if and but, the different municipalities agreed on. Then what happened? Two three years later, representatives of the minister's party said: Yes, but that agreement is several years old. We cannot take this into account now. Now we have to do something else. That is why my question to the Minister must be: will the negotiations now going on around us be valid, or will they only apply as long as the ink is still wet on paper? Will the representatives then say: No, this was after all a few years since we agreed; now we are doing something else? In that case, it is a good thing to tell clearly those who are going to be involved in these discussions and negotiations and say: This is still nothing that will apply, so do not put too much effort into that particular part! It is also strange that the Minister mentions that this is clear and clear. Then I go back to my interpellation and ask the questions that I asked there, because then there must be answers to them. Surely the Minister must have looked that through. How much tax money have we saved in Västra Götaland because we merged municipalities and made a region? It must be in black and white if you've done a proper investigation. Has the conversion meant greater efficiency for the area, shorter waiting times and lower taxes for the inhabitants of the region? I had hoped that the Minister would have responded to this, since it is precisely the questions I raise in the interpellation. I had hoped there was a hint. Instead, the Minister says: There have been investigations. But here we have no answers, and now we are rolling on as we have thought. Then we hope and believe that people around the country are working on this solution, which will solve all possible problems in healthcare and regionalisation in the future. Brief questions to the Minister: Why are you afraid to carry out a proper evaluation of Västra Götaland? Will you secure papers and negotiations so that what might be agreed upon in the case of a new region formation will also be implemented? If so, how will you secure these things? It must not be like in Västra Götaland that three four years after the formation of the region you completely ignore what you agreed on, run your own race and say: It's two three-year-old papers – we can't take a stand on that now.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-153	Madam President, I would like I cannot resist the temptation to take part in the debate. Since I am about to leave the Riksdag to go to the county council, I have been involved in the discussion about the Division Committee and the investigation from Dalarna's horizon. The question is very interesting. It is often pointed out that Västra Götaland has succeeded very well, and to some extent they refer to Skåne. Surely that example is not so brilliant when it comes to solidity, for example. It is on − 8 in Skåne. There is a county council that beats it, and it unfortunately happens to be Dalarna, with − 10 in solidity. Then it's really bad. Should Dalarna be part of a larger region, this is probably the only way. You used to go around and look at them on the dung pile. Was it big, then it was a rich family. It was a good way to get married. But I can guarantee that if someone goes around and looks at the County Council Dalarna, it is probably almost forced marriages that must be made in order for anyone to want to have anything to do with Dalarna, with the economy that the County Council Dalarna has. Then you look at Västra Götaland. Will health care at home in Dalarna be much better, based on Västra Götaland's experiences? There are no good examples. However, there is a good example in Halland. There you have a region with good economics and good supply. I am happy to admit that you naturally have the help of being close to Gothenburg. While I am in Gothenburg, I will ask to quote a Social Democrat who has unfortunately left us, namely Göran Johansson. He said: It doesn't matter how big the wheel is. There's only one hub. That's what's gonna happen, I think. This is a blow to the countryside. Urbanization is in the municipality. It is available at county level and also in the country as a whole. I cannot see in any way that this could increase growth. I would like to see the example of the Government in how this can improve the business community. There will be no more infrastructure money, as I see it. Possibly someone is imagining that we could take a little more of someone else. It is the government and parliament that determine the size of that bag. Then I hope, and we may be politically agreed on this, that this must be seen more as string thinking. We can do that without creating large regions. I fully agree with my colleague Sten Bergheden here. It would be great with clear examples of what has made all pilgrimages to Västra Götaland because it has become so good with a large region. I don't see those people. Why not develop this as a basis for those of us who are in this process? Right now it feels as if you are anxious that this should go quickly when you take the decision from the government, so that the facts will not catch up. Give me the facts: Why is it good to form large regions? I can't find this in Västra Götaland, but please enlighten me!
i-6289d10808f5b54d-162	Madam President, I would like First, I wish Ulf Berg success with the upcoming assignment in the beautiful Dalarna. It is of the utmost importance that we do everything we can to ensure the welfare of our country as a whole. The very rapid rate of urbanisation that we have seen and seen in Sweden combined with a wave of centralisation in the Swedish state, which has weakened the Swedish state's presence in the country, means that we have quite serious challenges ahead of us. The government takes this very seriously, both in terms of location and administrative division. Let me remind the interpellete and Members of Parliament of one aspect that is often forgotten, namely that the regional division of the state is important for the coordination of the state, that is, coordination between the state authorities and between the state and the regional and local levels. At present, we have a situation in which the state authorities have their own, unique regional divisions. If the MPs use the time to sit down with municipal and county politicians – Ulf Berg will be one of them in a while – they will understand that one of the most important messages from the Municipality and County Councils is that this must be done so that we get the order for coordination between the state, municipalities and county councils: Create now even regions, so that some around the big cities don't draw from the rest! It is about ensuring growth and development throughout our country. Make sure that the labour market regions in the rest of our country are enlarged, as has happened in Västra Götaland! Then we will have a narrowing of the regional divide in our amazing country. Madam President, I would like This question is not new. If I had stood here as Minister of State and said things that were my own opinions, concocted at the Ministry of Finance, I could have understood the questioners. I can start by reading the 1959 County Investigation. If I get tired of it, I can read the 1963 county inquiry, the 1974 county inquiry, the 19 92 regional inquiry, the 1995 regional committee, the 2007 committee of responsibility or the 2012 state regional division inquiry. The question I have to ask myself is: Why should only Gothenburg, Stockholm and Malmö get the administrative opportunities to work with labour market enlargement and coordination with the state? Why shouldn't our whole country be allowed to do this? If I am interested in the experiences of Västra Götaland and Skåne, which I am, I could have visited the seminar organised by Västra Götaland's management here in the Riksdag a couple of weeks ago and taken note of their experiences and asked the questions that are relevant to them. If I had not been satisfied with this, I would have been able to read the evaluations of regional enlargement made in the basis of the discharge committee. If I don't trust this, I can go to the University of Gothenburg, which has conducted a ten-year research programme, between 1999 and 2009, focusing on monitoring and evaluation of the development of the Västra Götaland region. If I am not satisfied with this, I can take note of the latest reports on this subject. We know that Sweden is being split. We know that the regional divide and the risks of health care and welfare that are not equal are a threat to the cohesion of our country. The question we should ask ourselves is: Is the Swedish state obliged to act? The government's answer is: Yes, we are obliged to act.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-170	Madam President, I would like It is particularly remarkable that the Minister paints such a positive and bright picture of the regions and the development that has been around Malmö and Gothenburg and elsewhere. I can inform the Minister that I live in one of these regions. I've seen the development of regional formation. I've seen the defoliation of large parts of Skaraborg. It has been completely dismantled. It has not created any development for our area. It has created a phase-out for our area. You have to bring this with you. It has benefited precisely what the Minister is referring to here. The big cities have benefited, and businesses have moved to the big cities for various reasons. Now the Minister says that this is the solution for the rest of the country too. We will continue in exactly the same way in the rest of the country. We're going to raid the small municipalities and transfer it to the big municipalities. That is what creates development, says the Minister. I don't believe it, and I know it hasn't worked. That is why I have called for an evaluation to be carried out. I think it goes without saying that you do it before you move on. You evaluate this in an objective and correct way and see what you can benefit from it so that you do not make the same mistakes again. I still have no reply from the Minister. In the negotiations that will be carried out, will these protocols be followed in the new regions, or will they be done as in Västra Götaland and completely ignore them, put them away after four years and say that you are going another way? Will the Minister be involved in tricking the rest of the country into entering the regions? I would like an answer to that. How will the Minister ensure that what is agreed is followed? Here, the minister can go back and look at how it has been done. Västra Götaland has not followed it. It's as simple as that. Madam President, I would like There's one more thing. I listened to Question Time with the Minister earlier. Then the minister said: It is important that we push through this change, not because the government wants it, but because there is a desire from those who work in healthcare and have knowledge of the challenges of healthcare. ..................................................... The minister confirms this, too. He doesn't want this either. The Minister does not think it is the smartest solution, but it is other people who want this. Then it's gonna be great. I am also going around a lot in the country, Madam President, and I meet these people. I have not met a single person who has said at the first meeting: come here and form a large region in this area so that we can solve our problems! We have such amazing concerns about business conditions, jobs, housing, infrastructure and other things. We believe that we will solve this only if we get a large region of politicians sitting above this level. It's not one. One might ask what meetings the Minister ends up in when he hears this. It is not the Minister who wants this, it is other people. No, the people out there have never asked for this. This is a thing coming from above. On the other hand, Madam President, it is precisely the opposite when I go around. They say this: Put it down with regions! We don't believe it. Put the county councils down! That's what they say. It's one of the things that often comes up. But the Minister is prepared to run over the people and ignore the negotiations that have taken place. I still haven't heard how to secure those negotiations. I'd like to know from the Minister. How are you going to ensure that the negotiations that you are now conducting are actually carried out and that you are not being fooled away in the same way as we in Västra Götaland?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-180	Madam President, I would like I think I have to start by saying something nice to the Government, because these were words and no songs. I fully share Sten's view, but I will commend the Government on its view of government jobs. I'm on the Parliamentary Rural Committee, and I've been fighting for this state job thing. It is the state that often disappears first from rural and small towns. That you have a new vision there, I very much welcome, as a rural resident. I would like to pay tribute to the Government for that. Then there may not be so many more praises, but I think: If you do good things you should hear it. We can stick to County Council Dalarna. About 9 billion owns the county council to decide over. Of course, these 9 billion will be included in this large region. And all of a sudden, you're a minority. Then it will be considerably more difficult to protect what you want for this 9 billion. Of course others want this money. I guess that's why you want to get into these big regions. You think someone else should be there to pay. It's usually a good thing, but in the end it's actually the residents who will get the bill in one way or another, whatever it looks like. For my part, I think it's much better to go around and negotiate. And it's going on right now in the county council. You negotiate. Where is the highly specialised care to be located? And then you get along. It is not more difficult than when I went and negotiated with the current Member of Parliament Stig Henriksson and former left-wing partyist Kent Persson during my municipal councillor's time a few years ago. We agreed across county boundaries and across municipal boundaries and did good things. From Uppsala you go to Stockholm to work. You have no idea you're crossing a county border. There are other things that govern labour market regions.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-186	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a very clear answer! Many people are calling for equal health care. One might ask, and one might ask the Moderates and voters: What is the money going to do? Are we going to pay for administration and health care managers, or are we going to go to health care professionals? Just as the Government explained very well, it is not an investigation. Many studies have been carried out, and everyone has pointed in this direction: that there is a need for more coordination, especially for highly specialised health care. It is strange that Sten Bergheden and the Moderates do not want to see an equal health care and equal opportunities around the country. The Stockholm region, Västra Götaland and Malmö actually go ahead and leave us others behind, including Västerbotten, Dalarna and Norrbotten. It is reasonable that we should look at modern conditions once and for all, even though the present division has lasted for many centuries. Then it is that it is from the politicians who are actually going to join, who are actually going to make the decisions: how is each region going to work? What division should we have? I have my mother living in Falköping in Västra Götaland. As a Westerner you are actually quite impressed when you see how public transport works even out in the sparsely populated areas of Västra Götaland in a completely different way than it has the conditions to do in Västerbotten, which I am from. You can also look at the cost of this. If we look at how much care you get for the money, we see that you get more in the three regions that go ahead. You get more highly specialised care for your money. No, I think it's time. I wish the Minister good luck. We're going to give all the support we can for this to go into port as soon and as smoothly as possible.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-193	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Members of Parliament, for a good discussion! Sten Bergheden is very critical of the moderate-led Västra Götaland region. I have a different party colour than the management of the Västra Götaland region, but let me defend them. No county council politician sits on the bench in the county councils to reduce health care conditions, but all our managements in our county councils and regions are doing their best to secure the future of healthcare, improve public transport and promote regional development. I am very pleased and proud to belong to a government that last Thursday decided to decentralise responsibility for regional development issues. Sweden is to be regionalised, and it is with a regional and local foundation that welfare can be developed and streamlined in the best possible way in our country. It is not the case that regional reform solves all the challenges that exist in health care or in welfare. However, the organisation, structure and administrative structure are important for the activities and affect the efficiency of the activities. It is not the people, the citizens, who are to adapt to the structure of the public sector. It is the structure of the public sector that should be adapted to the needs of people and the development of today's society. Madam President, I would like Movement patterns are changing in our country. But one of the problems we have is that the enlargement of the labour market region is not taking place throughout our country. This is one of the reasons for the regional divides that we see. Madam President, I would like We now know, after all these investigations, that we will be able to develop effective health care and use the resources for health care in the best possible way, a user capacity, a basis, somewhere between 1 and 2 million is required. It's not a public opinion. It is not a figure that has been found by the government, but a solid basis from several different investigations. Madam President, I would like We can also learn from the experience of Denmark. We can learn from the experiences of Norway. We can study the debate in Finland. It's not that we don't have the knowledge. We know that we need a user base somewhere there in order to secure the future of health care. Then the question is: Should the government passively sit and watch and accept that the regional divides are growing, or should we take hold of this? Should we also deal with the state regional organisation, so that it is in line with today's needs and is adapted to the specific coordination requirements that one should have in a system of municipal self-government? Sweden has a well-functioning well-being because we have expanded welfare locally and regionally. This anchoring and adaptation to local and regional needs and conditions has enabled us to use resources as efficiently as possible. We must constantly modernise and streamline the public sector, and then we must also dare to listen to the professions. I would recommend that Sten Bergheden contact the Medical Association, the Health Association and all the other professional organisations in this area. Ask the question to those who work in welfare: Is it activities that are important, or are they old structures and administrative divisions? There we must conduct the debate if we are serious about an equal Sweden that should stick together.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-203	Madam President, I would like I can say, for information, that I meet the people who live in these areas every day, in Mariestad, Skaraborg and all of it, and they have a completely different picture from that of the minister here today. Maybe they're the ones who'll decide how they want their future. However, the Minister refuses to do so. The Minister does not want a referendum on it, and he does not want to make an evaluation of the area. This is strange, because if it were so good, it would surely not be difficult to do that. That is the question I have asked here today, as well as how to secure what is agreed. Then the Minister tried to take some cheap points that Västra Götaland is governed by Moderates today. Yes, but since 1999 it has been largely governed by the Social Democrats. It is the Social Democrats that I have discussed with in Västra Götaland who have claimed that these are years-old papers that they can no longer stand for. Go downstairs and do your homework, Minister! You haven't read on this, and you should do it before you move on with the region reform. The government and the Minister intend to implement something that nobody has asked for, and they refuse to make an evaluation of the regions that already exist. It also refuses to listen to what the people in the area think. Instead, it is said that someone else wants this. Nor does the Minister himself want it, but someone else wants it; the Minister only does what everyone else wants. I've met all those others, and no, they don't want this. It is the minister and the government who want it. Why don't you stand for it, because you're the one working on it? I think it's strange. I asked this interpellation to get answers to a number of questions. The Minister has referred to evaluations, investigations and everything else. Answers to the questions I asked – how much less tax and other things there has been in these areas – have not been reported in this interpellation debate a. The only thing that has been reported is that the Minister does not want the regions either, but that he intends to do it anyway.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-210	Madam President, I would like It is clear that a great deal of work has been done. After Mats Svegfors' investigation in 2007, work started with new regions. In northern Sweden they gathered in committees and decided which way to go. It ended with three counties applying to be able to move forward in a common region. Stefan Attefall answered this in the previous government with a debate article in Dagens Nyheter, where he noted that it was doubtful whether the mandate existed and that you should continue working from below and so little blutter – nothing. All the regional work that had actually been done was thrown away. That is how the previous government dealt with this important issue. This is how the previous government looked at providing the same conditions. To Sten Bergheden, however, I would like to say that we have been given a mandate. The Social Democrats were very clear when we went to elections: we will create better and equal conditions. This is also what the government and the government declaration have put forward: we will create better conditions regionally. What the people are asking, Sten Bergheden, is that when you fall ill, for example, you get a stroke, a heart attack or cancer, you should get the best possible care in the shortest possible time. Now, after an investigation, an investigation has shown that this is not the case. There is a need for significantly better opportunities in the form of equal health care, equal opportunities for public transport and regional development. Good luck, Minister!
i-6289d10808f5b54d-215	Madam President, I would like I moved to Sweden in the turn of 1989/ 90. The first period in Sweden I went a lot between Sandviken and Stockholm. The probably strongest memory I have from these months is the surprise and admiration that I felt at the fact that the conditions were equivalent in Sweden. I was so shocked that there was the same public service and welfare in Sandviken as in Stockholm. I am therefore so concerned about the development that we are seeing, with urbanisation having its effects, with the effects of demographic development and with the large regional disparities that are growing in our country. We have to act. Sten Bergheden said no one has asked for this. But the professions have been calling for this for more than ten years, and the government launched this process, which is a negotiation process between two negotiators and the county councils and municipalities concerned, after we were courted by a united board of Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils who urged the government to address this issue and push through this reform. Then we started the process. We started the process after we had a proper dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting, where they identified the huge challenges we have in the public sector if we are to achieve the objective of equivalence and efficient use of resources. I stand up for this reform. This government stands up for this reform. I, the Government and Parliament, have an obligation towards the Swedish people, and that is to ensure the equivalence and cohesion of our country. This calls for balanced regions that develop healthcare, public transport and growth throughout our country, not just around the big cities. Thank you very much for a very interesting discussion!
i-6289d10808f5b54d-221	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me what measures I intend to take to re-establish basic higher education qualifications at graduations from all national upper secondary education programmes. The government believes that it is very important that all young people should start and complete high school. The unemployment rate of young women and men who have not completed upper secondary education is about twice as high as that of those who have completed such education. In addition, those who do not have completed upper secondary education have a longer way to go in order to acquire qualifications for further studies. It is serious that too many pupils stop their upper secondary education early or stop during their studies. At the same time, the requirements for basic eligibility for higher education have been raised to meet the requirements for a higher education degree in order to ensure better preparation for higher education. A broad range of measures is needed to prevent interruptions and create an attractive upper secondary school for all. For this reason, the government has decided that a special investigator will analyse and propose measures for all young people to start and complete high school and thus also acquire the skills needed to become attractive in the workplace. The investigator's assignment includes analysing and proposing how the student's right to study the courses leading to basic eligibility to the university can be strengthened. In order for all students to be given good opportunities to achieve basic eligibility for the university, regardless of the programme they choose in upper secondary school, different forms of support measures may be needed. The investigator therefore has to review the provisions on support measures in upper secondary school and, if necessary, propose changes in this particular area. It is important for society that there are pupils who choose the upper secondary school's vocational programme, partly because there are parts of the working life that demand this particular labour force, and partly because professional programmes can be a choice that increases students' motivation to complete a secondary school programme. The government will announce in 2016 a series of efforts to improve the quality of vocational education and training. We have appointed 2016 as the year of vocational education and training. In this context, it can be mentioned that in the health and social care sectors, every other employer reports that recruitment problems exist, which is the highest level since measurements started in 2002. While employers are calling for a relatively high-skilled workforce, the number of job seekers with a low level of employment, particularly short-skilled applicants, has increased. This is mainly explained by the fact that more unemployed people were born outside Europe and lack full secondary education. I want higher education qualifications to become part of the professional programmes again, but I want to wait for the investigation's proposals before considering what measures need to be taken to improve the flow of upper secondary school. My ambition is that students from upper secondary school should also have the best possible opportunity to gain access to the university.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-229	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Minister Aida Hadzialic for your answer! As the Government has told us, an investigation is currently under way on this issue. That is also a little bit why I ask the question. I myself sit in the political reference group that receives information about the work of the secondary school inquiry. I know from the past that we have agreed, and that we still agree, between the Left Party and the Social Democracy that the university qualification should be on all programmes at upper secondary school. In the past, about half of upper secondary school pupils attended a vocational preparatory programme. Since the introduction of the new upper secondary school reform in 2011, we see that it is about 30 per cent, one third, of students who attend a vocational programme. When you talk to students who are in ninth grade and are going to choose, you hear that it is a lot about the fact that they are afraid that they will have to spend several years extra on having to study their grades and then, if they want to, apply to college or university. We know that educational background is closely linked to the socio-economic background – the socio-economic background and educational level of one's parents. It'll affect you for the rest of your life. The Left Party wants all students to meet high expectations when they start upper secondary school. History shows that high expectations are an important factor in good results. It is not the only factor, but an important factor. The archaic notion that has justified differences between theoretical and practical professions does not apply to present and future society. Having good language skills and understanding is important for all citizens as citizens of society and working life. There is another reason, apart from the fact that the Gymnasie investigation is ongoing, that I ask the question. I understand that the Government wishes to await the outcome of the investigation before taking a full stand, but I would nevertheless like to make sure that, in the situation where there may be a majority in favour of a different line on the matter, the government is still standing up and is not making compromises. For what would a compromise on such a question be? It would mean that we still do not achieve the goal that we so far agree on between the Social Democrats and the Left Party. I would therefore like to hear how the Minister for High School sees a situation where there is a majority in favour of another line in Parliament. We know in the end that no matter what the investigator proposes, it will be the majority who will decide on the matter. I simply want an answer to this.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-236	Madam President, I would like For me, it is important that we build equal education. Part of the equal education is that all students should be able to assimilate good and proper knowledge and that they should have the opportunity to educate themselves throughout their lives. We know that lifelong learning is extremely important both for the individual and for a labour market that is constantly changing. Then you as an individual must be able to requalify your life through. Then it is extremely important that our professional programmes in high school do not become dead ends and thus less attractive to students, parents, teachers and others. Higher education qualifications are then an important component in increasing attractiveness, although there are many other things that need to be done to ensure that the status of vocational programmes is increased. I maintain that the government's line is that all students should be allowed to take part in higher education qualifications in both the theoretical programmes in upper secondary school and the professional programmes. But we have a parliamentary situation that is complicated. There is no natural majority in Parliament. The majority that we represent together is the largest majority. I believe that the Swedish school would benefit from long-term and stable conditions. If we were to manage, in any way, to get together on how university qualifications could become part of the professional programmes in a wise and compromise way that is good both for the individual and for the school, I would advocate such a line. I still think the important thing is that the school has stability and long-termism and that we always, always have the students' best interests in mind.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-240	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you to the Government! I agree with the Government's vision of building a school and a school policy where there is as much consensus as possible in the Swedish Parliament and the political bodies. So you can simply create peace of mind for the school, the students and the profession without there being too many changes too quickly and too often. At the same time, the situation looks as it does in the Swedish Parliament. We have agreed on various issues on several occasions, but then there have been other agreements with, for example, the alliance parties. Either it compromises its vision or simply does not stand by its opinion on the basis of the parliamentary situation that prevails. I'm thinking it's important what signal we're sending out. It is not just about the decision that will be taken. That is, of course, the most important thing, but it is also important what signal we are sending out. It is then important that Minister Aida Hadzialic sends out the signal that the Social Democracy stands by the line that all students should be eligible for higher education regardless of which high school programme they attend. At the same time, the Swedish people need to know when the Social Democrats can imagine no longer sticking to this view because of the parliamentary situation. I think that sometimes you can even take some losses but keep your vision instead of getting a half-assed solution and selling out half your ideology. In this case, it is a very ideological issue for me. I know that, basically, it has also been for the Social Democracy. What students is this about? Well, it's mainly about working-class youth. It is about young people who do not always have the socio-economic conditions from home to study this quickly and be able to move on. It is about students who will be in vocational programmes and perhaps in the construction sector or other sectors. Therefore, it is particularly important that we from the labour movement's parties – if both of our parties are still included there – send a signal of how much we can envisage compromise. I can tell you here and now that the Left Party will not compromise on university qualifications in professional programmes regardless of the parliamentary situation. Can Minister Aida Hadzialic do the same?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-247	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would really like to emphasise that the government's and the Social Democrats' entry into this issue is that all students, including those who study vocational programmes, should take part in a university qualification so that they can requalify themselves throughout their lives. It's very important. At the same time, we have such a situation in Parliament as I think it is very wise for us to come together on school policy reforms in order to provide school with stable and long-term conditions. We know that the twitchiness that has been in school has been quite destructive. That's what the principals say, that's what the teachers say, that's what the parents say, and that's what the students say. Not least, we also see this in the school results. I do not wish to contribute to such a policy or proposal. I am of the opinion that it is important for politics and political reforms to be real. I am not one who likes placard politics, but I think it is important to have real and meaningful reforms that guarantee good quality in school. I will stick to the entrance that all students should be allowed to take part in the university qualification. But if it is the case that we need to talk to each other both in the Gymnasie investigation and then in the negotiations between the government and opposition parties and to have a dialogue about what we can give and what we can take, I am absolutely in favour of entering into such negotiations, because I think it is important for the Swedish school. I think we have a chance here to come forward with proposals that will give all students university qualifications. But there must be dialogue on this with all parties. This is my entrance.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-250	Madam President, I would like As I see it, the government has a correct and good input into the matter. I hope that the outcome will also be just as good and that we will be here when the proposal comes and can agree even then, not only because it is important in itself that we agree, but mainly for the students who will be affected by this. I very much hope that thought will be given and that the Government and the current government will stick to their line.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-251	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Riazat, who has highlighted an important issue. Once again, I think we fully agree that higher education qualifications need to become part of the professional programmes. We believe in lifelong learning and equality throughout the education chain. Of course, I intend to hold on to that. I hope that the government, together with the Left Party and together with the opposition parties, will be able to find a sustainable and long-term solution to this issue, because I believe that this is what the Swedish school needs and that not least the Swedish labour market needs, given that there are many industries out there that are really screaming to hire students who are skilled in industry, in health care, in health care, in construction, in trade and more. Here we really have an important issue to deal with for the good of Sweden from a welfare perspective and from an economic perspective. This is how we build on the Swedish model.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-253	Madam President, I would like Christina Örnebjär has asked the Minister for Education what he does for young people with intellectual disabilities to have increased opportunities for post-secondary education and how they are paid attention within the framework of work with young people who do not work or study. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. Let me begin by emphasising that I agree with Christina Örnebjär that it is important for young people with intellectual disabilities to have the opportunity for equal education and work in order to make good choices in life. In November 2015, the Government decided on a strategy for young people who are neither working nor studying and also appointed a coordinator (dir. 2015:70) to strengthen the establishment in society and working life of young women and men who are neither working nor studying nor who are at risk of such a situation. When a lot of work for young people with various forms of disabilities takes place within the framework of the coordination associations' activities, these can, for example, apply for the state grant, which also aims to enable collaboration between municipalities, local business and civil society. There is a good system in Sweden today for people with disabilities who study at universities of applied sciences, universities or universities. For example, students in universities of applied sciences can receive special pedagogical support if they need it to be able to complete the education, and at all universities and colleges there are special contact persons and coordinators of pedagogical support for students who encounter or experience disabilities in the study situation. In the case of higher education for the group of people with intellectual disabilities, however, there is no specific vocational or tertiary education. There have been only a few isolated initiatives. Free and voluntary adult education has been a good example by working with the education and training of the target group. Folkbildning has done and continues to make important efforts to enable people, together with others, to increase their knowledge and education, for personal development and participation in society. The Folkbildningsrådet reports that people with different types of disabilities are an important target group and participate in activities organised by both student associations and folkhögskolan. State grants can be applied for for costs of special education support for students with disabilities. Within the general course of folkhögskolan, participants can enter basic eligibility for higher studies. The state supports peoples' education, among other things, with the aim of enabling people to influence their life situation and to close educational gaps in society.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-260	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I lack some answers to the questions what the Government is doing to increase the opportunities for young people with intellectual disabilities in post-secondary education and what the Government is doing to ensure that young people with intellectual disabilities are recognised within the framework of work with young people who are neither working nor studying. The answer is a little more about what there is, not how to think forward. When it comes to work with young people who do not work or study, coordination money is the answer. The Government returns several times to the fact that there is money to apply for, for example, study associations; and it does. There's about $3 million for the whole country. This money will be used to coordinate and map. But where is the money for business? Besides, it's pretty short money. They end in November. Where's the long-term? Starting a business for this target group and knowing that it cannot continue after Christmas is not a good idea. Here we also approach the core of the matter. It's projects on projects – and it's for a group that absolutely shouldn't have temporary solutions. There are a number of projects aimed at the target group intellectually disabled, but there is basically nothing permanent. In theory, there are courses in both folk high school and university of applied sciences and vocational adult education, but in practice very few turn to the target group. Or rather, there are many people's colleges for people with intellectual disabilities, but few marked vocational trainings – and few that can actually be applied for. It was previously a debate with the Committee on Education and Training on adult education, which described precisely the formal possibilities for further studies that exist, but not really what is in practice. That's what we need to look at somewhere. There are no specific vocational training courses for those with intellectual disabilities. There are no adapted educations, but everyone must keep an eye on each individual school. In addition, you basically need to stay in the right place; there is not much north of Gävle, and you are expected to move if you want to go to school. We still see these people with intellectual disabilities as some we can move and put in a group, and there they should live and study, instead of seeing them as individuals with the same right to education as everyone else. We signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2009 and that everyone should have the right to higher education on equal terms and to lifelong learning – without discrimination. None of the programmes in upper secondary school leads to basic higher education qualifications. If you want to go further, it's folk education, university of applied sciences or something like that. Upper secondary school's locking up. Another part of the problem is that the courses are not adapted to the students' conditions. They are designed after students who have attended the usual upper secondary school. There is an interesting project – or rather, there was an interesting project – at the University of Gävle, where they had an education for health inspiration. There students who had attended special upper secondary school were invited to apply for regular, ordinary tertiary education. What they did was adjust and let the training run for four years instead of three. Some elements were also adapted, but otherwise the requirements were the same. The answer from the Government refers precisely to the education of the people and to the folk high schools. I wonder why this particular group should be referred to and why the state does not take the same responsibility there for further education as it does for other and higher education. My question is still what the Government is doing to ensure that Sweden complies with the UN Convention on Access to Higher General Education and Lifelong Learning on the same terms as others. What does the Government do to ensure that good examples that have been run in project form do not end when the project is finished, but instead permanent?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-267	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that when we started working at the Ministry of Education, I and my colleagues started all the work to review the strategies, the projects that were in progress and the reforms that were in progress. We found that there was no survey of how young people who do not work or study have it. What puts them in that situation? What causes some youths to have less faith in the future than others? In particular, there was a lack of both a strategy and reforms to bring this work forward. This led us to start over from the beginning, and that is why we have now appointed a coordinator to develop a strategy for how young people who neither work nor study will get better chances of life. We have also started with a survey to see what the situation is really like out there, because such a survey has not existed before. I would argue that the raising of knowledge and the expansion of both adult education and the university of applied sciences and, of course, adult education are crucial for us to build an equal education and for all students and young people to have a belief in the future. In recent years we have seen that a bourgeois policy has been pursued where adult education has been cut down. Folkbildning has not been given the resources it has needed to offer all young people, and indeed all individuals throughout their lives, a chance of education. This government wants to change that. We believe that education is the way forward to lift the individual, but it is also extremely important for our society and the Swedish model. That is why we are expanding adult education. We are expanding public education and the university of applied sciences, where the student who wants to be trained can go to be Employable. We also do this in order for all individuals regardless of their circumstances to have the opportunity to both education and education and to have a meaningful approach to life. I think this is very important also for individuals and young people with intellectual disabilities.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-271	Madam President, I would like Mapping and coordination is great. It's great to look at that part. However, the risk is that this group will be lost anyway, because many of them actually go to secondary school, and that is above all the step behind what we are calling for. It concerns the lock-in of secondary school. In fact, this is what it looks like today: If you go to upper secondary school, you won't be able to get on with it if you don't go through folk education. Then, as I said, it is their responsibility. We do not take the same responsibility for all young people. We say that some do not need to have a state or municipal education. Since municipalities took over responsibility for special education in the 1990s, the number of pupils has basically doubled. What the reasons for that increase are, I'm sure we can divide if some other time, but that's what it looks like. We have never had so many children in upper secondary school or primary school. What we sometimes tend to forget is that this is not a homogeneous group. They are individuals with an intellectual disability, and they are all different and have different needs. In the answer, the Government mentions the important role of public education, which I fully agree with, and that it is possible to apply for a grant – But again, where is the money for the business? I take an example that I have also included in the interpellation, namely SV Kulturcollege i Örebro, which has had an activity where young people have had to be prepared for studies and for work. It's worked very well. Everyone thinks the project is very good, but now there is no funding and you have to stop. Instead, why not persevere and expand when we see that something works? The same applies to the project that was at the University of Gävle. Instead of letting these good examples disappear, why not permanent ones? Folk high schools with a labour market focus for this target group are more or less non-existent. There are a few individuals who have an internship for a few weeks here and there. In addition, they are geographically rather unfortunately located; most are located in the southern part, and north of Gävle, as I said, is quite difficult. They also find it difficult to get a place in general education that can offer support, because they are fighting with everyone else who is also going into those places. This general entry does not automatically mean that they get permission with the background they have. In addition, it is therefore not adapted pedagogy. I could tell you everything the Alliance did during the eight years we were in government. A lot happened for this group. We reformed the entire upper secondary school – I think we can change the name of it – and it's a little too early to evaluate it, because it started in 2013. So it will be very exciting to follow. We set clearer targets for upper secondary school – it will prepare for further studies and not just as before for further learning. There was more flexibility – if you wanted to study some upper secondary courses you could do so. We also instructed the Swedish Agency for Higher Education to increase accessibility for people with disabilities, including intellectuals. That's where it's gone, because that's not true-- it's not really there. A quota was introduced for universities of applied sciences to validate knowledge instead of simply entering formal qualifications from upper secondary school, i.e. also taking them in from upper secondary school. We introduced an opportunity for increased state grants for special educational support, which the Government mentions. The profession opened up for upper secondary school. The bottom line, as I see it, is that during our time in the alliance government we made sure to open up a lot of formal possibilities. Now that they have been around for a few years, we see that formal opportunities are not enough. It is not enough to give universities of applied sciences the right to open up their courses, but concrete orders are needed. The same may be true of folk high school, and why not study associations. So my question remains. What will the Government and this government do to ensure that young people with intellectual disabilities have the same opportunities and life chances as everyone else?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-280	Madam President, I would like First of all, I agree with Christina Örnebjär that perhaps the name should be changed, and believe me that I am looking at it right now. I have received that point of view many times and have reflected on it myself quite often. Secondly, I agree that our education system is full of dead ends. During a previous interpellation debate here we talked about that the professional programmes have unfortunately become a dead end. We know that the lack of capacity in adult education, universities of applied sciences and adult education means that these too are dead ends, which means that many young people who want to take on such education and training do not have the opportunity because the activities have been underfunded. Here I believe a lot in general investments – welfare expansion. That's how we built this country strong. This is how we build on the Swedish model: through general investments that are for everyone. When adult education, university of applied sciences and adult education have the capacity to receive all students, we know that it will also benefit the category of students we are talking about. And we know that, above all, peoples' education is an important opportunity for them to further educate themselves, to gain new comradeship and knowledge that is extremely valuable to themselves and to society at large. I would really like to emphasise that it is the Kfskapsliftet which is the important part of this. It is about the activities being able to expand and receive more students, and peoples' education has been specifically given increased resources, both study associations and folk high schools. I think that this will allow more students to study further and that it will awaken confidence in the future of all students who want to take part in this in general terms but also for the specific group of students with intellectual disabilities.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-285	Mr President, I would like to Everyone, regardless of their place of residence and age, should have the right to read in komvux, the government proposed in the 2016 budget. I will quote the Prime Minister, because I think what she said was good: this is a reform of a historical nature. This means that no matter where you live or what age you have, you should be able to complete upper secondary school or read your eligibility to the university. I was happy about those words. I just wish that what has been said was true for everyone, because we know that it is not today. The problem is that since it should be equal for everyone it is not suitable for everyone. There must be adapted training courses or the possibility to adapt training courses. I had a student once when I substituteed--I'm a regular teacher basically, but I was in an elementary school-- who said: Everyone asks what my little brother wants to be, but there's never anyone asking me what I want to be. Is it because I'm already something? Is it because I'm retarded? And I don't want to be, because it's not me. I want to be something, too. That took me pretty hard. We are all something already, but everyone should also have the opportunity to become what they want to be. I would like to send a few things along the way with the Government and on which we might perhaps agree, namely to hand over a mission to the Folkbildningsrådet, for example, to strengthen civil society even more through various initiatives. The Folkbildningsrådet points to the great need to develop new teaching methods within folkhögskolan, and it can certainly be broadened to other folkbildningarna. I would also like to see the projects that have existed. They can certainly revive, even if they are already closed, and make sure that they have a long-term perspective in them. The clever thing about the Adult School's SV Kulturcollege, for example, is that it is a model that can be used for others, such as newly arrived and school-tired. I really believe that this is something that we need to take seriously, because it is about prejudice, about expectations and about people with intellectual disabilities having the opportunity to make active choices and have power over their own everyday lives.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-292	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, once again, Christina Örnebjär! I notice you're passionate about this issue, and I'm happy to see that it really shines in your eyes when you talk about this. Thanks for the tapes! I promise to take them to heart and I am happy to continue this dialogue. I believe that we can find something sensible in the government's general approach to opening up the dead ends within the education system within the framework of the knowledge boost. But I am also happy to look at the specific efforts that you are talking about to ensure that all students really have the opportunity for lifelong learning, especially for the category of students that is particularly vulnerable in many cases. For me, it is important for all students to have equal opportunities, because it is the basic idea of a more equal education and a more equal school.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-294	Mr President, I would like to Caroline Helmersson Olsson has asked me what initiatives I intend to take in view of the concerns about the future of nature-based schools that exist throughout the country. Let me first give a brief background to the work that the Swedish National Agency for Education is currently doing on the secondary school's conservation programme. In order to safeguard national skills supply, reduce youth unemployment and facilitate the transition from school to work, the former government commissioned a special investigator to investigate, among other things, the dimension of upper secondary vocational education and training. The investigator would, among other things, make proposals aimed at avoiding skills shortages and reducing the risk of over-training in professions with weak labour market demand. The investigator was also asked to analyse whether there is a need to make minor adjustments to the national range of orientations and national programmes (dir. 2014:50). The Government decided by means of additional directives to the investigation ( Dir. 2015:15) that it would propose the adjustments to the national range of orientations in upper secondary vocational education and training that are deemed to be most urgent. In its interim report A professional orientation within the technology programme(SOU 2015:29), the study presented proposals for adjustments to the nature conservation programme. The study considered that the programme's orientations were unclear, that there were problems as to which courses may be offered in the programme deepening and that there was a risk of financial overcompensation for certain training courses. In response to the investigation's proposal, the Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to propose, on the basis of the investigation's proposals for new specialisations in the nature conservation programme, how many high school credits the new specialisations should include and the degree goals of the programme. The Swedish National Agency for Education must present the assignment no later than 29 April 2016. The question of possible changes to the programme will then be prepared in the usual order within the Government Office. The report of the study shows that a starting point for the changes that may be made should be to ensure that all the specialisations are given the professional character to which the degree goals relate. Another point of departure should be that the principals providing certain agricultural trainings should not be overcompensated for their costs. However, I do not want to anticipate the work of the National Agency for Education on this issue in this House. The government will take a position on the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposals once the agency has reported them.
i-3sRJd9BkfydEHav1giDBF2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think that the government, and not least Minister Aida Hadzialic, has good and high ambitions in terms of boosting vocational training and its attractiveness and quality. Among other things, the Minister has worked for 2016 to be the year of vocational education and training and intends to move forward with more measures to increase the attractiveness of vocational programmes. The reason why I asked the question about the future of the Swedish National Board of Education's very far-reaching proposals for amendments has raised great concern in the country among schools, universities and industries. Few consultation bodies have been consulted, and they have had very little time. It is also proposed to enter into force on 1 July this year. The consequences are quite difficult to understand, and the students have already chosen programs. Of course, I have the deepest respect that the Minister cannot anticipate the process, but I am pleased that the Minister has clarified the process in his response. The government owns the question, and that makes me safe, of course. However, it is perceived in the referral that the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal does not harmonise with other proposals that the government has, with strategies, investigations and other initiatives. I am thinking of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, the Food Strategy, which is on the way and not least the ongoing High School inquiry, in which I myself sit in the reference group. In addition, the Prime Minister said in his 2015 Government Declaration that Sweden's potential as a tourist nation with a focus on nature and ecotourism must be taken into account. How does the Government view the potential, development and supply of skills in this area?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-303	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson again for a good question. The views that have emerged around the country on the future of the Swedish National Agency for Agricultural Sciences are the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposals, and it will now be returned to the government. However, I would like to assure everyone that the government's line is to strengthen the professional programmes, including the Natural Agricultural Upper Secondary School. Speaking of the issue, I believe that the agricultural upper secondary schools are an important part of the whole country's life and that the whole country will have a good supply of skills. Many of the fields of activity provided by the Natural Agricultural Upper Secondary School are basic parts of the Swedish export industry. It is extremely important for the Swedish economy, for the financing of Swedish welfare and for the construction of the Swedish model. We need to see the whole chain and how it's connected. I see that a lot starts with the high schools of nature and that they are attractive, that their status is raised and that more students see that they can have a good future by choosing these courses. This, of course, is an approach that I will take care of and ensure that the government continues.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-308	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. A clear majority of all those involved in the design of nature programmes, the industries, schools and universities, agree that there should be the opportunity to study further and take courses in higher education at SLU, Sweden's University of Agricultural Sciences. The proposed amendment makes this difficult. In my opinion, this must be made possible and improved when we need applied competence at universities and later in the academic profession. It is important that the text of the current degree goals is retained: Students should also be given the opportunity to study courses that prepare for higher education in the field of natural sciences, mainly related to natural use. 20% of students today move on to higher education. SLU wants these students. I assume that the Minister will agree with me when she has commissioned the Gymnasie investigation to review this and also look at specific competences. How does the Minister view strengthening the bridge between academia and practice? The issue of financial overcompensation for certain training courses is, of course, a very important one. Investigations have shown that. In the long term it will certainly be self-answered, because rogue education does not live on. But you may have to do something now, and as I understand, the National Board of Education has some suggestions that have been well received. Among other things, it is a question of sharing animal husbandry, because that is especially where it is a matter of concern. There have also been proposals from the consultative bodies. Among other things, the National Agency for Education could carry out a deeper quality review, and national programme councils could be strengthened and developed. Several consultation bodies have also proposed a new approach, nature tourism, with its own price list. I think it sounds very interesting given Sweden's great potential in the area. The tourism industry is a basic industry in Sweden. Does the Minister agree that this is interesting to proceed with?
i-6289d10808f5b54d-318	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree with Caroline Helmersson Olsson in her description and analysis. It is extremely important that vocational programmes as a whole, including upper secondary schools for nature conservation, are linked to working life and the needs of the labour market. In this way, we ensure that students become attractive in the labour market and that the labour market is provided with the skills it needs. An important part of this is that vocational programme students also get higher education qualifications so that they can manage on the advanced Swedish labour market and also be able to requalify themselves throughout life. With a global economy that is constantly changing, we must also have an education system that reflects it. This is important for all students regardless of which program they go. I know that Caroline Helmersson Olsson is actively working on this issue within the framework of the Gymnasie inquiry. With regard to the second issue, we have seen that some training courses have been overcompensated and received more money than they would have received based on the quality of activity they have delivered. This is something the government wants to get to, so an investigation was set up. Basically, this problem is that we have had and have a profit hunt in schools and other welfare. That's what the government wants to stop. We want tax money to be used properly and Sweden's schools and students to get the quality they deserve. It is, of course, our common means that are being used. We need to get to grips with this properly in both school and other welfare. Caroline Helmersson Olsson mentions the importance of professional programmes with different specialisations as an opportunity for the tourism industry. I agree with that, too. The Minister of Economic Affairs usually describes the tourism industry as part of the Swedish basic industry because it is an important and growing part of our economy. This needs to be linked to a good supply of skills from our schools and education system. From all of these perspectives, I see that the professional programmes with, among other things, the upper secondary schools of nature are important for students to be employable and to be able to go out to work, for the labour market and business to get the skills they need and for us to be able to build on the Swedish model.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-325	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government. I didn't expect any other answers. I feel that Aida Hadzialic is well aware of the issues and will continue to work on strengthening the professional programmes in their entirety and the natural-use upper secondary schools, which we are talking about today. The issues we are talking about today concern 1 250 pupils in 55 schools in the country. They also affect the coming students, whom I hope will be many more. I thank the Minister for the debate and wish him every success.
i-6289d10808f5b54d-328	Mr President, I would like to Again, I thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson for the question. It is important that we discuss the prerequisites of agricultural upper secondary schools and how we can strengthen professional programmes in general. This is particularly true in 2016 which is the year of vocational education and training. Then we need to gather in different ways to increase the attractiveness and status of these programmes.
