i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-6	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund has asked the Minister for Public Health, Health and Sport Gabriel Wikström when he intends to heed Parliament's call to return with proposals for more sports hours in school. The question has been submitted to me for an answer. As I made clear earlier, including when I answered similar questions from party colleagues to Saila Quicklund, I agree that it is important that children and young people are given good opportunities for physical activity and that it is important to counteract sedentary behaviour among children. This is also of great importance for students to gain good knowledge. In this context, I would like to highlight in particular what is stated in the curriculum for comprehensive school, that the school should strive to offer all pupils daily physical activity within the framework of the entire school day. When the National Board of Education presented its work in supporting schools' development of the subject of sport and health, the Authority pointed out that this assignment in the curriculum is an important health issue and an area that needs more attention. Movement should be a natural part of the school day. This requires physical activity and motor training in addition to the subject of sport and health. Simply extending teaching time in sports and health is a very comprehensive reform that risks missing the goal. Another way that the government is considering further investigation is to clarify and strengthen the school's mission to offer all pupils daily physical activity within the framework of the entire school day. The Government took the initiative to invest SEK 200 million in 2016 in developing and strengthening pupil health, which according to the School Act will work to promote health and support students' development towards the goals of the education. We have proposed that SEK 200 million will also be allocated for 2017 and that the same amount will be calculated annually from 2018. The Government has also highlighted in particular the issue of pupils' relatively large absenteeism on the subject of sport and health in the directives of the special investigator, who will now report in December a study on pupils' problematic absenteeism. The Government has also commissioned the Centre for Sport Research at the School of Sport and Sports to carry out an in-depth analysis of the sports movement's children's and young people's activities as well as the primary school's work with daily physical activity and teaching on the subject of sport and health. The analysis should focus primarily on children and young people who are not physically active and highlight methods and practices that lead to more children and young people playing sports or otherwise being physically active. I have noted in the past that the issue of the importance of girls and boys moving is broader than school sports. The sports movement has an important role to play by laying a foundation for future exercise habits in children's and young people's sports. The Government strives to give more children and young people the opportunity to participate in sports associations' activities and therefore increased support for sport by SEK 197 million in 2016. We now propose in our budget proposal that the support increase by an additional SEK 11 million for 2017 and from 2018 onwards by SEK 19 million in addition, to a total lasting increase of SEK 227 million per year compared to 2015. In August, the Ministry of Education referred a memo including proposals for a stadium-based hourly plan in comprehensive school. The proposal is expected to lead to a more equal school and to make it easier for individual pupils to change school if they want to and for the principals to ensure that pupils receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag in 2017 with a proposal for a staged hourly plan.
i-EDrkaEiuh9Sk7wdoNKC4GJ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. So my question to the Government was: When do the Minister and the Government intend to heed Parliament's call to return with proposals for more sports hours in school? It is also an announcement that underpins the issue. I'm not getting an answer in the interpellation response from the government. Perhaps it will come out during the debate – we will see. Furthermore, the Government says that he agrees that it is important for children and young people to be given good opportunities for physical activity, that it is important to counteract sedentary behaviour among children and that it is also of great importance for students to gain good knowledge, which is quite right. That's where we're in complete agreement. However, Mr President, the Government is not showing this in active action, because it chose to actively vote 'no' here in Parliament for more hours in sports and health, which surprises me greatly in view of the major public health challenges we face in society. The Minister also points out that the primary school curriculum states that the school should strive to offer all pupils daily physical activity throughout the school day. We know that this clearly does not work. My question is therefore: what action does the Minister intend to take to make this, which is so important, work? In the answer, the Minister says, "Extremely increasing teaching time in sports and health is a very comprehensive reform that risks missing the goal." I wonder, then, whether the government is backing up because it is a major and far-reaching reform. There are other reforms that the government now wants to implement, such as the so-called regional reform, which is much larger than this one. The fact that we are not going to introduce more sports hours in school because it is a major and far-reaching reform can make me feel a little strange. What is meant by the fact that there is a very wide-ranging reform that risks missing the target? The government is adding 200 million to school health care, which is good. So do the Moderates in their budget. It is right to do so, but prevention is also important. The school health care usually meets the students when problems have already arisen, so the combination is important there. The Minister says:.I have previously noted that the issue of the importance of girls and boys moving is wider than school sports. Yes, that is quite right too. But school sports are very important. What the sports movement performs every day is fantastic, but as a complement we need to increase school sports hours. The Moderates have a proposal for Fritis sport to combine 100 more hours of sports in primary school with fritis sport to reach pupils who do not have culture with them or economic opportunities to participate in a sports association. My question to the Minister is: why does the Minister not want to invest – I call it an investment – in the well-being and success of our children and students in school?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-20	Mr President, I would like to I think we share the interest in ensuring that you get better results in Swedish schools, and we are very much in agreement that we want the results to be better. We know that there are different groups that lag behind for different reasons. For example, boys perform worse than girls. We also have a big challenge with many students with neuropsychiatric disabilities, type adhd, who also have problems in school. There is quite a lot of research into different methods that shows that more physical activity gives better results. The so-called Bunkeflo method has shown that it is possible not least to increase the percentage of qualified persons to upper secondary school. It also shows very clearly that the group of boys performs significantly better in school with this method. There is research in the United States, including Michigan, that clearly shows that children who have adhd improve their ability to concentrate and their social ability if they are able to move. This means that there is scientific support that more movement in school leads to that not least boys and children with adhd, which we find difficult to meet in Swedish school today, manage the school better. I therefore find it incomprehensible that the government chooses not to follow the announcement that exists about more sport. The interpellation response states that consideration is given to further exploring how to strengthen the school's mission to offer daily physical activity within the school day. Expression in such vague terms shows that the government does not consider this to be very urgent. In this House, there is a majority in favour of introducing more sport into school. Why doesn't the government care?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-25	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is a very interesting issue that Mrs Saila raises in the debate, but I think it is a bit the wrong way forward. We agree that physical activity provides better opportunities for learning. But we need to look at society as a whole. We have a sports movement that needs more active members in all sports. Is it possible to combine this with the needs of the sports movement? If you are a member of a sports association, you also learn democracy, which is good for the school. How can we get a conception between school and sports movement so that children and young people get more insight into what sports exist and what opportunities there are for sports? In addition, more and more sports clubs have fewer and fewer members. With more members, the quality can be higher, and we may have greater sports successes. Getting better results, however, is a secondary matter. The main question is how we get more young people to actively engage in sports more, move more and get more physical activity. Most of those who have ever been members of a sports association have become active after school. They have been more physically active after they have graduated from primary and secondary school. It has another effect later in working life: if people are used to physical activity and to sports, we may get better productivity in the country. We have everything to gain from looking at how schools and sports can work together in this area. Just saying that we have to introduce another sporting hour is a slightly wrong way of looking at it. We need to look at whether sports movement and school can help each other, and I hope we can work in that direction.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-31	Mr President, I would like to I thank all the debaters. This is an important interpellation, and we fully agree that children need to move and that children who are allowed to move are able to get better results in school. We know this because it is clearly documented in the research, and so we agree that more movement is needed in and outside the school. Student health will work more preventively. One of the reasons why we make these investments is that student health should get into an earlier stage. We need to improve the quality of education in sport and health. It is part of the aforementioned assignment to the School of Gymnastics and Sport to see how this work is done now. We also point out in particular the absence on this subject and how to ensure that all pupils participate in teaching on this subject. I say in the interpellation response that there is a risk that only an increase in the number of hours will miss the target. I would point out that the goal is for children to move more. That is what we want to achieve because we know that children who move more also have the opportunity for better knowledge. There are some reasons why only an increase in the number of hours can miss the target. Firstly, it is precisely the problem of presence. Some of the children who need it most today do not go sufficiently through these hours. This does not change because the hours increase. Secondly, sport and health is a subject with a curriculum and knowledge requirements, both theoretical knowledge requirements and knowledge requirements that you need physical movement to achieve. This means that an increased number of hours do not need to be organised in such a way that you get more movement. It can mean more theoretical teaching on the subject of sport and health. It can have benefits, because the theoretical knowledge involved in sport and health is important. But that is not what we wanted to achieve, but we wanted to make children move more. Thirdly, it has not escaped anyone that we are facing a great and serious shortage of teachers. Increasing the total number of hours in the school's hour plan means that a certain number of teachers will work more. In principle, all teachers in sport and health are also teachers of more subjects. This means that we have a greater shortage of teachers, and of course we have to take that into account when making the decision. Are there other ways that more effectively reach the goal of children moving more? I think so. We need more movement that is not based on the children's first change, then have a physical activity and then change again. We need more movement that does not assume that the children will be judged on the basis of the knowledge requirement, but that the children should move around for the benefits that exist in the movement itself, also for learning in other subjects. The Bunkeflo model is largely based on this. As I say in the interpellation response, we are therefore looking at whether we can strengthen the wording in the curriculum of providing daily physical activity, because, as I have said, this is not being sufficiently achieved today. Therefore, this evaluation is located at the School of Gymnastics and Sport. It's not vaguely worded. The assignment is at the School of Gymnastics and Sport, and we're looking at whether we're going to strengthen the curriculum. As Mr Jasenko said, it is important for children to move even when they are not in school. To achieve this, the investments we make in the sports movement are important. Not least to bring in the children where the wallet has been an obstacle to entering the sports movement. The sports movement has and takes a great responsibility to reach also those children who have weak economic conditions. It is important that all children feel that they can get involved in the sports movement. That is one of the reasons why the government is adding money to the sports movement.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-43	Mr President, I would like to Mr Jasenko highlights the sports movement, and as a spokesperson for sport policy, I can only agree with the important importance of sport and the fantastic work done by our sports associations. But it is not black or white, and for the rest the Moderates spend 55 million more than the government on just the grant Sports. That it is important with the combination of school and sports movement I highlighted in my previous post. The government stresses the importance of sport unilaterally, but, as I said, I would like to see a combination. We have considered that research results show that physical activity has an impact on children's performance in school. A good example is the Bunkeflo project. It is a collaborative project between school, sports association and research. In the student group with more physical activity, 96 per cent reached upper secondary school eligibility. In the group that received less exercise, 86 per cent reached eligibility, i.e. 10 percentage points less. The Moderates want more students to feel better and learn more in school. In our plan for a modern knowledge school, it is therefore also important and of course to invest in more teaching time in primary school, more math in secondary school, better paid teachers and more sports in school. Research has shown that movement and sport are closely linked to students' well-being and learning in school. According to an international comparison, other countries' primary school pupils receive considerably more sports hours than the Swedish students. Most sporting hours are given to French students, who have a full 108 hours of school sports per school year in primary school. Sweden has 56, so there are very big differences. This means that only seven nations have less sport in school than we have in Sweden. We Moderates want to change this. Together with the Alliance, we are therefore working together, with a majority in the Swedish Parliament, to increase the number of hours in sport and health from 500 to 600 hours. When Parliament voted in this Chamber last spring on the 20% increase in school sports that this would bring, the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party unimaginably voted 'no'. If the Minister can now agree that it is important to have children's physical activity and so on, why does he not want to invest in the well-being and success of our children and students in school?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-51	Mr President, I would like to I think that the argument that major reforms should not be pursued is a little strange. This is a reform that has a good research base that shows that it really improves students' performance. What is interesting about the Bunkeflo model is that the presence in sports classes increased. So they had more sports lessons but also a much higher presence. I think it is important to include this in this context, because the Government talked about the presence and that it would lead to a missed target if the number of sports lessons were increased. I cannot see that the government has any concrete proposals at all to increase the movement in school. To consider investigating something is hardly a powerful measure. It is not very concrete or something that has an effect in schools. Students in Swedish schools have very little teaching time in most subjects. We have a shortage of teachers, and it is clear that it is always possible to refer to it if we want to avoid making important reforms. We need more teaching time, no matter what subject we are talking about. This can be solved in many other ways. One example is teaching assistants, and another is to ensure that schools are given greater freedom to organize. I introduced the Rector of Forgotten School to the Council of State. That school has a different organization where teachers are relieved, and then they also teach more. I think that is something to bring with us in the future – that we need to review the organisation and how we use the teachers in place. I would like to return to the substantive question: does the government intend to completely ignore the announcement that has come from the Riksdag? There is a majority here in Parliament to increase the number of sports hours because we believe that this will lead to better results for the students. Will the government continue to ignore the announcement?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-57	Mr President, I would like to It is important to emphasise that there is one fundamental point on which we agree in this debate, namely that we want children and young people to have more physical activity, both in school and outside school. It helps children to achieve better results in school. It is important to say that we agree on this. Then it is about the approach we choose to achieve it. I mentioned the sports movement and that, when it comes to the health perspective, they are very good in terms of diet. Everyone who is a member of a sports association brings this along, and that is why I think it should be possible for the school to cooperate more with the sports movement so that more people can take part in this. I must emphasise once again that an association is a democracy school for many young people. An association provides the opportunity to broaden acquaintances, gain greater insight into how people live and meet across borders that can be built into residential areas. It is therefore very important that we give the school and the sports movement a chance to meet on this issue.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-60	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the interpeller and the other debaters once again. We invest in children's health and movement and thus in children's school results, we invest in the sports movement and we invest in student health. These investments have increased since the last moderate-led government, where we can now agree – great! We have commissioned the Centre for Sport Research at the School of Gymnastics and Sport to look at the quality of sport and health and how daily physical activity is followed up. We have done this, of course, because we want all children to move every day, because we know that it has good effects. These are not vague wordings, but they are what we have already done. Now we are considering whether we can tighten up the current curriculum which will allow children to move more. That is what we want to achieve – that is our common goal. Having said that, Mr President, I think it is important that we stop the shortage of teachers. Moderates' demands for more hours in school are more valid than this. They have a fairly long list of hours that always sound good when it comes up to the debate, but then it should become a reality. Someone should take these hours and make sure that they are filled with quality for the students. It is hours of good quality, where you can build a good knowledge relationship between the teacher and the student, which leads to learning. I have noted that, despite the lack of teachers, it is unclear in the Moderate Budget Movement whether they support the expansion of teacher training. We need more teachers if we are to face the lack of teachers we already have, and then the Moderates have a long list of more hours to be completed. Maria Stockhaus gave a clear answer in the debate: it will be solved by teaching more the existing teachers. I also think that teaching assistants are good and that there are more people who work at school and can relieve the teachers. But I wonder if the most important thing is that each teacher has more teaching hours or whether it is that they have the opportunity to create more quality in the hours they have and not every time have to finish the lesson a minute too early to run in the corridor to the next lesson. Instead, they can have the opportunity to take that extra conversation with a student who needs it – perhaps the very student who is absent from the lesson in sports and health – and prepare the lessons they should have and do something on those who really reach out to all students and create the quality that is so important in the teaching situation. I am not sure that there are more teaching hours for each individual teacher that will allow us to achieve better results and quality. We see countries in the world that actually have fewer hours of teaching than we do but that have a higher status for teachers and thus better school results. That is why my priority is as it is. I think that in this case it is better to work to get a daily physical movement for all children rather than more hours that leads to the existing teachers having to work more without us knowing that it leads to daily movement for the students. I was asked about the announcement that has been made. Of course, we take the announcement seriously. We listen to the arguments – we meet and discuss them now – and we prepare this in connection with the new stage-based hour plan for comprehensive school, where we have landed on the government's conclusion based on Parliament's announcement. It is out for consultation, and we will get the referrals and prepare them in the usual order. I am convinced that several of the referees will address the question of how many hours we should have in sports and health. Once this is done, we will submit a product and a legislative proposal to the Swedish Parliament for consideration here. We take the announcement very seriously, and from it the government forms its opinion.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-69	Mr President, I would like to I choose to highlight the public health perspective in this discussion. The World Health Organization has pointed out that today more people die from obesity than from starvation and malnutrition. In Sweden approximately 800 000 people are estimated to suffer from obesity. Nearly a quarter of all ten - year - olds are overweight. The Diabetes Association usually says that about 450 000 people in Sweden have diabetes and that 7 000 – 8 000 of the 50 000 who have type 1 diabetes are children. The number of children with type 1 diabetes has doubled since the 1990s. These are serious numbers. Some 1 million Swedes of working age are affected by some form of mental illness, and close to one in two will be affected by this at some point in their lives. The costs of mental illness in Sweden are estimated at approximately SEK 70 billion per year – 2 per cent of GDP. Mental illness is the most common cause of sick leave in Sweden. This is important to take into account in this discussion, and the school continues to be an important arena for public health in the country. Finally, I would like to say that I still have no clear answer to the question I put to the Government. Why I don't get it, I don't know. But I will of course follow this discussion, and I am sure we will meet in some context. There is an announcement on the basis of this, and it is important that there is a response back.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-74	Mr President, I would like to In the next year, the government's proposal for a staged hourly plan will also be the government's response to the announcement that has been made in the form of requests for more hours on different subjects. There will therefore be a clear answer to the announcement made by the Riksdag. I think it's very good and important that Saila Quicklund concludes by showing the link between physical activity – it's important to have more and daily physical activity and that all children move – and the increasing mental illness. Here it is absolutely crucial that we have both what we talk about as daily physical activity and a strong pupil health at school. It is important to stress that we have now come to an agreement on investments in student health that will enable us to expand it and work much more proactively to reach the very children we are talking about. These are children whom we are likely to see having higher absenteeism from sports and health classes today. With the right efforts, they can start attending sports and health classes and fulfil their schooling requirements. There they can receive such an education that actually starts to move and perhaps also gets daily movement outside the classes in sports and health, movement that is not linked precisely to the knowledge requirements on that subject but which is there because this has such public health benefits and gains for the results of knowledge. I thank you for this interpellation debate, and I am also convinced that we will meet again on these issues.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-78	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked the Minister for Children, the Elderly and Gender Equality if she and the Government intend to take any initiatives for a review of current beach protection legislation to facilitate the construction of more housing. He has also asked whether she intends to take any measures to achieve a more restrictive use of the 300-metre rule in the beach protection. This is not a children's issue, it is not an elderly issue, nor is it a gender equality issue, and the work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The beach protection comes back in several questions and debates, and I replied only yesterday to two written questions about the beach protection from Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng's party colleagues Åsa Coenraads (Question 2016/ 17:111) and Lars Hjälmered(Question 2016/ 17:163). As I stated in my answer to those questions, the government has wanted to await the outcome of the changes to the beach protection rules decided by the Alliance Government – including the 2009 rules on coastal rural development areas – before any further changes are made. The government now believes that it is time to review the rules on rural development areas in coastal locations – the so-called LIS rules. This is part of the government's active work for more housing throughout the country. We want to see a vibrant countryside that can be developed, while preserving an attractive landscape and protecting valuable natural environments, and consider that there is potential to develop the LIS instrument for that purpose. It's a little bit like the way brokers use the word potential when they talk about the potential for renovation in terms of checkers. The Government has therefore announced in the budget proposal for 2017 that there will be a review of the LIS rules. The aim of the review shall be to further promote rural development in areas with good access to beaches without harming the long-term values that the protection of the beach is aimed at protecting. As Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng describes in his interpellation, the county administrative boards may, under certain conditions, decide to extend a beach protection area to up to 300 metres from the shoreline. The 2009 amendment to the beach protection rules tightened the requirement to extend a beach protection area. Enlargement may then take place only if it is necessary to ensure one of the objectives of beach protection. The intention is for there to be a clear and long-term need for extended beach protection. In connection with the change, the county administrative boards were tasked with reviewing and taking new decisions on extended coastal protection areas in their own county in order to better adapt them to the two objectives of beach protection. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis of the results of the review, the total area of extended beach protection for the country as a whole decreased. Against this background, the Government does not currently intend to review the possibility for county administrative boards under the current right to extend the beach protection in an area beyond 100 metres if necessary to ensure any of the purposes of beach protection.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-84	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. The background to this interpellation is that I clearly see that many municipalities have significant difficulties in getting new building plans both for housing and for businesses. This is due to several factors, both that Sweden has many national interests overall and that the beach protection boundaries are of great importance. Over 55 per cent of the country is of some kind of national interest, and there are municipalities where 80 per cent are of national interest. In addition, in many places, including in West Sweden from which I come, we are now in practice introducing a general beach protection limit of 300 metres. This line was, as you know, in many places earlier 100 meters. When the state now sees that we need to increase housing construction and that it is a very important part of Sweden's future, this does not actually go together with all the restrictions that we have in Sweden. The aim is to build 700,000 real estate units. Down in Västra Götaland is the pitch 80 000 – 100 000 apartments or houses. But this is actually not possible with the current regulatory mass. The most ironic thing about this issue is that the government's extended arm the county administrative board should monitor all restrictions and national interests and also get the municipalities to build more. It has been given a fairly strong mandate to do this. My questions to the Government are therefore: Does the Government intend to work to ensure that the Government makes proposals for review, changes and reliefs within national interests and shore protection limits? We must not forget that, about a year ago, a parliamentary majority made an announcement on this. Will the Government take any further steps to soften the 300-metre limit? At least some county boards have interpreted the law as existing.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-91	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for giving me the answer in this House. The Minister mentions LIS areas and the review the Government intends to do. That is good, and my hope is that it will be adapted to the need for the whole of Sweden to live. It's about trying to make things easier – but with environmental considerations. The aim of the beach protection is, as the Minister described, to ensure the conditions for public outdoor life and to maintain good living conditions for animal and plant life. It is important to have clear rules for the development of densely populated areas, and it is of course important to ensure that the country's coastal environments are not overexploited. But only 10 per cent of Sweden's beaches are affected by settlements today. In rural areas, such as large parts of Södermanland, which is the area I know best, a country-wide and strict beach protection becomes a concern for many municipalities. It is a dead hand over the development of certain municipalities, over the tourism industry and, not least, on the possibility of increasing the attraction and new migration, which many of the municipalities need. For example, I want to mention the archipelago municipality Oxelösund, which has the seventh smallest municipality area in Sweden and mostly consists of water. How can construction take place there when the beach shelter is 300 meters and the municipality wants to have more inhabitants? If the beach shelter had been 100 meters, the construction problem would have been considerably smaller. In addition, I am thinking of the fact that the whole of Sweden will live and the gap that is actually there. One way to narrow that gap can be to make it easier for near-shore settlements – but with very great environmental considerations. As the Minister said, the Alliance Government gave municipalities greater power over the decision-making process by allowing derogations from beach protection for rural development measures. All these measures are important to facilitate this, and they are relevant steps in the right direction. However, I believe that legislation should give more freedom to the municipalities. The municipal authorities often have unique knowledge of their municipalities. All too often the decisions of municipalities are reviewed with justifications that are completely adequate for heavily exploited archipelago areas but which in inland municipalities appear irrelevant. One of my questions is whether the Minister believes that municipal self-government should be a reality even in decisions regarding the protection of the shores of the respective municipalities. The housing shortage is great in Sweden, especially in some parts of the country. In smaller inland municipalities, for example, it would help in a very good way if good commuting infrastructure were provided, so that the labour market is growing. In addition, many people want to live in rural and rural areas, but they want to be sea-worthy – and then obstacles arise. You have to build in building formations, where there are several houses, or you have to have activities in rural areas to build. This is very inhibitory. Both the Minister and I sat on the Housing Planning Committee, which had a regional grant; they looked at various regional plans. My second question is what is happening to the report that emerged from that investigation.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-98	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commending Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng on the upright way of acknowledging that the reform of the bourgeois government's LIS must be seen as a failure. It has not achieved its aims. That is the background to the fact that we, as the government, have now announced a review. The aim is to review, within the framework of the active work for more housing throughout the country, how a reform can be achieved so that we reach the goal of contributing to good rural development – together with good protection for beaches, outdoor life and nature. I would also like to commend the previous government for the initiative to re-take all decisions on the extended shore protection. Although this creates a great workload, it has enabled us to draw attention to certain aspects of separate practices throughout the country. Of course, there should not be, and through this major review we can get to grips with this so that we have an objective and equal practice in dealing with beach protection all over the country. It was a good initiative. I would also like to comment on the debate. Opinion can be conducted in different ways. The government invited wide-ranging housing talks, including to address the issue of beach protection with a view to reaching a consensus. However, the Moderates chose to leave those talks, which I very much regret, and that is why we have now had to approach these issues unilaterally from the government, so that they are important. I have to say that I find it a sad way of conducting public opinion to drop out of a conversation and then go into complaining that things are not going fast enough or not going exactly as they wanted. These are issues on which we should be able to reach a consensus. I believe that we fundamentally agree, among other things, that municipal self-government is important and that the balance issues should largely lie with the municipalities. At the same time, however, we should have a state framework that is applied objectively and evenly across the country, and that is the balance we are trying to find. Then the review of the LIS reform is an important step.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-102	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if the government and I are talking past each other, misunderstanding each other or misunderstanding how we interpret it. The Alliance government correctly changed the beach protection rules in 2009, but it also changed in 2010 and 2014. The aim was to increase flexibility and promote development in rural areas. Good access to beaches but also increased local and regional influence was the background. I can then agree that even more steps would have been taken, but the answer from the Government cannot simply be to investigate the LIS areas. That is what you intend to do in 2017, and I take that task very seriously. But not all areas are LIS areas. Especially where I live, on the west coast, many are exempt. LIS areas are often inland lakes and so on, while the normal coastlines are excluded. Should I interpret the government to look at the LIS areas, but you don't care about the rest? In that case, it's bad. In fact, we need to review the entire area of beach protection – including the LIS areas, of course. I sit in the Insynsrådet in the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland, and therefore we get a local anchor on these issues. Now, if you think of a strong housing expansion, almost in line with what was done in the 1960s and 1970s, I am concerned that these issues will hamper the whole development. Nor does it only apply to housing; it is also the case that the LRF puts in place that the extended limit on shore protection in many ways poses major problems for the agricultural industry. The county administrative boards often have a strict interpretation of the restrictions on national interests and beach protection. It is said that this is how the laws and the rules must be interpreted, and that is how it is done in many places. That's why it's so important that the state – government and parliament – actually states what is meant in both the legal text and regulations. That is why I believe that we need to get these issues on the table for a change decision and not just investigate LIS by next year. I don't think that's enough if we're going to have another system of things. If this does not happen, I am, as I have already said, very pessimistic about the possibility of passing the building plans. There are also a lot of national interests. Everyone knows that, and I think the Prime Minister has been municipal councillor in the south of Sweden. There we have both Natura 2000 sites, which we have received through the EU, and archaeological national interests for a long time. There are biological national interests, which have increased since. Each one is justified, and that's good things. Together, however, they become a dead hand in many areas. The Alliance government changed the beach protection rules in the three years I have already mentioned – 2009, 2010 and 2014. If you had stayed after 2014 I'm pretty sure that you would have continued to change. In Sweden there are almost 40,000 miles of coastline and beaches. That's ten times the circumference of the Earth. It must be possible to shape a more flexible and suitable beach protection, with increased opportunities to build in attractive locations. Unfortunately, the interpretations of beach protection rules have been as numerous as the county boards in the country, and that is very unfortunate for rural development opportunities.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-109	Mr President, I would like to There are also economic aspects to beach protection. I'll tell the minister what it's like to live in a rural community and want to build there. Many of the municipalities have very many watercourses. In my municipality of Flen – located in commuting distance to Stockholm – there are more than 200 watercourses. If we could make it easier for lake-based construction, more could be built, and there is no lack of stakeholders. In addition, the individual would receive more favourable mortgages, and that is where the economy comes in. Tobin q for Flen municipality is 0.82. Environmental technology has come a very long way today, so there must still be very tough demands on, for example, sewage management. The arguments from the banks in the municipalities where you have a low Tobin q, i.e. under 1, have been that if the house had been built more lakeside, you would have had to borrow under much more favourable conditions. It is not possible to compare with municipalities where Tobin q exceeds 1, of course. One way to get rural construction started would be to let people build and live with great environmental considerations, perhaps 100 meters from the beach instead of – as in Sörmland – 300 meters in general. Will the Minister work to facilitate inland construction with environmental considerations?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-114	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng and I might talk past each other. The important thing is not just when decisions are made. Often it takes several years to implement the decision. This also applies to the decision for which I just praised the bourgeois government. It was missing in 2009. It was then decided that all decisions regarding beach protection up to 300 meters should be reconsidered. It's happening now. The work is not finished, it is an ongoing process. The government deals with a large number of appeals concerning review cases. We have referred back a number of cases, including to the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland, with comments on the formal handling. The current review is contributing to greater equivalence in the management of beach protection. Some problems have come to light, and that is good. At the same time, during this review, we see that the amount of beach protection across the country has decreased. Therefore, it is not objectively right to claim that the 300-metre rule would be a practice applied throughout the country. That is simply not correct. What Lotta Finstorp mentioned about the economic aspects is very important. It is good that it comes out in the discussion. The initiative to review LIS areas is within the government's work to ensure that there will be more housing, and then we are talking about full-year housing, around the country. Then the economic conditions are an essential aspect. They should, of course, be part of such a review of the LIS areas. We note that it has not worked with the current system. That is the background to the need for the review. We don't want nice rules, we want more housing where they are requested, which applies all over the country. The problem of financing housing in rural areas is now great and is an important reason why it is not being built to the extent that demand provides. We have the same picture of reality, and I hope that the review of the LIS Councils will be able to face at least some of the problems that exist today. That review deals with the 300-metre rule, and it is a very active exercise.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-121	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this debate. It's very important. It is quite right that the proposal was adopted in 2009, and before that the basic proposals were adopted. Now you see the consequences, not only in Västra Götaland but throughout the country. Individual municipalities have major problems. It is also often an issue where there may be conflict with the county administrative board, which refers to the need to interpret the legal text in that way. In practical cases, municipalities can have a greater restriction. We who have read statistics know that the matter of statistics is dangerous. It can be a lie as well as it can be a truth, depending on how you get the statistics. The statistics showing that the areas are declining are perhaps quite correct, but the whole of Norrland may not be compared to other municipalities. In many municipalities in western Sweden, which I have a better overview of, it is a greatly expanded restrictive area that is being used with the beach protection now changing from 100 to 300 meters. This has consequences, which make it more difficult to build in the future. From our party we have raised a motion on this issue because we want to see a continuation of the proposals we were working on in the alliance government. This strongly states that it is necessary to ease legislation in order to get construction started and to enable municipalities to have good construction. Thank you for the debate.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-126	Mr President, I would like to In this debate there are many parts that we probably agree on across party boundaries. We agree that housing construction needs to increase throughout the country where there is demand. We agree that the protection of beaches is important for outdoor life and nature conservation. There is a need for a clear, long-term regulatory framework that is applied equally across the country and correctly. The municipalities, which are responsible for the assessment, must be given the opportunity to carry out their tasks both from the point of view of housing supply and from the point of view of nature conservation. Against this background, the government invited broad housing policy talks in the hope of reaching a consensus this spring. I'm sorry it didn't happen. Instead, we ended up here in a debate on issues on which we might have reached a consensus. It was sad, but it does not mean that we from the government are passive, but we have taken the initiative – we have a list of 20 points. Among other things, we will review the LIS rules so that we have greater opportunities to build full-year residences around the country.
i-RVXhqo1b6E6Pf3P5yA2Pya	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Agriculture and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister for Agriculture Magdalena Andersson, Minister of State Per Bolund and Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-131	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a general political question to Minister Damberg. During his visit to Saudi Arabia, the Prime Minister made a statement about women's participation in the labour market, in which he basically equated the problems women face in Sweden with the problems in Saudi Arabia. According to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights, women in Saudi Arabia are subject to widespread social institutionalised and legally sanctioned discrimination. Women live under a male guardianship that limits their freedom, and women are vulnerable in the labour market, as permission from the male guardian is required for employment to be granted. My question is therefore: is it the official position of the feminist government that the situation of women in Saudi Arabia is comparable and comparable to that of women in Sweden?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-135	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is a feminist foreign policy to contribute to the development of women in all countries on the planet, and Saudi Arabia has a very long way to go before achieving equality. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries and therefore cannot be compared with Saudi Arabia in terms of development. This was not the Prime Minister's comment either, but he discussed that we have gender equality challenges in Sweden, just as Saudi Arabia is working on gender equality issues from a completely different level and in a completely different cultural and historical context. However, it must be seen that there is also some progress in Saudi Arabia in terms of gender equality, since women have been entitled to work in shops for a few years. This is evident not least in HM's store in Saudi Arabia, where women work and have their own income for the first time. This contributes to freedom and more equal societies. However, Saudi Arabia has an immensely long way to go before achieving equality.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-139	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I understand that the Prime Minister has later withdrawn it and that he did not make a comparison between the countries. But the statement has raised serious questions, and to make this comparison between Sweden and a country where women live under guardianship and are not allowed to drive reduces women's struggle in Saudi Arabia. That is why my supplementary question is: is it the intention of the government to continue to make similar comparisons?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-141	Mr President, I would like to It's nice that the Moderates want to talk about gender equality also internationally! It would be exciting if we had more of the gender equality debate in Sweden as well. The stories of the Moderates in our country are not the avant-garde for gender equality policy reforms. Historically, almost all major gender equality reforms in Sweden have unfortunately been made in political conflict with the Moderates. We will continue to conduct gender equality policy in Sweden. We will continue to pursue gender equality policies internationally. We are the world's first feminist government, and we are proud of that!
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-144	Mr President, I would like to Today, there are many rogue operators in the transport sector who are involved and competing in public procurement. This has led to several high-profile cases around the country, where salaries and working conditions have been dumped in order to win procurements. There are a number of startling examples in both the haulage and taxi industry. It is not reasonable for it to be possible to compete with conditions whereby companies are rewarded if they give their employees poor conditions at the expense of taxpayers. The government, of course, takes this very seriously and is now presenting a proposal for a new procurement law. It is based on two EU directives, but the government wants to go further. Why? Can Minister Ardalan Shekarabi briefly explain why the government is not content with simply implementing these two EU directives, but chooses to go further? What exactly is the difference for the transport sector?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-147	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Two days ago I visited the taxi stop at Arlanda and met taxi drivers. When you hear about their reality, when they describe salaries of SEK 27 per hour, as confirmed by Swedish Radio last year in connection with service contracts, you realize that we have an alternative labour market that people pay a very high price for. These are people who work 12, 13 hours a day. They run for the public, in services that are paid for with our tax money. We have therefore tabled a proposal to be dealt with by this House on 30 November, and here we propose the reasonable: When the public, that is, the state, municipalities and county councils, buy services and works, they must also make demands that Swedish conditions under Swedish collective agreements should be respected in the job contracts. That's reasonable. This is done in other countries, and we should also ensure that our tax money is not used to reduce the wages of Swedish wage earners.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-150	Mr President, I would like to It is clear from the Minister for Civil Affairs that it is never reasonable for tax revenue to be spent on public contracts that cause social dumping and unfair conditions. Thank you for your clear answer.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-152	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Finance. A welfare society is based on our trust in each other. As a citizen, you pay taxes and then get access to school, health care and care. In a country like Sweden with one of the world's highest tax burdens, it is therefore expected to have access to world-class welfare. If you do not get what you pay for, the social contract will be broken, and citizens will lose confidence in the public. According to the Pensioners' National Organisation, PRO, today we have more than 230 000 older people living on a income lower than what the EU regards as the poverty line. These are people who can't afford to buy food or pick up their medicine. It is old people who are forced to rely on non-profit aid organisations in order not to starve. These are generations that have built this country for me and for you. My question is, why does it look like it does?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-156	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely important that the tax that we decide on here in the Swedish Parliament is then paid by those who are required to pay tax. Here we need to work more from the government, nationally via the Swedish Tax Agency and through our legislation and regulations, but also internationally both via the EU and the OECD. Here the government is also very active. It is therefore very sad that the Swedish Democrats were the only party to vote against new rules in the EU in order to combat tax evasion more effectively at EU level. This shows that the Swedish Democrats are not interested in combating tax evasion effectively, and that is very sad.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-158	Mr President, I would like to We are presenting a budget in which we increase guarantee pensions and abolish the entire pensioner's tax. Will the Social Democrats vote in favour of this? I have to say that the Minister for Finance is remarkably satisfied, given that the poor pensioners do not get a single crown in the government's budget – they do not get a penny! It would cost SEK 4.5 billion a year, Mr President, to lift this group above the poverty line, according to the Pensions Authority. Make this proportionate to the SEK 112 billion that the government invests in the establishment of new arrivals. Why does the government give priority to the country's most vulnerable group?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-160	Mr President, I would like to The first thing the government did when we took office and had the opportunity to put a budget on Parliament's table was to reduce taxes precisely on pensioners who have the lowest pension. We made a targeted tax reduction against that group precisely in order to improve their economic conditions. What did the Swedish Democrats do then? Well, they stopped that tax cut. This is the policy of the Swedish democrats towards the poor pensioners. That's the truth.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-163	Mr President, I would like to On 21 September, the Center Party held a seminar in the Riksdag on legislation against sexist advertising. It was an interesting seminar where a report was presented comparing legislation in different Nordic countries. What became clear was that, in order to get effective legislation against sexist, gender-discriminatory advertising, there must be clear legislation with sanctions and a commitment by industry itself with self-remediation mechanisms. The Minister for Equal Opportunities, Pernilla Baralt, also took part in the work of the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, who spoke warmly in favour of the commitment to this issue. She said that if the parties' own commitment is not enough, the government will return.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-166	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Hirvonen, for a very important question! It is a social problem that we are constantly being treated by sexist messages and by marketing messages that actually paint us into gender roles and which we know affect women's and men's self-esteem. We also know that young women in particular are in a vulnerable position today. This contributes, among other things, to the mental illness that is increasing in young women. It is a social problem in which the government is keen to take action. The government has started with a dialogue with stakeholders to see how they view development and what opportunities there are for self-remediation in the industry. We will continue to do so and will have a meeting at the beginning of November with the stakeholders. The government is also prepared to go forward with legislation to create a public society in which we do not have to face the kind of message that can cause problems for many citizens.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-170	Mr President, I would like to That's good news. Based on the commitment shown in the Riksdag, not least that day, by the Center Party and the Christian Democrats Caroline Szyber – chairman of the committee responsible – I believe that this is an issue that is important for the whole of society and where there is broad support in the Riksdag. We're tired of pictures of four-year-olds posing in bikinis and porn buses riding around the city. I hope we will see something soon.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-172	Mr President, I would like to I am also impatient that the issue can actually be resolved and that we can see a development in which we do not need to be met by such often offensive advertising messages. I know that there is a strong commitment to this in society. There the government – the world's first feminist government – also wants to be at the forefront and, together with the industry, act so that the bad examples of advertising, which mislead and create poor self-esteem among large groups in society, can actually disappear.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-173	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Damberg. In the last week, Wallonia in Belgium has been put at the heart of politics. They have opposed the EU-Canada trade and investment agreement CETA. Now, however, it seems that the parties are in agreement. The CETA agreement allows large companies to sue states using the ICS dispute resolution mechanism, previously known as ISDS. This can have major effects on Sweden. The Canadian mining industry has made itself known to be the most tough and active in suing states when demands have been made for the protection of the environment and indigenous peoples. The mining, oil and gas industries already account for one third of all lawsuits against states, but with CETA, Sweden is at risk of multiple lawsuits. It may be that we place higher demands on mining in Norra Kärr outside Jönköping or that we increase the mineral fee.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-178	I must draw the attention of the audience to the fact that expressions from the gallery are not allowed. I would like to draw the attention of the audience to the fact that statements from the gallery are not permitted and that you will be escorted out by guards.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-180	Mr President, I would like to A little more than two hours ago, information came from the Belgian regions that they can now support the CETA agreement. We welcome this from the Swedish Government. This means that we can take steps forward and hopefully complete the agreement that has been negotiated between the European Union and Canada. It is the most modern trade agreement that Europe has signed and concluded with any contracting party in the world. That is very pleasing. It can contribute to both growth and jobs in Sweden and in Europe. What is exciting about the agreement is that it has also modernised investment policy. It is the most modern agreement when it comes to standing up for the protection of the environment, human and animal health and workers' rights.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-183	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it is more modern not to have such a dispute settlement mechanism. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a rule of law in which also foreign companies have the right to be sure of being fair and fair. Several large companies are now suing states with the help of both national legislation and ISDS. What does the Minister think about this? Is it reasonable for companies to at least first exhaust the possibility of that right through national law before using the International Court System of CETA, ICS?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-185	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Sweden has a number of trade agreements today where the old type of mechanism has existed. Sweden has never been sued under trade agreements. To think that the most modern agreement that protects consumers, the environment, human and animal health and workers' rights would come precisely with the Canadian agreement, I think the Left Party is alone. It is clear that we will go through the agreement properly before a proposal is put on the table of Parliament. But as we see it, this is the most modern agreement we have signed so far.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-188	Mr President, I would like to I have a question addressed to Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi. It is an issue that concerns large regions, and it is an issue that is more topical than ever when 21 counties are expected to be transformed into six regions. This is an issue that the Swedish Democrats have been critical of for a long time, especially with the background that county councils have existed since the 1600s. The question of large regions has been examined for a very long time. The issue has also received criticism from the Prime Minister's own party and among the population as a whole. 40,000 signatures have been collected only in Norrland. There it is said that this is the wrong way to go. Nevertheless, the government seems to be moving on. One might wonder if it has not become a prestige project. This, of course, is not a small matter. Our constitution states that all power emanates from the people. What power does the Minister of Civil Affairs think the people should have in the question of the formation of new major regions?
i-3RucLaFZE8aBMiqY2Jno91	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Millard, for the question! The government was elected directly after the change of power by a unanimous board in Sweden's municipalities and county councils – where, moreover, the Swedish democrats advocate regional reform and stand up for this in the last referrals to the government. Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils stated that we have a serious situation in our county councils with increased gaps in health care and a regional split that threatens the cohesion of our country. We were invited to initiate a process in which, in dialogue with the county councils and municipalities concerned, we develop a way forward to ensure equivalence in healthcare and equal growth and development throughout our country. We have had two negotiators who have made a proposal, and now the proposal is on the table. Now we must engage in dialogue with all the parties involved and find a solution to keep our country together and ensure equal welfare and health care throughout our country. It will require changes. If this is exactly the solution, we will have to discuss it.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-194	Mr President, I would like to My question really touched on how the government thought about taking the will of the people into account in this matter. I referred to the very passage of the portal in the form of the government, which says that all power should be based on the people. Of course, it could be referred to on many issues, but this is not a small question. In our view, we must actually listen to what the people want here. Resistance is growing. It's growing in the population at large. It also grows in the PM's own party. Our view of this is that the people must be taken into account. I do not feel that the government will, but of course Ardalan Shekarabi will have to answer.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-196	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly important that we have a dialogue with all the stakeholders – with the local population and with the representatives of the municipalities and county councils concerned. That was also exactly the method chosen by the government. That is why we appointed two negotiating people, who have now carried out a broad work of anchoring and developed this proposal on the basis of a dialogue that they have had with the county councils concerned. Unlike in Denmark, where the new map was drawn at the Ministry of Finance, we have here a process in which we have involved all actors. It is now the Riksdag that has the opportunity to participate in the debate.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-200	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Our society and the Swedish model are based on everyone's participation and everyone's responsibility to pay taxes to our society that we can use to build the future that we want for all of us in this country. For this to work, it takes responsibility for everyone, for no one to slip away without everyone paying in the money that we in this House decide to do. My question concerns the ten-point programme developed by the government to prevent tax evasion. How long will it take for this programme to have an effect, and how do we see the future and the future?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-203	Mr President, I would like to I share Patrik Lundqvist's view that it is a central part of the Swedish model that people pay taxes and do the right thing. That's the only way we can finance our welfare. This is also how we create the kitt that holds society together. That is why, from day one, we in the government entered the Government Office actively to combat all forms of tax evasion and tax evasion. This has enabled us to develop this ten-point programme. We are already seeing that measures will come into force. Among other things, we have been successful internationally, where the EU has been pushing for greater automatic exchange of information. It's extremely important. Nationally, we have increased the resources for the Swedish Tax Agency, and there will be additional resources from 1 January. In addition, there is now a monthly report on employers' contributions. The estimate is that it will increase tax revenue by up to SEK 2 billion each year.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-207	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely good that we are getting these measures in place. Recently, we have also heard from the Swedish Tax Agency that they want to extend the system of human resources workers – which we have in the restaurant industry and most recently in the construction industry – to car workshops, wholesale food trade, body and beauty care and such things. How far do we get with it, and when does Magdalena Andersson think it could start a job getting it in?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-209	Mr President, I would like to The work with human resources workers has been very successful. In particular, the combination of human resources and now the monthly accounting of employers' contributions, the two instruments combined, will drastically reduce the opportunities for undeclared work in the sectors with human resources. It is also important to strengthen opportunities for proper pay for ordinary employees. Extending the system of human resources is an interesting proposal that we will look at.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-211	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Minister for Economic Affairs. During the year Sweden has unfortunately broken the bottom record in terms of the number of dairy companies in our country. The number of dairy farms is now under 4,000. Unfortunately, seven dairy farmers end every week, and we see no end to this. Unfortunately, I do not think that we politicians or consumers really understand how serious the consequences this will have for our country. We are talking about thousands of jobs in rural areas. We are talking about meadows and pastures that are growing again. Above all, we are talking about Sweden becoming even more vulnerable when it comes to self-sufficiency, which is already below 50%. My question I'm going to ask you, Mikael Damberg. What can Swedish dairy farmers expect the government to help them with in the future?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-215	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for an important question! This is an industry that is very exposed to cost pressures but, above all, because of a changing market, especially following the sanctions in Europe that have put even more pressure on this sector. We have Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht as Minister of Government. He has an enormous commitment to these issues and is working not only on short-term measures but also on the long-term ones such as the new food programme to see how to strengthen entire food production from primary production all the way to export and out into the world. The government has already made some efforts. These are national measures, advisory measures, part-financing from the previous crisis support and simplification of the regulatory framework. Sweden has pushed forward the proposal on advance payments, which is now becoming a reality in the EU. We have therefore made a number of efforts, but I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Agriculture will continue to follow this issue with great interest.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-219	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! I'm glad you're telling me that you really want to do more. Last Tuesday I met dairy farmers in Alunda. Their message was clear: less talk and more workshop! My question goes straight to you now. The European Parliament has discussed the milk crisis and wants to increase support for dairy farmers. This will be negotiated in the Council of Ministers. My question is: Can Sweden's dairy farmers expect the government to help and say yes to this proposal?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-222	Mr President, I would like to I will honestly say that I do not know exactly what proposal in this area has been discussed in the European Parliament. I cannot therefore say whether the government will say yes to a proposal that I do not know exactly what it looks like, but I can promise that we have a Minister for Agriculture who remains very committed to this issue and will push it forward. Just as the questioner is concerned, it is also important to emphasise that we as consumers can make choices. It is important to stand up for Swedish production, and we can actually choose to buy Swedish milk and ensure that our farmers are paid for the work they do.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-224	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg and concerns what is being done in the EU context of gold plating, that is, over-implementing EU directives. Yesterday, this House decided on a binding law on sustainability reporting by the Civil Committee. Here the government is trying to be the best in the class, but instead it is putting the internal market out of play. Swedish companies get worse rules than other companies in Europe. For example, Germany and Finland will introduce the directive directly while in Sweden we force twice as many companies to report sustainability as Germany – and Germany has 90 million inhabitants. As friends of the European Union, we strongly believe in the internal market, but we believe that the internal market is based on equal competition. I would therefore like to ask Mikael Damberg how Swedish competitiveness is strengthened by the fact that we are forcing Swedish companies to 16 times more charges than in our neighbouring countries Germany and Finland and how more jobs will be created from this proposal. After all, Stefan Löfven made a promise to ask each minister how many jobs there will be of a proposal.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-227	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Said Abdu, for the question! It is important that we have an internal market in Europe, but it is also important that we in Sweden have the opportunity to take the lead. Sweden has done so historically, not least in the environmental field. In retrospect, it has proved to be a successful policy, not least linked to the ability of companies to change their production and be at the forefront. Now, after the Paris Agreement, pressure will increase on our economies and on our societies in Europe's countries to change. Companies and countries at the forefront of sustainable development will have an advantage. Our view is that it is a good step to increase information about sustainability reporting for companies in Sweden. It is good for companies themselves to keep an eye on these issues, because it reduces risks and makes you see the opportunities, but it is also good for investors to know that the companies on the stock exchange have made sensible reviews of sustainability risks. We see this as an expression of our policy to move Sweden forward in a sustainable direction.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-230	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that sustainability reporting is important and that we should be at the forefront as a nation. Our Swedish companies do. Three out of four companies report sustainability already today. Many of our companies have made a huge journey in the last two years. My question, however, is why we are repeatedly over-implementing EU directives and distorting competition for our Swedish companies in relation to the companies that exist in Europe.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-232	Mr President, I would like to It is a little surprising that the Liberals here put forward the argument that we are distorting competition by imposing sustainability requirements. I thought sustainability was actually a way to cope with competition in the future – to ensure that companies are ready for the transition that we are facing and that investors and others should have knowledge. You have to decide: either sustainability accounting is good, and then it is something we should stimulate and push forward, or it is something bad, and then you should stop it and blame the EU for not implementing it. Sweden must have a balance in terms of measures, but we are going to move forward in this area.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-235	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The new rules for F-tax note, which entered into force on 1 January 2009, may not have been needed and were rather ill-considered. Reports from various sectors have come that employees are forced to become entrepreneurs in order to keep or get a job. In many trade unions there is great concern that the current F tax rules are being used by rogue employers to force workers to become apparent entrepreneurs. My question is whether the legislation does not need to be reviewed.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-238	Mr President, I would like to It is an important issue that is raised. For those people who want to run a business, it should be easy to start and run a business, but of course we do not want it so that they will want to be employees forced by rogue employers to run a business. That's not how we want it to work. There is always a balance between making it easy and easy to start a business and that no one should be forced to do so. What is important is that there is careful control on the part of the Swedish Tax Agency that you have a serious advisor even if you have an F ‐ tax bill. Of course, one can always discuss how the balance should look, but it is also important that there is a good dialogue between the trade union movement and employers in order for people not to be forced into self-employment if they do not want to.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-240	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. I do not need a supplementary answer. You're so clear.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-242	Mr President, I would like to I put my question to Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg. Me and the Center Party think drones play an important role in society. Today, some 8 000 people are employed in this activity. These are important jobs and businesses. Many young people also get jobs there. It concerns inspections, brokerage services and the media. Not least, Missing People saves a lot of people because of drones. But now the Minister of Justice, because of a ruling by the Supreme Administrative Court, believes that you should wait for an investigation that will take about six months, and then you should have a referral period. We know that there will be no decision on this matter before the 2018 elections.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-246	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the question! There were probably quite a few of us who were a little surprised by the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment. I didn't think they'd draw the line right there. At least it wasn't the expectations I had. Now this is about a fairly new legislation, the 2013 camera monitoring team. It was the bourgeois government that proposed the legislation that the courts have now examined, with this outcome. Our government has already seen in 2015 that such major changes are taking place that we have set up an investigation to see how the legislation is to be modernised. Everyone knows that these are not quite simple questions. It requires a process of investigation, judicial review, consultation time and then legislation. This is how we make law in Sweden. I would like to see it go faster, if it could, but we also have a responsibility to process it.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-249	Mr President, I would like to Of course, one has a responsibility for processing and, of course, one should take into account the individual and the integrity of the individual. But the strange thing is that this will only apply to Swedish companies. So it is good to establish yourself in an EU country or an EE S country, such as Norway or any of our neighbouring countries, and then you have to carry out activities here. Should we lose tax revenue because the government cannot act quickly on this issue?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-250	Mr President, I would like to An alternative way would have been if the previous government had not presented a bill that had the consequences that we now see. After all, it was not that long ago that you submitted the bill. Now we see how the law has been interpreted in court. Somehow the preparation work was not really done. Now we have the legislation that you decided on. We have already set up an investigation to change this. It will take some time, but I am the first to sign up to a desire for this to happen quickly, because this is an industry in growth. I also hope that the county administrative boards are smooth in their handling.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-252	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Consumer Affairs Per Bolund. Swedish meat production is at the top when it comes to animal welfare and low use of antibiotics. It is also more climate-smart to buy Swedish meat. Therefore, many consumers prefer just that to foreign purchases. Making a conscious choice in the store is easy because we have requirements for origin marking. But when I buy lunch or dinner at a restaurant, you don't have to tell me where the meat comes from. My question is: does the government intend to continue the regulation on origin marking so that it also includes restaurants and so that we can make informed choices there too?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-256	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johanna Haraldsson, for an important question! It is clear that consumers want to make a difference. When they are given tools and information, consumers are also prepared to act. A clear example is the origin marking in shops. We see that it has changed people's choices. You often choose more locally produced. One problem has been that restaurants and large kitchens have not had that kind of information. That is why I and the Minister for Rural Development wrote an article in which we said that this is a priority area for the government. We believe that consumers should have access to this information wherever they buy their food, whether it is in a shop or in a restaurant, and make demands on operators in the industry to take their responsibility and take initiatives. Fortunately, Visita, the large organization for these companies, has now said that they will develop an action plan to enable their members to provide information about the origin of food in large kitchens. We in the government are very much in favour of this. We hope it will be successful.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I also think it is positive that the industry is taking its own initiative, but not all companies are organised in, for example, Visita. Then my question is: Does this exclude that the government will take initiatives in this area that can contribute to an increase in demand that benefits Swedish agriculture?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-261	Mr President, I would like to This is an important area. We believe that consumers deserve information and knowledge in order to act consciously as consumers. We are now in favour of taking initiatives from the industry. We will follow those initiatives and see how they develop. If it turns out that consumers do not get that information in an easily accessible way, so that it is also possible to be active as a consumer, we are prepared to move forward with regulatory changes or legislation. But we are now hoping that the industry initiative will come out well and that as consumers we will feel that we can act consciously also in restaurants.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-262	Mr President, I would like to I have a general political question for Minister Damberg. This concerns the absurd situation that the municipalities around Stockholm face when they receive a lot of new arrivals at very short notice. There are virtually no vacant dwellings in the municipalities around Stockholm. In the agreement on better distribution of new arrivals, there was also an agreement on simplification, not least in the case of temporary building permits. That is something that is absolutely necessary. The only alternative that is actually available to the municipalities around Stockholm is housing modules, and this presupposes that temporary building permits can be granted. As it is so difficult to get them through at present, the only solution left for municipalities is basically mattresses on the floor of various sports halls. They will therefore receive a large number of new arrivals who currently live in functioning asylum accommodations, which the Migration Agency is planning to close. They will move to Stockholm and live on mattresses in sports halls. Does the Minister think that's reasonable?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-264	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. We are faced with a situation that will be exhausting. That is why the parties agreed over the block border on how responsibility between Sweden's municipalities should be divided differently. Prior to this agreement, a few municipalities in Sweden were actually responsible for the reception. It is still the case that the large proportion of people who have come to Sweden will end up in municipalities, for example with the EBO legislation in force. However, some of those who have arrived will be distributed according to the system that we have agreed. Then it is reasonable that rich municipalities in Stockholm's suburban areas are also involved in taking the responsibility and making an effort to make room for accommodation for the people who come. I can guarantee that it is not easier to do so in Södertälje, Botkyrka or Malmö.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-266	Mr President, I would like to We absolutely agree that all municipalities need to be involved in taking on their responsibilities. However, when it takes ten years from idea to finished residence in Stockholm and there are no vacant apartments available, it is very difficult for municipalities to take responsibility. What makes sense in a situation like this is setting up modular housing. The agreement also included a simplification of temporary building permits. We haven't seen anything of it yet. This means giving the municipalities responsibility for the new arrivals, but tying them to the only solution that is reasonable in order to obtain housing for new arrivals in a short time.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-268	Mr President, I would like to Increasing the pace of housing construction is definitely a priority. It's about reviewing regulations so that things go quickly, but it's also about municipalities doing everything they can to get land and speed up their own planning processes. This also applies to county boards and others being quick in the process. That is a prerequisite for success, and we have a common responsibility there. However, I am a little surprised that it just happens to be some moderate-controlled municipalities in Stockholm's suburban areas, which historically have not built much, which now have the greatest problems with building when other municipalities manage it.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-270	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. We heard earlier a question about the taxi business. On 30 November, we in the Swedish Parliament have the opportunity to make a decision that demands should be made on fair terms in public procurement, i.e. that municipalities, county councils and authorities should be able to make demands so that we use taxpayers' money in the right way and are not involved in dumping wages. Unfortunately, there are now other forces in society, both in employers' organisations and in this House. M, C, L, KD and SD support proposals that prevent us from making demands on fair terms and labour law requirements. Can the Minister describe the consequences in Sweden if we do not have such provisions that we now have the opportunity to decide on?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-272	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Monica Green, for the question! It's simple. The current situation will then continue. After 1 January 2017, we will therefore continue to benefit foreign companies that pay foreign wages below the Swedish levels and disadvantage Swedish serious companies that pay salaries according to Swedish collective agreements. That is what will continue. We will continue to have low wages in the taxi industry. There will be still low wages in the cleaning industry. We have enormous power. In the taxi industry, 50% of public sector revenue comes from the car industry. 50% of the revenue comes from our tax revenue. This money is currently being used to benefit companies that do not pay salaries under Swedish collective agreements. It is shameful, Mr President. There is no other Nordic country that allows this and puts its own serious companies at a disadvantage in the way we do in Sweden. The question that was asked should be addressed to the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeois parties and not to the government.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-275	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we also intend to do so in different places and at workplaces until 30 November. Now the Minister said that other countries are going to make demands on collective agreements and on fair terms. Perhaps that is the basis, because there is a European directive that we need to comply with. Can we also be fined if it is so bad that M, C, L, KD and SD join forces to bring this proposal to a conclusion?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-277	Mr President, I would like to We are in the strange situation that the European Commission must work to force Sweden to introduce legislation that ensures that Swedish wages and conditions apply to the Swedish labour market. I don't know if it's happened before, but that's where we are now. I call on all members of parliament from all parties to accept their responsibilities and not to betray Swedish employees. The important thing is not that we comply with EU law – it is also important. The important thing is that we stand up for our employees.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-278	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a general political question to Minister Mikael Damberg. The Swedish nurses are a critical resource for Swedish healthcare, and they are important for our health. More recently, there have been reports of a lack of nurses due to escape from health care. The cause is reported to be mainly a lack of skills development and a lack of leadership capital in health care in terms of how to manage this extremely important resource.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sotiris Delis, for an important question. Medical care in Sweden is strained. We have a situation where there are problems with staffing in many places around Sweden. That is one of the reasons why the government is providing resources. I do not think we can just discuss the issue of governance and governance. It is also about the fact that not least county councils and regions need to have financial resources in order to be able to support and plan their activities properly. Moreover, the lack of nurses, not least some specialist nurses, which we have today could have been addressed if a more aggressive education policy had been pursued for a number of years. Then we'd have more to hire. This is what the government is doing too. We are expanding education opportunities to be able to hire more people in healthcare in the future. It is a management issue, a resource issue and an education issue. The government takes this very seriously.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-282	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to my question is that I have had conversations at home in Jönköping with a lot of professionals in the industry. They are keen that the issue be lifted and ventilated and that action be taken. I look forward to the measures that the Government has announced, because the issue really needs to be resolved as soon as possible.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-284	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to a continued discussion on health care. I also hope for broad support in this House for the additional resources needed by county councils. There we still have some things to wish for from the Moderates. You can look at your draft budget and how it is directed. It's not quite as big a bet. The welfare billions, the professional billions, the supply of skills and the expansion of training places in nursing education are prerequisites for reversing this trend and ensuring that we meet the skills needs of health care. I look forward to continued dialogue on this issue because it will be important in the future.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-287	Mr President, I would like to In mid-September, it was announced that the financing of Nya Karolinska in Solna was rejected by the Swedish Tax Agency because the responsible project company, SHP, used a so-called interest rate spin via Luxembourg to withhold millions from taxation in Sweden. For 2013, SHP is denied a deduction of nearly SEK 27 million, but the decision may affect the assessment of interest deductions for loans totalling SEK 590 million that run until 2043. Words are now opposed to words on the question of whether the moderate-led county council management was in agreement with this financial arrangement, as the project company claims. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has reacted strongly to the tasks and demanded that the Moderates appoint a crisis commission nationally to bring clarity to the deal. Why does the Minister of Finance think this is so urgent?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-289	Mr President, I would like to We have seen how Stockholm County Council has been mismanaged by the moderate-led county council. Time and again we get to read about one scandal after another, about how Stockholm's tax money goes to completely the wrong things. Buying in stockings for $5,000 is just one of the many examples. In addition, we now have discussions on whether aggressive tax planning has been carried out in connection with the construction of the New Karolinska Hospital, which has become incredibly expensive for taxpayers in Stockholm. This needs to be clarified, and there will, of course, be a process around this. This is something that spills over on the Moderates far beyond Stockholm County Council. The Moderates must find out what is happening in Stockholm and what responsibility they take for this at national level. It's a question for Anna Kinberg Batra.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-292	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, it is a difficult situation that has arisen. I therefore wonder whether the Government will in any way follow up on this issue or plan to take any action.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-294	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that we are many who ask the Moderates about what is happening in Stockholm County Council. The whole foundation of the Swedish model is that we take responsibility for taxpayers' money and are careful about how we use the money, while we see how the Moderates in Stockholm County Council time and time again misplace taxpayers' money. That is not acceptable. That is why the question must be put to Anna Kinberg Batra.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-296	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Mikael Damberg. I was going to ask a question about digitalisation and growth today, but I realise that all the good things about this are obscured by strange outcomes and public bullying precisely in our digital moys. By the end of the week, we have seen how even elected representatives here in Parliament used their place in public to insult a child. I am referring here to SD representatives who attacked a young boy in a panel discussion on TV4 and its aftermath. For me, this is not consistent with ordinary human respect, and I have not yet taken note of the government's view. I therefore ask Mikael Damberg how he reacts to this as a representative of the government.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-299	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for the question! I think it's a bigger question than just whether SD has somehow been inciting a young guy in social media. This is about the responsibility that we, as elected representatives and politicians, have in the public debate. I believe that many people who follow this broadcast on television expect us, as politicians and the highest representatives in this House, to express ourselves well and not contribute to incitement or social media campaigns against people who, in this case, are also children. Moreover, when it turns out that you have been wrong and that you have been inciting yourself, you cannot even apologize properly, but it becomes a little overconfident that it was, as it was called, common sense but that it was a bit unfortunate. I think you should be very clear that this is not how you behave as a elected representative in the Swedish parliament. These are people who aspire to end up in a government in the future. That is no way to behave in this Chamber.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-302	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the answer and with the approach and attitude of the Minister, because I share the view that free speech requires responsibility. Digitalisation places new demands on us who use digital media in all contexts, every day.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-304	Mr President, I would like to My final comment is that it is clear that those of us who are active in politics will end up in debates and discussions that sometimes get quite hot. Nevertheless, I myself am trying to find a respectful appeal in those discussions. Attacking or attacking children who are not at all politically active themselves and inciting them in social media should lead to action also by the party leadership, that one actually dares to act. We have not seen much of any discussion about zero tolerance to racism in that party.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-307	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Ardalan Shekarabi my question. It is a problem today that there is an administrative burden on staff in the welfare sector. You're supposed to register and re-report a lot of things. Above all, we have heard about this with regard to teachers and their situation, but it also applies to other groups, such as the elderly. The important thing in this context is that professionals must be allowed to be professionals, so that you have to have confidence that those who are going to do the job can do it. Of course we should have a control system, but it must not take over too much of the working time, especially in groups where there is already a shortage of staff. Every single one of them needs to do their job. My question to the Minister is: how can we do to reduce the regulatory burden successfully, so that we have more time to practise our profession but, at the same time, of course, there is some sort of control?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-312	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for this important question! The government has launched a broad process of reducing the administrative burden and giving greater room for manoeuvre to the professions in the public sector. We call that process the reform of trust. This means that we have a delegation working with experimental activities in municipalities and county councils. These are activities that will be evaluated and aimed at reducing the administrative burden and harnessing the skills and commitment of employees in the public sector. We work with the governance of the municipal sector to reduce the administrative requirements associated with the government's governance of the municipal sector. But we are also working with the state authorities, where we know that the professions that represent the efforts of the state sector need to be given better conditions and a less administrative burden. These processes are under way, and we are convinced that they are an important part of improving the quality of public services.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-316	Mr President, I would like to I think what is going on now is very important and positive. One example is the minute measurement in the care of the elderly, which is incredibly stressful for both staff and patients. I think that a great deal can be done here to increase recruitment, because it is difficult to get staff in certain professional groups to work there. They need to know that they are allowed to pursue their profession and do not devote themselves much to administration.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-318	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that several municipalities work with alternative governance models that abolish minute schedules and provide better conditions for the staff in the care of the elderly to adapt their operations to the will of the user. I want to highlight the experimental activities in Sundsvall, and we have several examples from Skåne where the municipalities have decided to do this. It is incredibly important that we disseminate this knowledge within the framework of the work of the trust reform and that we also evaluate these governance models.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-320	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister for Finance and Consumer Affairs a question. Unfortunately, the issue of misleading marketing practices of pension funds has become a matter of concern. Consumer protection is particularly important in this area. Since many people feel that pension issues are complex, wrong decisions can have very serious consequences for the private economy. According to information in the media about the Malta registered fund Falcon Funds, approximately 22 000 Swedish pension savers risk losing several billion SEK of their pension money together. At the same time, it seems almost impossible to get in touch with the fund manager, even for a digging journalist.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-324	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Vestlund for an essential question. I probably wasn't the only one to get upset when I saw the news that a fund in the Swedish premium pension square has behaved like this and is risking future pensioners' money. It is urgent that we take action, and we must act quickly in these cases. The Pensions Authority has already taken steps to strengthen the cooperation agreement applicable to the funds in the fund square. Now the type of behavior that Falcon Funds have had is not accepted. It is also clear that there is a shortage at European level. The supervisory authorities have not taken the responsibility they should take for the funds that are Malta-based. We need to work within the EU to ensure that everyone complies with the rules wherever in Europe they are stationed. We also need to work in dialogue with the Pension Agency to ensure that they have the tools they need to move forward.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-329	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The financial market is largely a common issue for the EU as a whole. Perhaps there is not enough regulation in this area. There are, of course, many detailed rules for the financial market, but in this particular area I cannot see that there are clear rules. Is the Government willing to take initiatives on these issues?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-332	Mr President, I would like to In fact, we are currently implementing legislation in Sweden that would make a big difference in these cases. It is about how to market financial products. It is a regulatory framework that limits and says that you have to have a securities permit if you are to sell, for example, pension savings. If you do not follow the rules, you risk getting rid of the permit and being disfellowshipped from doing this kind of business. This would make a big difference, not least in the type of sales that preceded the Falcon Funds case.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-336	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg. When notice in industry affects different locations, it is important to raise your eyes and have the whole area in mind. There is an obvious risk that we will miss some places, and help them, because there will be a great focus on large companies and large towns. One example is from my own home country. What happens to Ericsson is central to all of Sjuhärad. Subcontracting companies are at risk, and many commute into jobs from adjacent k ommuner. Many hundred employees who form the tax base in municipalities that do not house the industrial company itself are also affected. While the future of Ericsson in Borås is uncertain, Herrljunga has been affected by two major industrial notifications. At Fideltronics, we know that 60 people lose their jobs, and at Starsprings 64 people were given notice and another 25 hired in. This means that 149 people are at risk of becoming unemployed within a few months. My question to Mikael Damberg concerns the overall view of the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry in the affected areas. Do you do enough?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-341	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Willner for the question. We have been waiting for Ericsson to communicate what they would do, and now they have said that thousands of people will be allowed to leave Ericsson. Although no one is aware, Ericsson has said that this is the focus of the work. Negotiations with the trade unions are now waiting. We in the government have said that we want to be prepared even before, so we have appointed two negotiators. Our focus is to support the people and places that may be affected. But we also want to work with the positive side. It's about Ericsson's 5G technology development in Sweden that can mean a lot to Swedish industry's development. I definitely take the issue seriously and look forward to both the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Labour working closely with the municipalities affected by notice.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-345	Mr President, I would like to While we have a difficult situation in Herrljunga, there is a great demand for labour to the industry in both Herrljunga and nearby Vårgårda. As the Minister for Economic Affairs points out, we need to ensure that there is conversion capacity and adaptability even in small towns. We need an active employment service, the possibility of retraining and further training via Komvux, and efforts to increase housing construction so that companies can recruit, develop and retain their staff.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-347	Mr President, I would like to It is important to point out that the companies that give notice, not least Ericsson, have a great deal of responsibility. According to the trade unions, Ericsson has taken a major responsibility at previous notice to help the staff further. I expect Ericsson to do so again this time. As is said, we see very positively in West Sweden. Volvo Cars recruits like never before. So does Autoliv. So there is a lot of excitement in the region. The funny thing is that it is the industry that is drawing the development in Västra Götaland. I look forward to continuing to work on these issues.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-351	Mr President, I would like to Infrastructure is a very important issue for society. It is therefore gratifying that the Government's proposal invests 662 billion in infrastructure over the next ten years. But today's modern infrastructure consists of more. In committee today we received a research report saying that broadband expansion contributes to the country's growth.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-354	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Jasenko for an important question. Modern infrastructure is a basic condition for people to live and live throughout the country. It is also an increasingly important part of enterprise policy for companies to be able to function, charge and be connected. It is therefore a hugely important issue. The government has made historically large investments and doubled the support for broadband expansion in Sweden. We see that demand is only growing. More and more people and villages around Sweden want to be connected because they see that it is such an important part of the development. Sweden is a long and large country. Nevertheless, we are well advanced in the development of digital technology. I believe that this is a prerequisite for our industrial ambitions throughout the country, and the government takes this issue very seriously.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-360	Mr President, I would like to The issue must be taken seriously. I visited a dairy farmer who could not actually milk his cows without broadband. Even when it comes to milk, just-in-time applies, and you have to be connected at the right time. It is therefore important that all companies are given the opportunity to contribute to growth by having broadband.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-361	Mr President, I would like to I know that Peter Eriksson is working on an updated strategy for these issues. Broadband expansion is the basic, but we are also seeing enormous technological developments in terms of mobile coverage. Technological development has come a long way here. We all know that when we have good cell phone coverage, a lot can be done. We need to move forward. It is a question of regional development, but it is also a question of Sweden's prospects for growth in the future.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-364	That concludes today's Question Time. I thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-G18zwPK8aZLApt9QwpXNmV	Mr President, I would like to The European Council met last Thursday and Friday. Sweden had several important issues on the agenda. Conclusions were adopted on migration, trade, global and economic issues and Syria. In addition, the EU's relationship with Russia was also discussed. This was the first time that Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May participated. She stressed that the UK remained a full member of the EU and intended to participate in the work until the date of its withdrawal. There was no discussion on this. Let me start by saying a few words about migration. We discussed recent developments with a focus on the external dimension. Here we were able to see that the work is moving forward. The progress made with tailor-made country packages is an important element in moving forward with positive developments in the EU's neighbourhood. The agreement concluded with Afghanistan the other week, in order to have an orderly return, is another welcome piece of the puzzle. Cooperation must now continue with more countries, both on development and return. Federica Mogherini, the EU High Representative, outlined the cooperation that the EU is now developing with several countries in Africa. The goal is for fewer people to be forced to flee. Cooperation between the EU and Turkey is important, and it brings results. At the same time, of course, both parties must implement their parts of the agreement. Turkey needs to focus on the remaining challenges identified by the Commission in order for Turkish citizens to be eligible for visa-free treatment in the EU. The EU's external border must work. That is why it is important and good that the European coast and border guard is up and running. A number of Member States advocated a full return to the Schengen rules at the meeting, i.e. the removal of internal border controls that some countries – including Sweden – have introduced. I and others pointed out that the possibility of internal border controls should remain, and so did it – the conclusions allow for further border controls. Despite the steps taken, the challenges remain significant in the EU. The implementation of the decisions taken must, above all, be much better, as I pointed out at the meeting. We need a sustainable and credible common asylum system in the EU, but there is still a long way to go before we are on target. The negotiations must therefore be given priority, and it is good that the Heads of State or Government will come back to the issue of the common asylum system at the European Council in December. Mr President, I would like to Trade issues became the focus of this summit. It was hoped that the European Council would welcome the fact that the EU was now ready to sign a trade agreement with Canada. Unfortunately, we can see that this was not the case. This is obviously very unfortunate – the agreement is of both economic and political importance. The information we have today is that work is still going on to get a signature. We also discussed trade policy instruments such as safeguard duties. We are currently seeing trends among several Member States to increasingly want to protect domestic economic activities through damaging trade policy measures. That is not the way to go, as I was clear about. Trade policy safeguards may be needed, but they must be designed in a balanced way that also takes into account the interests of importers and consumers. I was supported by several Heads of State or Government for that line, but there were also many who advocated a more protectionist approach. We finally agreed to mandate trade ministers to find a long-term solution before the end of the year. I believe that progressive trade policy contributes to sustainable growth, increased employment and a more competitive European economy. It is therefore important to balance this trade policy debate and also to demonstrate the benefits of open and global trade. Mr President, I would like to During the dinner, a broad and strategic discussion was held on Russia. Despite the different starting points of the Member States, the EU remains united in its policy towards Russia. Again, I pointed out, together with several other Heads of State or Government, that we do not see any way of easing sanctions against Russia as long as the Minsk agreement has not been fulfilled. As is well known, decisions are only taken on this issue in December, but I still feel that we have now prepared the ground for an extension of these important sanctions. I raised the issue of dealing with Nord Stream 2 in a European perspective. For this I received the support of some colleagues, but we also know that not all stakeholders share the same view. We had a long discussion about the war in Syria. A vast majority of Member States strongly condemned the Russian bombings of Aleppo. Discussions also focused on the possibility of imposing sanctions on both the Syrian regime and Russian actors. I was clear that this is something that Sweden would support, but despite the fact that several countries had a similar view, it was not possible to reach agreement in that particular part. We agreed on a text that the EU should consider all available options. The terrible situation in Syria must be brought to an end, and that requires action. We must put an end to violence and human suffering, and those responsible must be held accountable. Mr President, I would like to The conclusion texts also raise some global and economic issues. The EU's ratification of the Paris Agreement is welcomed and previous conclusions on the importance of the completion of the internal market are reiterated. These issues are important, and it is important that the EU also delivers results to its citizens. The Commission's new proposal on the European Investment Fund is mentioned in the conclusions, but no decisions were taken. We also stated that we must continue to work to combat youth unemployment. This, Mr President, was the report back from the European Council.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-381	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement from the European Council. Very many major and important issues are on the agenda – Europe is not exactly without challenges at the moment. Migration was obviously up for discussion. As the Prime Minister said, the focus was mostly on the outer border. A number of steps have been taken, and it is important that this work continues. Without a well-functioning external border, we will have to have border controls within the EU, which is something we want to get away from. I therefore hope that we will push this issue very hard in the future. Redistribution should be well addressed at forthcoming meetings, but it should be clear that everyone shares the responsibility to receive refugees in Europe. It is equally important that we have solidarity within Sweden and that all municipalities receive refugees. Russia was discussed, and I think it is good that the government and the Prime Minister have been driving the issue of sanctions. Initially, it was about Ukraine and Crimea, and now it is also about the terrible events in Syria. As the Prime Minister says, it is very important for the EU to be united. There's only one person who benefits from beating wedges into unity, and that's Russia. With regard to the CETA agreement, it was sad that no decision was reached. On the basis of what is said in the news today, however, there is a light, which I welcome. I am convinced that those who lose the most from protectionism are those who stand at the very bottom of the social ladder. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he has anything new positive to say about the CETA negotiations.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-386	Mr President, I would like to These are important issues that Marie Granlund mentions. Unfortunately, with regard to migration, it is a long way to go only to get the redistribution that has already been decided. It should be quick to carry out what we agree on. I'm afraid that's not exactly what it looks like. However, we should remember, as I also said in the European Council last week, that there are still countries that want to contribute and try pragmatically. But we are far from being a really good result, and it also raises questions about future systems. As Marie Granlund points out, just as we in Sweden say that all municipalities must assume their responsibilities, even all countries must assume their responsibilities. So that question remains. As far as Russia is concerned, I fully share the view that unity is important, and that is what we are seeking. As far as CETA is concerned, I have no more information than the one you have probably also heard, namely that further negotiations are in progress. It is only good that Canada has such patience, shows such magnanimity and is prepared to continue the discussion. Unfortunately, as far as I am informed, the summit seems to be being postponed – a negative enough signal. However, the continuation of the work is extremely important, and it also shows the importance of us actually pursuing trade issues. For us as a small country, this is very important, and it is clear that it would be a great asset to have such a trade agreement with Canada. The work is continuing!
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-390	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to my questions! The Prime Minister also mentioned that Theresa May was at her first meeting and now intended to work as a full member of the European Council. I know that the summit was not really explicit about it, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister if there is any news on the issue of Brexit, any new timetable or anything like that. Or do you still think it will be announced in March?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-391	Mr President, I would like to There was no discussion of the matter. The President, Mr Tusk, was very careful that there would be no discussion because it could easily be understood that negotiations had begun if the notification had not taken place. Theresa May did not inform us of any plans other than those already announced, so she confirmed the timetable previously mentioned.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-392	Mr President, I would like to Russia is systematically violating international law, both in Ukraine and in Syria, and it must have consequences, both politically and economically. The Prime Minister said last week's consultation before the summit that the sanctions would not come up at the meeting. After all, the question of Russia was now raised, so I wonder why the Prime Minister gave another answer in the consultation before the meeting and thus missed the opportunity to push the question of sanctions at the meeting. On the part of the Moderates, we have been clear for a long time that we think it is important to push the issue of reinforced sanctions and that the government does so. We believe that Sweden must be the driving force behind reinforced sanctions against Russia and that the EU must demonstrate not only in words but also in deeds how unacceptable Russia's de facto behaviour is. This is best done by strengthening sanctions. It is not good enough, then, to talk about extending the current ones or possibly giving support if the issue came up and supporting a discussion, but here it is about showing leadership and actively pushing forward. I would therefore like to repeat my question: why has the Prime Minister not taken the opportunity to actively press for strengthened sanctions against Russia?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-395	Mr President, I would like to It's a direct misdescription. Firstly, the issue was up in the EU Council, and I said that there would certainly be discussion but that I did not believe in unity on this issue. The question was raised, and I have just said in my introduction that Sweden agrees in the event of a consensus being reached. But unity as such is important, and it was not attainable. That is what is required, and it is not possible – if you believe it – just to go down to Brussels and say what things are supposed to be like. It doesn't work like that. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached. On the other hand, as I also said in my introduction, it was so that the European Union could consider all the options available, and it would have to be drilled into that. But there is no doubt that Russia's actions are to be condemned, as is happening. Any crimes must, of course, also be investigated and the guilty brought to justice. We must continue to pursue the issue of sanctions. We also need to reach agreement on them, and that is not the case at the moment.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-397	Mr President, I would like to In the run-up to the summit, we had a consultation with the Prime Minister, and he said that he would welcome a discussion. There is a huge difference between welcoming a discussion and being a driving force for wanting to see results. We want results in the form of strengthened sanctions against Russia for its actions in Ukraine and Syria. So I wonder again: why did the Prime Minister not take the opportunity to join Britain and France and actively push for strengthened sanctions against Russia?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-398	Mr President, I would like to I don't know how to explain this more clearly. I did it. There were a number of countries that raised precisely that question: sanctions against Russia also need to be considered in relation to the management of Syria. It was signed and several other countries. But there was no agreement, and then there will be no decision. I cannot decide what other countries should think. That is not how it works in Europe and nowhere else, either. So unfortunately, the situation is that there is no agreement, but Sweden is pushing the issue. We have expressed it, and we intend to continue to do so.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-399	Mr President, the Prime Minister. When it comes to common migration policy, the Swedish Democrats have been clear. We believe that each Member State should have the right to decide for itself, and forcing Member States is not a good way forward when it has cooperation. The imposition of fines on individual states of up to EUR 250 000 per refugee is not a policy of statesmanship. Hungary and several other Member States will not accept these refugees, and it is doubtful whether they will accept the fine. As far as the common border guard is concerned, we are opposed to a common authority, because we believe in intergovernmental cooperation. We have long advocated cooperation with African states, and that is something we consider necessary to stop the large flows across the Mediterranean. Increased vigilance on alternative routes is also a necessity. The new agreement with Afghanistan is also a step in the right direction. Given that, according to EU asylum statistics, the number of migrants does not appear to be falling, I wonder whether the Prime Minister will extend border controls. How does the Prime Minister think that those Member States that do not accept their share of refugees and do not pay fines should be dealt with by the EU?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-402	Mr President, I would like to I have a different view on a common migration policy; that is clear. I am absolutely convinced that it is better for the refugees – we will be able to help more if everyone helps each other. It is better for Sweden because we get the responsibility spread, and it is better for Europe if we succeed in this matter. So we have a completely different view here, and now we are discussing a new common system. As far as the border authority is concerned, developments are under way now, and that is a good thing. We must be sure at the external border if internal mobility is to work; that is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, I note what has been said about Africa and Afghanistan, as well as the other routes that have also been briefly described, for example, the western Mediterranean route. Border control in Sweden was not up at this meeting. Something is being prepared here at home, and that work continues.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-405	Mr President, I would like to When I visited the African Union in February this year, it was very clear that the Union wants and can cope with the great influx of refugees from African countries itself. You know that you need these people to build a strong continent. There is also a need for financial support from the EU to do this. However, the EU has chosen to give it a cold hand, although it has ambitious and cost-effective measures that could benefit Africa and build-up. In our view, it is time for Europe to start to take responsibility and help you in real life and not just come with a lot of pink fluff. It would be good if Sweden could put on the leadership shirt and make this a reality.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-407	Mr President, I would like to This, too, is not in line with reality. Last year, the European Union and a number of African states met precisely to discuss how to deal with the situation, where we agreed that it is important to cooperate so that people are not forced to flee their countries or be subjected to both. That's the work that's going on. So it's started. There is now concrete cooperation with five countries, and it seems that cooperation with Niger is going very well; the smuggling routes have been severely strangled. This is cooperation that must continue. It is based on African countries doing their part, but also on receiving EU support. It will therefore continue, and I believe that it will be successful.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-409	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the Prime Minister's report from the important summit in the European Union. We are all aware of the acts of violence in the war, the acts of terror in Syria and Iraq, the air attacks on Aleppo and the moves to free Mosul from Daish. It has marked the international agenda – quite rightly – and also the discussions at this important EU summit. Human suffering is terrible. The war crimes, the difficulties of peace talks and the development of more people being forced to flee provide a situation in which, not least, the EU and the EU Member States must help each other to do the right thing and do good. Russia's role in the Aleppo bombing and the war-related migration crisis was discussed at the EU summit. I wonder if the Prime Minister can say anything more about how he was driving, on behalf of Sweden, that the EU must have a role to play in helping and creating opportunities for refugees from, for example, Mosul. This also applies to the reconstruction and the important peace talks that must take place at the end of the war. If parts of the internal migration discussion were conducted anyway, I also wonder if Sweden and the Prime Minister were working and have found ways to conduct dialogue in order for more EU countries to understand how important it is for refugees to establish themselves in countries to have stable conditions. They need family reunification and long-term residence permits in order to contribute to society by working and training.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-413	Mr President, I would like to Let's start in the last part. It is an ongoing discussion within the framework of the new system, so there was no such discussion during this European Council. As far as Syria is concerned, that is exactly the right thing to do, and that discussion is ongoing. In particular, there is support for the Commission to be active in this area. With regard to Syria, however, it was pointed out – and I too stressed – that it is important that it be done with support in the UN, so that we do not have different forces pulling here. What we are doing together should also be supported in the UN work, and it also confirmed High Representative Federica Mogherini. As far as Russia is concerned, we are in agreement. I believe that it is clear who is responsible for the bombings, and that needs to be properly investigated. As Åsa Romson said, responsibility must be demanded, because there are great risks here that it is actually a war crime. With regard to the neighbourhood and how to help refugees there, as well as the preparedness for this, it is the same thing. We have talked about it in the past – how do we support inside the country, of course, but also in the neighbourhood? If other countries receive more refugees, the EU must be prepared to support them in the best possible way in order for refugees to have the best possible life in this terrible situation. The EU is therefore prepared to do so, yes.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-417	Mr President, I would like to I should like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply, but nevertheless to stress the importance of the EU upholding international asylum laws, which also give the right to asylum procedures in this crisis situation with new refugees from the Iraqi parts. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question about what the Prime Minister raised. Sweden raised the issue of Nord Stream 2 on the European agenda – where it rightly belongs in view of its climate policy implications and also because of security policy. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if there was anything else to emphasise there. I understand today that there are also competition issues on the table of the European Union with regard to this gas pipeline, and not least the relationship with the Baltic States.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-419	Mr President, I would like to At the meeting I just mentioned that this must be seen in a European perspective. That's the context. Sweden as a country has little opportunity because it is not in our territorial waters. The pipes won't be put there. So it was me and others, such as the Danish Prime Minister, who made the same point. We must simply assume that the Commission actually does this – when there is a concrete project. They do not see any identified, clear project to take a position on, but we will push that Europe actually takes a stand. It can concern competition issues but also environmental issues, energy supply issues, dependence, Ukraine's situation and so on. So there are several perspectives that we believe the EU needs to make an overall assessment of Nord Stream 2 from outside.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-421	Mr President, I would like to Of course, there were no new subjects raised at the European Council. We all know them well, and it feels a bit like repeating themselves: agreements entered into must be kept and fulfilled, and we need a common, clear asylum and migration policy that is solidarity-based and generous. Nevertheless, I have a question to ask in that section, and it concerns the EU-Afghanistan agreement. It is good that we have reception and return agreements, but Afghanistan is, according to Transparency International, the third most corrupt country in the world. How can we ensure that those who come back are actually met according to the human rights commitments we others have to live by? With regard to the trade agreement, it was well this afternoon that we heard Belgium's OK to CETA, and we hope that the continued negotiations will go well. In the light of this, I would like to ask how the discussion went about the other trade agreements. This applies, among other things, to Japan and the United States. Did you bring them up as well, and if so, how are the discussions going? I hope that in all these discussions the Prime Minister is very clear about the importance of increased trade, so that we in Sweden – who have always built our prosperity on exchanges across the borders of the nation and the Union – stand as a clear speaker for the importance of trade agreements between different countries. We know that not everyone in this House feels that the trade agreement is particularly welcome. I therefore hope, and would like to hear, confirmation from the Prime Minister that this is at least a clear line for Sweden.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-425	Mr President, I would like to In the area of migration nothing new, one might say. So what Tina Acketoft says is correct, but we should remember that work is going on with the common system. Let us therefore at least wait and see what comes out of it. As for Afghanistan, we already have the rule for unaccompanied minors that we want to know that there is someone on the other side who receives the young guy or girl. It is up to us to ensure that this is done properly. In fact, in the case of unaccompanied minors from Afghanistan, quite a few do receive a yes to their asylum application. It is a minority that receives no, and then there are factual reasons for it. We have to stand up for that. Those on asylum grounds must be granted asylum, and when there is no reason for asylum, the return must take place in a good order so that, in particular, unaccompanied minors actually have someone on the other side who receives. As far as trade agreements are concerned, the conclusions also mention Japan and the United States. Those discussions are going on. I also believe that I said in the European Council last week that, with regard to the United States, it is not so positive at the moment, both because of what is happening in Europe and because there is a standstill on the American side pending the elections there. But we write in the conclusions that we look forward to the Commission coming back with a broad and far-reaching agreement with the United States. Japan should also be able to cope, preferably before the end of the year. In my introduction, I stressed the importance of trade. That is also why we raised the discussion on trade defence measures. Trade defence measures may sometimes have to be resorted to, but they must always be decided with balance. There I have definitely underlined the Swedish position.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-429	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. It is very important not to lose the positive tone when it comes to trade agreements when we see countries around us and related parties starting to use more and more protectionist tones. I realise that at the last meeting of the European Council I might have been somewhat agitated. That was when I mentioned the importance of the Prime Minister having a high tone in relation to Nord Stream 2. As I understand it, the Prime Minister raised the subject during the negotiations. After all, this meeting was the end, so we do not really know what has been said. But the Prime Minister said that what came out of the meeting was that the EU should consider all the options available. Then the question is: What do the Prime Minister see as available alternatives? I am pleased that the issue is now being raised to European level, but it is also a Swedish issue. Does the Prime Minister see that there are any alternatives available in Sweden that the Prime Minister can use when it comes to stopping Nord Stream 2?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-432	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that there should be a positive tone on trade issues. That's why I, too, had that discussion down there. We have the same opinion there. As far as Nord Stream 2 is concerned, I think there may be a misunderstanding here about the options available. All available options concerned sanctions linked to events in Syria. There we stated that we want to see all the options available. On the basis of the discussion previously held on possible sanctions against Russian actors, there could be no agreement, but we got into the text that the EU had to be prepared to review all available options. It is therefore linked to the question of Syria.
i-HvjDouxQ5fGwMvBYv1znE8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Russia's violation of international law in Crimea, in eastern Ukraine and now also in connection with the bombing of Aleppo in Syria must be sanctioned. It is not only a question of investigating crimes and of punishing the guilty, but also of continuing to make clear what action they want to take. The sanctions shall remain in place with regard to Ukraine, and the possibilities available – or as the Prime Minister put it – for further sanctions or other measures shall be examined in relation to Aleppo. The question is: what other options were discussed alongside sanctions? Was there, as the Prime Minister estimates, a majority in favour of taking other measures or will it also be allowed to...?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-436	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely right about the Russian crimes. During the discussion on possible sanctions, there was no agreement to include the Russian actors associated with this conflict. On the other hand, the wording was: If the atrocities continue, the EU is considering all the options available. It was important for us to bring it in so that it will remain on the table. There should be freedom of action, so then we have to think about what options it could be. It may be a matter of ensuring that those guilty of crime are also held to account, and that may be something else, but that is what we need to think about. Above all, we should think about something that creates unity, because it is of particular importance that we can make unanimous decisions.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-438	Mr President, I would like to So there was no alternative discussion of sanctions by those who were not prepared to reinforce the EU's efforts vis-à-vis Russia? No options were put forward at the table, if I understand the Prime Minister correctly. I also have a question about the discussions on migration. The European Council raised the issue of how to deal with a referendum such as Hungary and the consequences of such a referendum.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-440	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren's description is correct. We did not discuss details of which options could then be considered. This is one of the things that the foreign ministers need to discuss further. But it was important to keep on the table that we have to deal with all available options to see what we can find on which there is agreement. On migration, we did not discuss the referendum in Hungary. We have discussed this issue in the past, and we have stood up for the fact that everyone has to do their thing here. We are now discussing the new system with those who are hesitant but pragmatic, in order to emphasise the need for us to find a common solution. So we're concentrating on that now.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-443	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by asking the Prime Minister about the so-called partnership framework with which the EU intends to sign, starting with five African countries. The Prime Minister said that the purpose is for fewer people to be on the run. I fear that there will be a confusion here with aid funds, that the European Union will simply use aid money to ensure that fewer people flee African countries. This is exactly what Aidwatch today warns against. This morning, I also heard Minister Lövin warn that there is a risk that the EU will use aid as a lever for developing countries to ensure that people cannot escape. In addition, refugees should be made easier to return to their countries.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-447	My second question concerns the agreement with Canada, CETA, which is not at all a simple trade agreement. In CETA there is also a so-called investment protection for companies. That is why the agreement has been so criticised. Parliament in Wallonia is probably the Parliament that has studied most carefully the 1,600 pages covered by the CETA agreement. It is feared that Belgium and other EU countries may be sued by Canadian mining companies, for example, because they want to legislate to protect the environment. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that such lawsuits under the CETA agreement will not take place?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-448	Mr President, I would like to With regard to partnership with African countries, however, I think it must reasonably be good if we can help people on the ground in their own country so that they do not have to flee. If you increase their social security with education and whatever it may be, it is better than having to flee. Sometimes in the debate, it sounds like the most important thing is that people should be forced to flee. I can't see it that way. Those who flee and have asylum reasons should of course have their case examined, and those who have asylum reasons should be allowed to stay and be protected. Those who do not have asylum reasons must return to their country. Of course, the best thing would be if people didn't have to flee. I cannot guarantee exactly how every penny of the EU budget is spent. However, I do not think, as a principle, that they should be used for pressure. But if you help a country, improve opportunities for studying for children and young people and improve opportunities for work, housing and social security, I think that is a good thing. Then we have done something good that means that people do not have to flee. That's my answer. I also got a question about CETA and investment protection. After the agreement was finalised, Canada and the EU signed a joint declaration underlining further that protection does not mean that those investing in an EU country should expect the conditions to always be exactly the same. Political decisions may be taken. I think that is clear, including in the joint declaration. Of course, I cannot guarantee that no company will ever sue any country. But the agreement, I mean, leaves no room to argue that democratic decisions cannot be made. You can, and that's the point. It's important to stand up for it.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-453	Mr President, I would like to When we talk about the agreements with African countries, it is important to keep two things separate. One is aid. It is a question of combating poverty in these countries. Aid should be provided on the basis of the conditions and needs of the poor countries. Now we were told that the Swedish Democrats and Johan Nissinen think that the agreements with the African countries are great, because the purpose is to keep people away. At the same time, Stefan Löfven says that we should not prevent anyone from seeking asylum in the EU. But, Stefan Löfven, what is the point of concluding agreements with countries if people do not even have a chance to flee their country and seek asylum? Many of these countries are, quite frankly, dictatorial and repressive states, such as Ethiopia. Seeking asylum is a human right. I think it is important to separate aid and refugee policy. Doesn't the Prime Minister feel the same?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-456	Mr President, I would like to That's what I said. I do not like the principle of having coercion or threats linked to aid. But we have assistance and help that will enable more people to have a better life, a social security, a place to live and education, and all that is good. It is important to continue with this. As we know, Sweden is a major donor in the international community. We will continue to be. I do not really buy the reasoning that the purpose would be to keep people away. The aim must reasonably be for people to be able to live where they want to live in their home countries. But those who come here seeking asylum must be tried. It is, as Jens Holm emphasises, a human right. We shall stand up for this. However, it is not an end in itself that many should have to flee their countries, but it is good if people can live where they want to live.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-458	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. I intend to associate myself with previous speakers. The issues of migration are extremely important. Carl Bildt used to say, "A shovel is a shovel." It is important that we know what the government is running in Europe. The Council conclusions say that all relevant instruments, including aid, should be used – I even believe that the word is being used – in the countries of origin to stop migratory flows. This morning, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Eko broadcast said that Sweden is pushing the issue that aid should not be conditional. In that case, at least in my ears, this goes against the Council conclusions. She also said that Sweden stands up for aid to be used only in the fight against poverty and that it should be untying and unconditional aid. This therefore drives Sweden in the EU. When I read the Swedish position that the government had brought to the EU Council, there is nothing about the government running this. The Prime Minister will be happy to correct me if I am wrong on this point. My question, therefore, is: Is the government untruthful before the EU Council on what issues it is pushing? The Swedish position merely states that the government emphasises the importance of joint ownership and genuine partnership with these third countries. In addition, in connection with previous questioners, I wonder how the person who still wants to apply for asylum can do so after these agreements have been concluded.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-464	Mr President, I would like to Seeking asylum is, as I said, a human right. If you come here, you can apply for asylum. If you have asylum reasons, you should be allowed to stay, and then these people should be given the best opportunity to establish themselves. If you do not have asylum reasons, you must leave the country. It is our way of standing up for regulated immigration, and I think it is a good order. There is therefore asylum and human rights. The conclusions state a great deal about the importance of return for irregular migrants. We should remember that we are dealing with a business model with totally unscrupulous traffickers, who we must stop. In Niger, for example, we can now see a difference where this has been addressed in a good way. Not everyone is a refugee on grounds of asylum. Some are being used in a terrible way, and we must stop this. It is important, then, to use the tools that exist and are mentioned in the conclusions as the necessary means of pressure. The government, as I have said before, does not want aid to be used as a coercion. It is to create better opportunities for people, and it should be in cooperation with the country to which we are giving the aid. This is what Sweden stands for. You may also need to find other tools. Trade is one of these.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-469	Mr President, I would like to I think we're all against contraband. The question now was whether the aid is actually used conditionally, whether Sweden is saying what it really is and whether the Swedish Government provides the right information to the EU Board. If you come here, you should be able to apply for asylum, says Prime Minister. The only question is how to come here to seek asylum. There's something I still haven't got an answer to. I have one more question, and it concerns the visa waiver for Turkey. We see an extremely serious development in Turkey where human rights are certainly not the focus. I have received information that many oppositionists have been deprived of their passports. What does the Prime Minister intend to do? Is he going to demand that everyone get their passports back before the EU enters into a visa liberalisation agreement with Turkey?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-472	Mr President, I would like to As far as aid is concerned, of course, we are giving the right information to the European Council. The government does not go to the EU Council and lie. I hope that we can keep at least such a level that we believe in it. We stand up for the line that I have just outlined and which has also been expressed by the Deputy Prime Minister. Désirée Pethrus asked how to get here. One thing we have raised on a number of occasions is how to increase the number of quota refugees. Then people will not have to flee across the sea, and we will be able to accept refugees in a much more dignified way. That is why we, together with the United States and other countries earlier this autumn in New York, pushed the demand to increase the number of quota refugees. The decision was that we could double it from 100,000 to 200,000. However, it is important that this is delivered. If this is done, we can accept refugees in a much more humane way, which would be a good way to move forward. As far as visa issues and Turkey are concerned, this is happening according to a special process, and we are also following it.
i-KzW9xfaGB8Yma9wjnotMBo	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the debriefing! Last autumn's refugee situation became something of a historically large and strong stream of refugees. When the smoke had settled, we were able to see that Sweden had received disproportionately many refugees, while other countries had very few. If a common asylum system is to be established, one of the basic requirements is a more even distribution. On this basis, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a few questions. What does he think about the so-called cost model where money is linked to how many people you receive? Is the Prime Minister willing, in budgetary terms, to actively push that it really pays to do the right thing and that it should cost and punish itself to do the wrong thing? So it's a little bit about whips and carrots. I would like to conclude with something that I believe we will be living with for quite a number of years, namely the demographic situation. There are many of us who protect welfare, but it must be understood that all elderly people who exist need to be supported by people who work. This is one of the reasons why the Alliance Government introduced liberal labour immigration legislation on 15 December 2008. Is the Prime Minister willing to push more countries in the EU to go Sweden's way, so that there is not just a discussion about the so-called Blue Card?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-479	Mr President, I would like to In the final part, it is precisely the Blue Card Directive that is being discussed. That's what's on the table. Let's see if it can get to the finish point first! As far as the refugee situation is concerned, we stand up for an even distribution. However, there are currently no legal possibilities to manage budgetary resources in this way and to say that any Member State, for example, should not receive certain funds from the Social Fund. There are no rules for that today. However, I've made it clear that you can't go into an organization just to take the easy, easy and fun. You actually get to be on both sides. A proposal has now been discussed by the Commission. Let's see how far it gets. In some way, we must ensure that everyone accepts their responsibilities. Some talk about so-called flexible responsibility. That is not something I support, because it can mean anything. I think that all countries should take their responsibility to accept. It's the basics. Then, in the end, we will see what system we can come up with. But if any country says no, we don't accept, it can't just be like that. We cannot do that, but we must all contribute in some way.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-482	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I take it a little bit that the Prime Minister is still willing to bring this into the budgetary context in order to have an economic carrot. I've been dealing with migration issues for ten years. The first time I had a speech here, I think I said that there must be a difference between a yes and a no. Then I was quite alone, but now I have to say that there are more people who say that. This is somehow the weak link. Those in need of protection should be protected, while those who do not have that need must leave the country. This is very complicated, both for the Migration Agency and not least for the police. Even in matters such as police are reasonably easy when it comes to obtaining identity and so on, it is very difficult to carry out the actual disclosure to another country. We have dealt with readmission agreements a little bit, but I would still like the Prime Minister to specify a little more how hard he wants to push the issue of readmission agreements. I'd like to say one more thing in a flash. As far as labour immigration is concerned, it is very important that this is not mandatory, because then the Swedish legislation becomes...
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-485	Mr President, I would like to As far as budgetary issues are concerned, as I said, I can think of something like that for the future. Today, however, there is no such regulatory framework. There is no such possibility. I think you should look at it. However, before this is in place, we need to see what can be done to ensure that everyone takes on their responsibilities within the framework of the common migration policy and that policy. The question of yes and no is important. It was not discussed that it could work in any other way. You have the right to seek asylum. If you have grounds for asylum, reasons for protection, you should be allowed to stay. If you don't, you should go back. That's how it's always worked. I think it is important to stand up for it, because then you can say that the people who actually need help should have help.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-487	Mr President, I would like to There was a lot of Russia at the meeting, and that's natural. In addition to what is currently happening in Syria, we see increased Russian activity also close to our border. We can assume that will be the normal state if, for example, Nord Stream 2 should become a reality. The Prime Minister has said two things before. One is that this is an issue on which he looks with concern and which is to be resolved at European level. The second is that ten countries made their position known on Nord Stream 2; the Prime Minister said that this does not stand and fall with a letter, that is not where it is solved. I still think that the Prime Minister probably does not believe that it is through an informal dinner discussion that the issue is resolved. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what steps he is now taking to continue to put the Nord Stream 2 issue on the table. Since the idea is that Swedish ports should be used for this project and that the pipes should be located on Swedish soil, Sweden has a certain responsibility to raise this issue at EU level.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-490	Mr President, I would like to We have raised the issue. We're already running it. We have told the Commission that we want this to be examined from a European perspective on the basis of the issues I mentioned earlier: energy supply, dependence, environmental issues of course, competition issues, Ukraine and so on. So it's already there. What the Commission needs is a project to consider. That is about where the discussion has come from in the Commission. They don't see any identified project yet. But this is our position, which we have expressed very clearly. We must comply with international law and Swedish law. The pipes should not be drawn on Swedish territorial waters, and therefore our possibilities are limited. That is why the discussion should be conducted from a European perspective. We will then deal with our own security issues and what happens in our ports. However, we are not yet there. We do not know exactly how this is to be done. Of course, we will keep an eye on it. It is not an issue that is being discussed in the European Union; it is our own question.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-493	Mr President, I would like to I take the view then that the Prime Minister considers that he is done putting this issue on the EU's agenda. Is that clear? Will we not see any further initiatives? For example, it would be desirable to discuss with other countries who are also concerned about this project and to coordinate their positions in order to pursue a common line in the EU. But it sounds to the Prime Minister that he feels ready to put the issue on the agenda and that it is the Commission that will then have to resolve this. I would like to have made that clear.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-494	Mr President, I would like to What I'm saying is that the question is already up. When I have a question as to whether we are going to raise it, I will reply that it is already on the agenda and that it is we who have taken it there with several others. Then, of course, one must lie on and hear what assessments are made and how the work is carried out. It is our duty to do so, and that is exactly what is going on. Since it is not in our territorial waters, our possibilities are limited if we are to comply with international and Swedish law, which we shall. Then it is important to have this European perspective, and that is why we have brought the issue there.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-496	Mr President, I would like to As a follow-up to the discussion on the gas pipeline, I have two questions for the Prime Minister. In the description, it is interesting to know whether the fact that the issue is brought up to the Commission means that it hopes that the Commission will resolve the issue. The first question is: what did the Prime Minister hear from other prime ministers for our wish that this gas pipeline should not happen? The second question is: what is the next step in our relationship with the Commission, and what will we do to get the Commission to act?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-497	Mr President, I would like to Several countries are concerned about the management. But there are only a few countries whose territorial waters are affected: Russia, Denmark and Germany. That's why everyone sees this need. Those who do not want this project express it very clearly. We want that discussion in the Commission. It's right there. But what the Commission is also saying is that we have to see what projects they really are, and they do not have that on the table. Nevertheless, we think that the discussion should be conducted now, because we can already begin to discuss everything from competition issues to dependence. It's about there. We will, of course, follow the matter and lie on the Commission to get an assessment from them from the perspectives I mentioned earlier.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-498	Mr President, I would like to The following question will then be: if we are to move forward in order to put an end to this leadership, what reactions has the Prime Minister received in his bilateral discussions with Germany?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-499	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I have to say that there are already pipes there. Nord Stream 1 was created during the period of the previous government. Then it was okay. We are addressing the issue both bilaterally and multilaterally. From Germany it has been designated as an energy project anyhow. This has also been expressed. There is certainly also a reflection on how it is linked, not least, to the objectives of the Energy Union. There are slightly different opinions about the project. That is why we want the Commission to look at it in its entirety.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-501	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with the Prime Minister on the need for free trade. This is crucial for Sweden's future prosperity and well-being, but also for combating poverty worldwide. That is why it is worrying that we are seeing a global trend towards increased protectionism. That protectionism is usually more subtle than it has historically been. It is usually hidden in falsaries that free trade agreements would limit the possibility of offensive environmental legislation or that it would mean that companies could arbitrarily sue nations for decisions taken democratically when in fact it is a matter of a reasonable regulatory framework for those who break agreements to compensate. We heard that kind of criticism with hidden protectionism from the Left Party representative here just 20 minutes ago. It is gratifying that the Prime Minister is taking a stand against it. We agree on the direction of increased free trade. During the meeting of the EU Board last week, we agreed that there were certain ambiguities in the Council drafts for the summit. It was mentioned that the regulatory framework on trade defence instruments needs to be modernised. The ambiguity in this is, at least on the part of the Moderates, a concern that this will lead to increased levels of protectionism. I would really just like to ask the Prime Minister whether he believes he has succeeded in clarifying those Council conclusions.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-504	Mr President, I would like to We share opinions there. However, I would not like to be so unambiguous. There is sometimes reason to have a debate about there are things in trade agreements that we should improve. I do not want to say that all trade agreements are perfect. I don't think you should just sweep it away. There's a worry somewhere out here in the world. It's quite obvious. I think that protectionism goes too far. Nevertheless, it may be a good thing that we are having a debate on trade agreements. I stand up for CETA, which I think is a very good trade agreement. But there are probably others who may not be as good. As far as the instruments are concerned, it was precisely the discussion we raised and which I initiated. We must have a wording that is balanced so that we do not have an escalation of protective measures. Then, on the one hand, we sit and discuss free trade agreements with Canada, the United States and Japan and, on the other hand, we discuss how to protect ourselves against all this. It's gonna be wrong. That is why we got rid of the text, which unfortunately I do not have in my head. It was the text which, among other things, the Moderates raised and which was contained in the draft conclusions. It's gone. It is precisely for that reason that I raised the discussion and received the support of several. We took that initiative, and we were successful.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-508	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for that effort. That is very positive news. I would perhaps add that it is clear that there is always something positive about improving all kinds of agreements and that there is a constructive discussion about it. What I and several of us are opposed to are the direct falsaries that are being heard from, for example, the Left Party representatives here just 20 minutes ago and from quite large parts of the extreme left around Europe and also from parts of the environmental movement. I thank the Prime Minister very much for achieving positive results in this respect. Sweden is pursuing a very free trade-oriented line, whether it is a moderate or Social Democratic Prime Minister.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-511	Mr President, I would like to There's a consensus, and that's a good thing. I will make it clear, and I have said it down there, that there may be a need for protective measures. It's not that there's never a need. There may be a need. But they must be balanced so that we do not have an escalation. There are times when it may be necessary, but I think we have basically the same view as it is.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-512	Mr President, I would like to First of all, why should Fredrik Schulte take my question? I'll try to develop it a little bit. Unfortunately, the internal market is very often safeguarded. All the countries of the European Union do so. They believe that the internal market is one of the strongest reasons for being a member of the EU at all. It is often highlighted that one may be dissatisfied with one or the other regulatory framework. But the single market is still to be maintained and it is to be safeguarded. It will then be very strange when more and more countries at the meeting table and also alongside the meeting table at EU level now mention that they must protect their market and have safeguards. The latest example to which we here, with the exception of any party, definitely said no was that milk should be supported. That was something we agreed on, which is very good. That's worrying. This discussion is taking place on trade policy both externally and on the free market, and we all know that. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: how are these discussions conducted? I think they are carried on a slightly different basis. It has become opportune to lift this. How are these reasonings taken up at European Councils?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-516	Mr President, I would like to There is a tendency in some Member States to talk more about safeguard measures to make free trade unpleasant. I gave an example. For example, there are some steel tariffs that are raised to protect themselves against China's overcapacity. As a result, there was an increase in imports from Russia. Maybe that's not really the point. That is why it is so important to think about the measures in order to have the right effect. Some companies also import these products. You can protect a particular company that manufactures the same product. But others may import it. They'll be affected by higher costs. The discussion that Börje Vestlund is asking about concerns the balance. There is talk, on the one hand, of the importance of free trade agreements, and, on the other hand, there is a tendency to want to protect. Maybe I shouldn't speculate too much about it. There is concern in people. What is happening in a global economy? Is our company going to break down? Are the jobs gone? That is why I am clear in the European context that we need a socially strong Europe that is managing a transition. Today, nine out of ten unemployed people do not get training and help back into a new job. If you're going to have that order, people are going to hit your heels. That's what I think we're seeing now. It is the concern of people who are being written off by the political representatives who want more protection measures. It would be better to ensure that we have education and social protection that enables people to cope with a change that may be absolutely necessary.
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-522	Mr President, I would like to That's where I think we agree, Prime Minister and I. We had solar cells in the last parliamentary term that we were nagging about and that we wanted to have protective tariffs – which are, of course, sanctions – in some places. I think I was once in a position to impose a sanction on ring binders, whatever that meant. But strangely, life can appear in the European context. I would like to ask you a question about CETA. It is gratifying that Belgium will now be able to sign it because its three states have said yes. Nevertheless, this means that it will take a long time to get it in place, even though the CETA agreement may be provisionally applied for the whole of Europe. Will this mean that we will now immediately start the legislative process in Sweden?
i-5ed43f9dfba7b7e5-525	Mr President, I would like to We have no reason to delay anything. When there are the possibilities, and it is clear, we naturally want to start work as soon as possible.
