i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-4	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal on appropriations for Category 4. We in the Social Democrats also agree with the reservations we have with the Green Party and the Left Party, but for time to come I only call for reservation 13. Mr President, I would like to The committee's expenditure area includes an allocation of 42.5 billion. More than half of that money goes to the police department. It is therefore no wonder that half of the committee's report concerns that authority, how it is organised and what is to be prioritised. We, all parties, are behind the reorganisation that was decided by the Riksdag and that entered into force on 1 January 2015. It is important to emphasise this. The government, but also we in the committee, have followed the transformation with great interest. The police's ability to live up to their mission is the foundation of people's security. Sweden is a safe country to live in, but there are areas around Sweden that are more marked than others by crime and insecurity. We cannot allow a society where insecurity is allowed to take root. It undermines trust between people, but it also undermines the foundation of the Swedish social model. We know that unemployment affects criminal development. We know that overcrowding and lack of education provide greater incentives to seek out circles where crime is a part of everyday life. Sweden should be a country in work and cohesion. Through broad and long-term measures, the government is investing in building a stronger society, in which the judiciary, together with other actors, take responsibility for giving people a safer life. Mr President, I would like to Cooperation is the key to a safer society. There is no possibility for the police or any other actor to face the challenge of society themselves – it is organised crime that is cross-border or takes possession of certain areas and a daily life where fraud crimes are increasing sharply or where violence and threats are spreading. In the work against organised crime, the cooperation between twelve authorities decided upon by the Government – and in which, based on the Government's proposal, we have been able to provide more tools to our authorities – is one of the most effective ways of achieving the goal of reducing crime. We hear about daily examples of that. However, there is more to be done before we feel that the police organisation supported by the Riksdag is fully functioning. Above all, it rests on the authority to carry out the reorganisation. But a united committee has highlighted the importance of more police officers closer to the citizens. This applies to both municipal police officers, who have overall contact with municipalities, civil society and crime prevention, and the district police, who are responsible for contact-building and security-building work towards citizens and who must be closest to the citizens. There is no disagreement here either with the government or with the police. However, in order to create the conditions for this, it is important, among other things, to streamline the police's tasks. Therefore, it is particularly gratifying that the issue of the police's hands-on vis-à-vis other authorities, the transport of detainees, has been with the Law Council. This is expected to result in a bill in the near future. On this particular issue, in 2013, I intervened with the then Minister of Justice, Beatrice Ask. But the most important thing, Mr President, is that there are no crimes. That's why crime prevention is incredibly important. It is one of the government's priorities. I know there's a lot of work going on around the country. But I also know, after visiting all the municipalities in my county, that they need advice and support. It is important to disseminate knowledge, develop methodological support and work to prevent relapses for those who once committed a crime. The Crime Prevention Council has a central national role. But when it comes to supporting municipalities around the country, it is very positive that money is allocated to coordinate locally and regionally through county boards. The last part I would like to touch on concerns the reservations we have in the report. It may seem strange to reserve for crimes against the elderly and fraud. Both of these areas are very important. But to announce something to the government that is already happening or is about to happen is to break open doors. In the case of offences against the elderly, there is a national model of crime coordination that the Police Authority itself has decided on. There the police identify patterns in procedures and compare tracks to access serial crime. There is cooperation between PRO, SPF and the national fraud centre. Region West has a special assignment once the crime has occurred, through the Circa Group, which also has a national responsibility for coordinating serial crimes. The work includes identifying suspected offenders, initiating coordination of crimes and cases, investigating crimes, providing methodological and operational support to other investigation teams but also working preventively. There is much more to do to prevent crimes against the elderly or anyone else from happening, but we know there is work going on. With regard to fraud offences, we agree with the view of the majority that the work is important and needs to be strengthened. Crimes have increased in number, including as a consequence of technological developments. It has become easier to order goods in the name of others via the Internet but also to trick people into giving out their information. There has been an improvement in the judicial work on fraud, largely thanks to the National Fraud Centre, where knowledge and methodology development can be coordinated, as requested, among other things, by Mrs Brå. The report by Mr Brå is currently being prepared by the government. We also see that the issues raised by the majority are already being addressed.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-16	Mr President, I would like to We will have a long and exciting debate about one of the biggest challenges we now have in Swedish society. It is a question of restoring a functioning judicial system. We will discuss developments a little more closely later in the debate. But I was going to take this opportunity to ask Helene Petersson about the announcements regarding the elderly. There's two of them today. You have realised that one is quite right and difficult to reserve against. But I'm still surprised that you don't think crimes against the elderly should be given priority. We see increasingly organized gangs penetrating the elderly. They're pulling their way in. They say that they are relatives or are tricked in other ways to access valuables, cash, and jewelry — things of great value. This often results in a major trauma for the elderly. It is not only about what they have lost but also about the insecurity they feel after that. Unfortunately, many times this means that they cannot remain in their home in the same way as before. It's serious. That is why we want to see measures. Now Helene Petersson has put the text a little bit in the speaker's chair. But we have read the reservation with some surprise. It refers in itself to good cooperation with pensioners' organisations. However, pensioners' organisations and the elderly themselves are left with the responsibility to take preventive measures. We should be well aware that this information will not reach all older people. Nor can it be that the elderly should always bear this responsibility themselves. Similarly, reference is made to id-jacking. But just skim a little bit on the surface of the problem. Therefore, despite the list that exists, I must ask Helene Petersson: Why do you not take these crimes seriously? How many of these crimes have led to a conviction? How many times have investigations been closed at an early stage?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-20	Mr President, I would like to As Krister Hammarbergh himself begins by saying, I mentioned this in my speech, because I think it is an incredibly important area. This is one of the areas where we think it should be further worked on. But I also say that it is already being done. Region West has a special assignment. The police have a special assignment about working with crimes against the elderly. That you mention that PRO and SPF together with the National Fraud Centre also have a preventive mission, I think is great. Pensioners' organisations are, in fact, those that reach the vast majority, not just their own members, but have a contact area among pensioners who can act as a preventive agent. The best thing is that the crime does not happen, because it is once the crime has taken place that insecurity comes. It is important that you as an elderly person can be informed and get more knowledge about what you can do when the phone rings and someone wants you to buy something or give out your card details. This is the crime that increases the most. We have very many burglaries as well as purely physical crimes against the elderly, but it is the fraud side that is increasing most, and so I think it is very good that they are doing this work. In my speech, I mentioned very carefully that there is work going on, and we do not therefore see that an announcement in this area would be necessary.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-25	Mr President, I would like to Helene Petersson says that this is the type of crime that is increasing the most, and therefore she reserves the right to oppose the Riksdag's announcement that these particular crimes should be prioritised. It doesn't really make sense. I will ask my last question one more time: how much of these crimes – which are increasing most – against our vulnerable elderly people lead to an investigation that in turn leads to a conviction? How much of these crimes are investigated, and how much is closed without action? This must be a priority, and that is basically the reason for our announcement. I have every respect for the good work of our pensioners' organisations. My mother is happy to participate in this. But I am also well aware that not all older people are reached, and I think Helene Petersson is. Many times the elderly are not reached – the elderly who are not even included in the statistics, which we are now going to try to address through a decision today. It is not enough to stand and speak in the Parliament's pulpit. The government must also take matters seriously, both by pushing forward the legislation that is needed after our orders and by using regulatory letters to govern our authorities. I'm going to have to stop talking right now. Now something's going to be done!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-31	Mr President, I would like to We believe that a great deal is being done. Preventive work is part of it, but it is also about the fact that the Police Authority actually has a special task. We have set up a fraud centre which is also responsible for ensuring this. It is not just a question of crimes against the elderly, it is a matter of all fraud. Nationally, Region West has a special task in relation to crimes against the elderly. I do not want to say, therefore, that the whole work is left to PRO, but I believe that PRO and the other pensioners' organisations are good actors in terms of prevention. For example, the police work preventively in municipalities with neighbourly cooperation and with citizens' promises. There are many municipalities that have raised both crimes against the elderly and everyday crimes such as theft and housing offences in their citizens' promises. Then older people will also be included. I see a great deal of work is being done on this. There can certainly be more: You have to identify the perpetrators, you have to see if there are serial crimes and you have to work on DNA labelling. There are many different parts you can continue to work with. Crime against the elderly is a priority area and work is therefore ongoing. I believe that an announcement is appropriate when one sees that something needs to be done that is not done.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-36	Mr President, I would like to I think it is commendable to talk about more police officers. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have been talking about for a long time and which is very necessary. More police officers are promised to work closer to the citizens. More district police are being promised. More police officers are promised in the countryside. More policemen are promised a little everywhere. One problem, however, is that the police themselves feel that they are far too few in number to cope with being just closer to the citizens, closer to the countryside, closer to all the social problems for which the government is almost responsible. This, of course, stems from the inadequate efforts of the Red-Green Government to train police officers in these years. I would therefore like to ask: can we now get a little recognition from the government parties that the effort to train more policemen has been far too sparse? I would also like to ask: does the government not think that, as the Swedish Democrats have proposed, up to 7 000 new police officers are needed to cope with the task facing the Police Authority?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-41	Mr President, I would like to Of course, there is a need for more police officers, and so has the Police Authority itself. A target of at least 21 500 police officers has been set by 2020. Therefore, the number of places in education has also been increased. According to the forecasts we have now, 660 students will start this spring and 570 will start this autumn. That's an increasing number. This spring it is almost a doubling; normally the number has been over 300 to keep the level we have today. Of course, both the police authorities, the government and the government parties are very aware that more police are needed. But let us not forget that we also have other commitments. We have made a reorganisation in which we say that we want more policemen closer to the citizens. This is a work that's going on. I can read in the newspaper on different occasions that the municipalities are added to more police. It has been concluded that almost all municipalities, in fact everyone, I think, have municipal police. However, some municipalities share this task, and it may well be discussed whether it can be extended so that each municipality gets its own municipal police. We absolutely agree that more police are needed. But the police have different missions.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-45	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely no secret that we have quite different views on how many police officers are needed in our country to cope with what citizens expect from the Police Authority. When we talk about perhaps there are district policemen in all municipalities, we also want to design it so that these police officers should not have missions for the public, but should be stationed in the areas more permanently, precisely in order to do what is so important – to get closer to the citizens. The fact is that the district police may be out in the affected areas today, but when a call is required, they must leave and leave the area. We therefore call for a more present police officer than the government does, and that also requires more police officers in number. I had a little fun watching last year's debate. At that time, Helene Petersson was in the speaker's chair against my colleague Kent Ekeroth and criticised the Swedish Democrats for the fact that we had so much focus on the need for more police officers and that we have too little policy in this area when it comes to penitentiary care. I would like to point out that the government has had a lot of focus on those who commit a crime and how to make life easier for them instead of actually focusing on what is our committee's most important task, namely to ensure that there are enough police officers to deal with the mission that exists. Then I will return to my first question. Does the government realise that far too little effort has been made on the police in view of the situation that has arisen over the last two years in particular?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-51	Mr President, I would like to Now I can't ask Adam Marttinen a question because it just gets rhetorical. The district police and local police have a specific mission. It is true, as Adam Marttinen says, that it happens that the district police are allowed to engage in intervention activities in the event of illness or when people are lacking. But the clear task they have been given in the reorganisation is that they should work preventively. I was with the district police in one of my municipalities all Monday and far into the evening. We were out in the neighborhoods. The police are well aware of the people who are there. You circulate in the area and see if they're home, if their cars are home. You visit the recreation centre and discuss and talk with the leisure leaders and young people. You get many tips and ideas about what precedes, how much drugs are feared to be there and what leisure leaders see. The district police are doing preventive work. I said last year that the difference between us is that we want to prevent a crime. We do not want crime to happen at all. This is why cooperation and prevention are so important. We don't think it'll get any better with a lot of fighting and confrontation. That is why the stationing of district police officers in the areas is very important.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-55	Mr President, I would like to Helene Petersson spoke not only about police but also about preventive work. It's very important. I was pleased that the Social Democrats raised the issue. There are a few points on which I reacted, including that there should be no contradiction between the opposition and the government parties about the level of ambition. That's not true. I'll get back to that when I'm going to go over our numbers. This is, of course, also a budget debate for the 2017 activities. My question concerns precisely the prevention of crime, both local crime prevention and local crime prevention against extremism and radicalisation. Both parts are addressed in the committee's considerations and analysis under the criminal policy objectives that important parts to work with. Where in this budget, Helene Petersson, can I find concrete investments in local crime prevention?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-59	Mr President, I would like to Among other things, Brå has a national assignment. We also spend extra money on the county boards to get a local and regional collaboration. When it comes to crime prevention, municipalities have a responsibility. The municipalities also work with their responsibilities. It is not just a police responsibility, it is also a matter of social services, leisure and technical activities. It's about everyone who's dealing with the municipality. It also applies to civil society and the sports movement. Everyone in a society must work together with the crime prevention. I also see the small municipalities around me. Jönköping is considerably larger, but the rest of the municipalities are small. They can't do the work on their own. When I have visited Mullsjö, they have said that they do not have the capacity but that they have to interact with Jönköping. They must receive methodological support from Jönköping Municipality and learn from each other. That is why I believe that the efforts that we are making on county boards' coordination opportunities are important. The municipalities need to train their staff. They have to look at the crime prevention work with many eyes in order for it to be good.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-63	Mr President, I would like to Liberals oppose the Government's proposal for a national coordinator and regional coordinators. We do not think there is a need for more bureaucrats, and we are allocating more money in the budget for local crime prevention. We would have preferred to have seen this money go to local operations and projects, not more administrators on the county boards. Nor is it true that there is a commission in the Municipal Act for municipalities to work crime prevention. The Liberals proposed in June that the undertaking – the requirement – be entered. It is highly voluntary in many municipalities to want and feel that this work is important. This is why it is all the more urgent that the state and the government, through the police and other authorities, support the municipalities or authorities – not least the police – so that they can work to prevent crime. The most common thing that police officers bring to me, whether they are in southern, central or northern Sweden, is that they do not have time for the crime prevention work. That's why I'm surprised the government is making such a big deal out of it. That is very good, but unfortunately it is not reflected in the budget.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-66	Mr President, I would like to I don't think we need to call a person working to coordinate the crime prevention work at the county administrative board a bureaucrat. I pointed out in my speech and in my reply that the many municipalities in which I have been out to discuss these issues are asking for help with staff training. The municipalities can't do that on their own. They must be given greater opportunities for education. Then it may be good that there is a coordinator at the county administrative board who arranges the courses. The municipalities need help with methodological support. It may be that small Aneby municipality with 6,000 inhabitants cannot fix this itself – regardless of whether the municipality receives a small grant. I calculated that with the money that the Liberals would deposit, my municipality would receive about 30,000. This does not go far in terms of training, methodological support and collaboration. In the prevention of crime, municipalities must work together. At least in the highlands of Småland, it may be that someone makes one, drives into one municipality, commits thefts and burglaries, and then goes around in the other municipalities. In neighbourly cooperation, the police are present with and above all the municipality. The vows of citizens highlight the prevention of crime. The municipalities are working on these issues, but there is a need for good coordination.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-70	Mr President, I would like to I would ask you to accept reservations 1 and 10. For time winning, I don't ask for more reservations, even if there's a lot of them. Mr President, I would like to We are facing a major challenge next year. Will the trend in the judiciary reverse? The budget covers the whole of the judiciary from police to penitentiary. I have experienced years of problems with the funding of the prosecutor's service and the Prison Service, partly because there was a lot to do at the time and very little time. Today, the situation is different. The D.A. has some work to do. The correctional services have empty seats. This is because the outermost chain, the ultimate security, the police, today has great concerns. This is partly due to a reorganisation which, of course, has taken time and resources. It has been expected, and it is a reorganisation that everyone has been in favour of. However, this does not necessarily mean that we are in favour of implementation. Nor is it possible to blame everything that today only hurts on the reorganisation. It is a crucial year, Mr President. Today we meet citizens who feel that the police are absent. You call. Nobody's coming. We can see that the results of the investigation are falling dramatically. As late as October, we last saw it. They've never been this low in the time you've measured. We have Social Democratic councillors from north to south who court the government by law and ask why it does not take any action. We have empty training places, not because there is a shortage of applicants, but because there is a fundamental system error. You can't blame that on a reorganisation. A lot of investigative crimes are not investigated. It was a matter of previous property crimes, but apparently it is becoming increasingly common for violent crimes. It is serious because it sends strong signals to the citizens that society is no longer taking this seriously. We have disgruntled police officers. For the first time in history, we have police officers who actively seek their way out of the police organization. While we had earlier rather too low staff turnover, it is now becoming too high. We have an inherent conflict in the Police Federation, not least in terms of wage levels. Civil servants are being brought in today. It's positive and good. They're needed. There does not need to be a conflict between the professions, but when wages are significantly lower for one group, this naturally leads to damage in the organisation. According to SCB, for the first time since measuring properly, public confidence in the police is declining. Since the introduction of the NTU surveys in 2006, confidence has increased steadily every year. We must hope that this will also be the case in the NTU survey next year, but there is a worrying trend. So we've seen a trend break. Trust in the organization as well as the public's confidence in the organization and its performance is declining. All of this has taken place dramatically over the last two years. To this we must ensure that there are resources. In the face of the reorganisation, it was pointed out that there was a need for quite a lot of money. It did not take this government very seriously. There is now a budget for next year that is clearly underfunded. It's based on saved money. The increase in funding of 100 million in the budget is due to the fact that there are 700 million in previously saved money. We will see what the outcome will be this year, but obviously the police organization will be living on credit quite soon. This year's appropriations have been spent, and what is left is what is saved from the good old years. A realistic question to the government is how to make sure to fill this up, because soon the police will go on grant credits. It remains to be seen. We're prioritising the police. We realize that we have to do it resource-wise – from the Moderates' side with about 1.1 billion. The new policemen who come to us must be financed. The new civil servants who are already employed must, of course, be financed. We need equipment. We need to adjust the wage level, and we realise that the police organisation itself, within the framework that it has, cannot manage this alone. We are not going to poke in the wage movement, but we must make sure that the framework is adjusted. If you don't, you won't be able to correct this slant. Otherwise, the quake won't go away. We must give priority to the modern crimes of the new era, the cybercrimes, far more than before. For that, resources are needed. We must ensure that our task force is able to move so that it can act against terrorist crimes in several places. We have relatively short speaking time in this budget debate. At least we can see that there will be another eight announcements. It's a new record. With today's vote, the government has in two years come up in 66 announcements – a record in itself. The committee has some work to do. These are mostly motion reports and relatively few proposals. Half of the meetings may be cancelled. This in itself is not a problem for the Committee on Justice, but it is a problem that there is a lot of talk and little work being done. In our view and according to the form of government, the government must actually start to rule. When an authority does not function, it must be governed and the resources needed to carry out its activities must be provided. Mr President, I would like to We are facing a turning point. We must reverse developments now, and we must restore confidence. We will do what we can on the part of Parliament, but now the government must play along.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-92	Mr President, I would like to Throughout Krister Hammarbergh's speech, I waited to explain to me how the Moderates think when they talk about better crime resolution and at the same time cut it down. 34 million – that's what the Moderates cut down on legal assistants. Money going to public defenders and plaintiffs' assistants is being wiped out. The counsel is the victim's support in the legal process, and early and good support from a competent lawyer increases the likelihood that the guilty person will be convicted of the crime. Investigation after investigation and report after report shows that if we want to have more rapists convicted for their crimes, the efforts of the plaintiffs' assistants at an early stage in the process are what is needed. It's important. Recently, the sex crime committee stated that it would cost SEK 14 million to achieve this result. The cuts made by the Moderates are more than twice as great as that, Mr President. How does Krister Hammarbergh explain these cuts? I can see no other explanation than that it is a matter of prioritising populist rhetoric rather than doing what would really make a difference in getting more criminals convicted of crime.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-96	Mr President, I would like to It's almost like you get quiet. So here we want to invest in those who investigate crimes so that they can go to a prosecutor at all and so that a prosecutor can go to a court and bring the guilty person to justice. We are investing 1.1 billion in this. But apparently the Green Party's entry into this is that this is to be solved with legal assistants. Yes, legal counsels are important, but that is not where the problem is today. That is not why preliminary investigations are closed without action. We need to focus on the problems, and we need to take people's concerns seriously. We will ensure that sufficient resources are available for legal counsels. We've been pushing those questions. During the reign, we expanded those opportunities. But now focus on the right problem, Annika Hirvonen Falk! The problem is that investigations are closed.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-99	Mr President, I would like to There are many challenges in the judicial system. One of them is that too few rapists are convicted of their crimes. That is a problem that we have looked at carefully. The prosecutors have looked at d et. The police have looked at it. The exual criminal investigation has looked at it. What has been pointed out as a concrete, effective solution is to ensure that there are sufficient resources available for the plaintiffs to be appointed early in the process. It's not happening today. This does not happen despite today's regulations and even though the Riksdag has said that that is the intention. One problem is the lack of resources. More money is needed. Why are the Moderates cutting down exactly the budget line that would make a difference in getting more sex offenders convicted of their crimes? It is because, at best, plaintiffs are present early in the process, during the preliminary investigation, and that is precisely what matters. This is what makes the victim feel more secure and provides a better basis for police investigation. Lawyers who are competent and come in early can also influence the investigation so that you pull relevant threads and maybe find just what will make a difference if you can go to court and prosecute and for if the court has sufficient evidence to judge for these crimes. I share Krister Hammarbergh's view that there are many challenges; the police are one of them. But these cuts are irresponsible if we want to clear up more crimes.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-105	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to say the right name, Annika Hirvonen. You've been involved in the investigation of sexual crimes, and I'm not sure that anyone who's involved in that investigation would have made the speech we've heard. You've obviously come to the conclusion that the investigations are too bad. This can reasonably be solved by ensuring that those investigating crimes, the police, are better at it and by investing resources in it. Otherwise, we will not have any more convictions. Legal counsels are important, but they do not lead preliminary investigations. They're not the ones who produce evidence. They're the police. I understand, Mr President, that it is a matter of finding some kind of point of attack, but now that we have a problem with closed investigations, the attempt to attack us for a small cut of 35 million out of a very large grant is actually quite funny. Of course, my opponent would have been able to figure out how many per mille it is, but what she forgets to say is that she herself does not want to invest in the police – precisely those who are going to investigate this type of crime.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-108	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates say in a motion that you want more policemen on duty, and that is why police officers should be hired part-time. Thus, according to the Moderates, trained police officers are required to work part-time in order to be able to engage in emergency situations. This makes me a little surprised and confused, but it also shows what the Moderates think the police are: a patrolling security guard who will come when something emergency happens. Right now, the police have a major investigation deficit. There is a lack of investigators who can handle all reports. We know that the courts testify to this; there are fewer cases. This raises many questions about what the Moderates believe to be the exercise of authority. I thought in my wild imagination that the Moderates wanted all police officers to work full time in the agency and not to come in and work a little sometimes. How do the Moderates expect these police officers to be able to access, for example, intelligence information? How do the Moderates expect the police to be able to work with investigations if you work part-time? And if it's retired cops coming in a little from time to time, I wonder how the Moderates view the extremely heavy workload they're going to face. You write that you should be able to put these part-time policemen in at events like the Husby riots. How do you expect retired police officers, who have an extremely long and educational working life behind them, to be deployed when there is a stone-throwing and violence? Is that what the Moderates think people over 65 years of age are doing? Out hunting kids. Why should they do that?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-112	Mr President, I would like to It's good that Linda Snecker brings this up. If you had read the exercise carefully, you would have seen that we have not said to do this; we have said that there is reason to look at this. I would like to develop the idea for more than two minutes if it was possible. I would like to invite you to Norrbotten sometime so you will see what reality for many people looks like in Sweden's sparsely built parts. There, a police call can take three to four hours, and people feel a great deal of insecurity. Crimes are being committed there, too. There was an ax murder in Arvidsjaur not long ago, and it took a long time before the police were there. Municipal politicians in Jämtland have courted the government and also discussed with the Alliance. They themselves are in favour of this idea, because they have seen that civil protection actually works. They even have call times, and you know pretty well when emergency services come. It may not be a solution, but it is well worth looking at. We find it difficult to man in sparsely populated areas, and even those living in such areas have the right of access to police. We have driven an attempt at a solution in the border regions through cooperation between the countries, but we cannot do that everywhere. Therefore, this is well worth looking at. We've had a discussion about the emergency services that were shut down. It was organized in a way that never made it available. This is one way of trying to ensure that you still get a locally-based police – at least some kind of resource – when it's sniping and people actually need help. That's the point of departure. Then I don't think you should take down older police officers with long experience. It may be that, thanks to their experience and authority, they can calm the mood in difficult situations. We noticed this not least when the committee was in Holland – police officers with both a round stomach and a long life experience ensured that there was a calmness in the residential areas. So don't underestimate the older policemen!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-118	Mr President, I would like to I live in Östergötland, and I can promise you, Krister Hammarbergh, that even in Ydre it is far too far to the police. The only thing you attacked me for was that I ran down on retired cops because I don't think the best job for them is to work with stone-throwers. You in the Moderates need to think this through a little more. You now want these pensioners to stay longer in the agency as part-time employees, which is remarkable if they are able – absolutely. But this is already regulated in the ATA contract of employment for the police. Do you want to break ATA politically in the Moderates? Why? What other cooperation agreements and time agreements for our authorities do you want to break politically? Is this the Moderate plan for Sweden – to go in and break different working hours agreements? And which other government officials believe the Moderates should work part-time? Should government employees be on standby in some different government agencies? Should the Migration Agency's administrator be on standby and have an agreement or be able to be admitted at any time? Are there other services in the judicial system that are supposed to be on standby? I am very curious about your policy, because the motion says very briefly about this; you have not developed it. I would like a proper response from the Moderates. How do you plead with the ATA for the police? What about the workload of pensioners? Is that where they can be used best? If this is the Moderate plan for Sweden, you will probably have to go back to the Party Office and rework it a little.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-122	Mr President, I would like to It's a matter of not seeing the possibilities-- it sounds almost like a bureaucratic confession. The aim is to get a more present police officer. It is not based on breaking agreements but on reviewing opportunities, such as what already exists in the field of civil protection. I won't accuse Linda Snecker of wanting to remove part-time fire brigades with her argumentation, because that would be ridiculous. They're needed. However, not all the bureaucratic reasons she gives are against looking at the possibility of actually having some kind of police resource out in rural and rural areas. Then I also think that we need to look at the professional skills of many older people. Those who want to participate in the work and feel that they have the strength and experience to offer, of course, we will take advantage of. They're not bad people.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-124	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to say that we support all our reservations, but for time, I limit my claims to reservation 12 on admission to police training and reservation 24 on crime codes and statistics. We have now seen half the term pass and, unfortunately, developments in society have given rise in many ways to more concern today than when the term of office began. We have seen what the red-green government's under-financing of the Police Authority has resulted in. More and more police officers are resigning, and the dissatisfaction with working conditions and a heavier workload is widespread in the police. The reorganisation that was intended to provide positive synergies has lacked the necessary additional resources and, for that matter, clear leadership linked to police experience. We are therefore seeing this development within the Police Authority, while still increasing our population, not least through inadequate border controls, which in the long term will also burden the police even more as more people will have to be expelled. We are seeing more and more heavy criminal investigations piled on high because of a lack of investigative resources. Gunshots are triggering each other, and serious murders are shaking more and more cities with ever more constant intervals. Mr President, I would like to If anyone believed that the security of our country would become more evident from the government's under-financing of the Police Authority, I can disappoint them and say that it has not been so. But something positive is that I think that during the year I have at least heard representatives from most parties talking about that we need more police officers. It also seems that the government has realised that it cannot promise more police officers present in more places but that the police themselves will also increase in number. It's a welcome insight, and best in the class – if you can say so – after the Swedish Democrats are the Moderates who believe that 2 000 new police officers are needed. So they are not supposed to be needed today, but they believe that we have quite enough police today. It is an opinion shared by the remaining alliance parties – and for that matter also by the government. After all, it takes a little while before you can get new policemen into the field; they must be trained first. If you wanted more cops today, you would have gone for it a couple of years ago. A few years ago, the alliance parties put just as little effort into increasing the number of police officers as the government did. So about zero more policemen were trained. Today, therefore, we can assume that all parties except the Swedish Democrats are satisfied with the number of police officers we have. Some of the other parties, however, propose to train a few more police officers, who can be on duty in a few years' time. This must be seen as progress, even if the individual efforts are far from sufficient. To put the Moderates' proposal of 2 000 new police officers in relation to the Swedish Democrats' proposal: We propose that we train 7 000 new police officers during the same period. Mr President, I would like to If we had had a more generous investment in the police from the first year of the term, which the Swedish Democrats were then the only one to propose, it would have been considerably easier to keep more police officers in the profession and easier to attract more to the police profession. Instead, the term of office began with a sub-financing by the Police Authority, while a historically extensive reorganisation of the Agency was launched. The only way to break the negative spiral that you other parties have put the Police Authority into is to force the police. The Swedish Democrats want to invest 1.4 billion more than the government. Of this, we want to spend 650 million on improving working conditions and wages, especially for police officers in external service. In addition, SEK 300 million will be allocated to increase the number of civilian employees, and SEK 20 million will be allocated to restore the National Emergency Police Alliance government's closure during the last term of office. We allocate SEK 25 million to strengthen witness protection activities, and also allocate SEK 50 million to increase the capacity of the National Task Force to operate in several locations at the same time. 80 million are also allocated to obtain better reinforcement weapons for the police. Although the Police Authority is the biggest expense in our field of expenditure, it is not the only one. As in previous years, we allocate as much as the government, but usually more, to the remaining funding areas. The Security Service will receive an extra 110 million to strengthen the work against terrorism, among other things. The Prosecution Authority receives 150 million more than the Government proposes, including to reduce lead times in the legal process. The Swedish Financial Crime Agency receives more funds, and Sweden's courts are proposed to receive 168 million more to, among other things, strengthen the security of the courtrooms. Correctional services receive half a billion more in order to deal with the effects of our overall policy of increased penalties without, for that matter, impairing quality. The Agency receives more funds to strengthen the work for victims of crime, and we have increased funds for compensation due to injuries and crimes. The aim is, among other things, to ensure that the State guarantees victims the compensation they pay in a trial. Mr President, I would like to There are both more increases in appropriations in our budget and more ideas for each increase in appropriations, but I see that my speaking time is beginning to move towards its last seconds. However, I can briefly note that we have eight announcements in this. Among other things, we have helped to strengthen police presence in both rural and criminal areas. In conclusion, it can be said that through these efforts the Swedish Democrats continue to be Sweden's main criminal political party.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-138	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if the Swedish Democrats are stressed out when we try to point out that we have to invest in the police and therefore embark on some sort of overbenchmark discussion, but I am a little surprised by the history description. This view is not correct. When the alliance government took office in 2006, there were 17,423 police officers. That was inadequate, and we set ourselves a target of 20,000 police officers. This has later been established by the Parliament, during this term of office, because the government tore up that case. You were behind the case, along with us. It takes time to train police officers, and in 2010 the goal was achieved – we had 20 292 police officers, to be precise. The reason was that, in order to get quality, it is not possible to train 7 000 at the same time. In order to achieve this quality, it is necessary to ensure that the education system, i.e. police training, can deliver at that rate and that there is someone who takes care of the police scepters once they get out. Then the target has been maintained, and there have been about 20 000 police officers each year. We have now come to the conclusion that we should raise this target, and we do so because we see that the population has grown quite sharply over the last ten years. If we are to maintain the same police density, the figure is quite realistic around 2 000 more police officers. It is possible that even more people will have to be seen in the future, but we are quite convinced that the increase we are announcing is about what our educational system can cope with in order to deliver high-quality police officers. I don't know what the solution to this is. Is it really about the Swedish Democrats always – no matter what we say – going to be on top of the figure? It may not have much to do with solving problems, but it may be more about marking that you want to bet more than everyone else. Is that right, Adam Marttinen?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-142	Mr President, I would like to I guess it's more like the Moderates, no matter what we do, end up a little under. If you think we're stressed out about the fact that the Moderates are proposing 2,000 new police officers, you might be able to look back at how history has developed. So we have been proposing 7 000 new police officers over the budget period for several years, while the Moderates proposed 1 000 new police officers last year and this year they are proposing 2 000 new police officers. If anyone is stressed by the fact that we have had previous suggestions, it seems to be the Moderates, who are stressed that we are always a little better than the Moderates in this area. The proposed number of trained police officers is increasing from 1 000 to 2 000 per year. It can also speak a little for the future forecast that the Moderates claim to be adept at doing. In one year, 1 000 new police officers are proposed and another year, 2 000 new police officers are proposed to give the police the conditions they need to carry out their mission, perhaps they have not really calculated correctly. We have a completely different approach to the number of police officers in a country than the Moderates. We have said for many years that we need to relate the number of police officers to the number of inhabitants in the country. That is a much better approach than simply establishing a certain amount. That is why we have said that we should have 250 police officers per 100 000 inhabitants, and in order to achieve that goal we have a goal for how many are to be trained every year to get there. The number of training places should, of course, be linked to that objective. That is our approach, and it has been consistent – unlike Moderates' attitude toward the number of police officers.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-147	Mr President, I would like to What I am opposed to is the history that was given here. We increased sharply – from 17,000 police officers we have gone up to the target of 20,000 police officers. We have looked at the police density and this year we have come to the conclusion that 2 000 police officers are the correct one. That discussion was also held in the previous year, based on the budgetary space available. It is also about taking responsibility for a budget and ensuring a whole. The proposal last year was 1 000 – that is quite correct. I can possibly respect the fact that you want more policemen, one cop in every corner, or whatever it is. But, Adam Marttinen, the basis for a good debate must be that we base it on the facts that exist and that we do the correct analyses. We must also make sure that the system is connected, because we cannot train 7 000 police officers in a couple of years. We can't do that. We're not gonna get cops of the quality we want. I can understand that as a long-term goal, although I am not sure that I share that target. I also believe that we need to get more efficiency out of the police forces we already have in places where there are many police officers. What we now need to do most of all is to fill the gaps that we have in places where we do not have police officers, namely in crime-prone areas and in sparsely populated areas.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-150	Mr President, I would like to Krister Hammarbergh talks about 7 000 new police officers in a couple of years, but that is not how we have put up the proposal, which I think Krister is well aware of. We already had this discussion last year, and we stated then – as we are doing now – that this objective applies to the entire budget period, that is, considerably longer than two years. So Krister does not have to worry that we would have problems filling these places in the training courses. It does not even start next year, but we have a year of preparation before we start with our training places, which therefore spans the whole budget period. If you have a general under-financing for the Police Authority, and have also had it historically, you also have problems attracting people to go to the police. That is why I think it is positive that the Moderates have cheered themselves up from having been at the same low levels as the government in terms of spending on the Police Authority earlier in their term of office. I say it again: the same low levels! You invested just as much as the Red-Green Government did on the Police Authority in the first year of this term of office, but today you are spending almost 1 billion more than the government. This is a good thing. This is a development that is moving in the right direction – it is moving in the direction that the Swedish Democrats have been pointing out all along. We have an increased need for police activities, which also requires more resources. You are welcome to the direction that the Swedish Democrats have pointed out a long time ago.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-155	Mr President, I would like to When I hear the Swedish Democrats talking in the field of legal policy, I always think of a song from Annie Get Your Gun: Everything you do we can do better! It doesn't matter what any other party says – you raise the amount. But this only applies in the area of justice policy. Do you see any other possibility, in some other areas, where resources need to be strengthened? In my speech, I spent quite a lot of time talking about cooperation. It doesn't matter what kind of crime rubbing we're putting in or what area we're going into. It doesn't help with just cops. As far as these 14 areas are concerned, I do not know whether Adam Marttinen is familiar with the proposal that the Prime Minister presented this summer on how we should work on this issue. The proposal reinforces police presence. There's supposed to be stationed district police. But it is also a question of breaking long-term unemployment, raising schools and pupils' performance, strengthening public services, reducing housing segregation and overcrowding, supporting civil society and engaging in democratic work. If you look at your budgetary option, you can see that there is no money for this sort of thing, and if there is money, it is definitely not the same amount as the government proposes. Is it only the police that are to be strengthened in order for us to overcome the challenges we see in society, Adam Marttinen?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-160	Mr President, I would like to If we are to discuss outside our remit, to which this debate has been limited, it can be said that the Social Democrats do not have a particularly good track record in combating exclusion and long-term unemployment, or unemployment in general. The developments that we have seen in much of the 21st century – with a growing number of alienation areas, increasing gang crime and all that this entails – are largely linked to the mass immigration that you have hailed for quite a number of years and that we see tendencies towards your wanting back to. As far as this development is concerned, I must say that you are not beating our fingers. As far as our spending area is concerned, I believe that Helene Petersson notes that we are the best in the class. We're betting on the most cops. We invest resources in our spending area. I do not see this as a criticism in this context. For several years in the debate we have heard from the Social Democrats that it does not help with just more police officers. But if you ask the police – perhaps apart from Dan Eliasson – who works in the business if it helps with more police, I think they have a different opinion than Helene Petersson. I believe that police officers in the business share our view to a much greater extent than Helene Petersson does.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-164	Mr President, I would like to For us, crime prevention is more than just police. But I would also like to ask another question. Adam Marttinen says the police department is underfunded. What evidence does he have of this? Today, we have a saving in funds that the agency will have to make use of. More funds are being added. The police department itself says that when you train more people, more funds will also be needed. This has been set aside by the government – the government allocates 2 billion during the programming period for this. Last spring, the government provided more resources, as the Police Authority considered it necessary.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-167	Mr President, I would like to I could almost be content with thanking you for the question, because it says almost more than any answer I give. Here I am accused of saying that the police authorities need more money. Anyone who asks the authority gets the answer every year that you want more money than the government proposes. If there is a surplus, this is because the government has been very sparse when it comes to investing in the police. If you don't put enough money into the police... if you tighten your belt tight enough... more cops stop because they're unhappy. Of course, it will be difficult to spend the money in the last row. Then there will be money left, which is a problem and not a sign that the police authorities are doing very well. The fact that it is not possible to spend the money on the employees who should be in the agency today is another sign that the Police Authority is underfunded. I thank you for the questions, which I think were very clear about where we stand on this issue. The Swedish Democrats want more police and increased investment in the Swedish Police Authority. If the police authorities themselves are asked what they think of their mission and of the resources they receive from the government, I think they share our opinion in this regard.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-170	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in many ways a safe and good country to live in. We have more employment than we have in a very long time, and we are moving in the right direction. At the same time, inequality has increased over time. The fiscal policy of the former moderate-led government not only left major gaps in public finances but also had consequences for security and vulnerability, especially in the most vulnerable areas of society. Through our priorities, we are now focusing on and investing in these areas, including the police. The government is taking strong steps towards increasing inequality and insecurity in vulnerable areas. These are clear priorities, and the particularly vulnerable areas are one of the top priorities for the police. We invest in crime prevention, because we want the crimes never to be committed. We prioritise the work against serious organised crime with efforts in the area of justice through legislative changes but also through collaboration with many actors, both government agencies, who can get direct assignments, and municipalities, civil society and business, who are supported to interact and combat organised crime. Other priority areas are crimes that threaten democracy, such as hate crime. I'm afraid the hate crimes are on the increase. Hate crime with racist motives is a major problem in today's society. And it is very gratifying that one of the environmental party's most important election promises, to highlight and prioritise this problem, is now a reality and is being worked on. Another very important area that the government prioritises is violence against women and children. The new national strategy against men's violence against women is only the latest in a series of initiatives in this area, where much new resources are added and where the priority for the first time is to ensure that rape is never committed and that the battle is not dealt with. Preventing and investigating sexual crimes is another of the government's priorities. Now even the Moderates have finally put their opposition to a modern sex crime law that puts every woman's sexual integrity at the centre. In his reply to Krister Hammarbergh from the Moderates, he pointed out that the police's investigations into sexual crimes are too bad. That is a conclusion with which we agree and which we therefore give priority to doing something about. When National Police Commissioner Dan Eliasson visited the committee, we were able to note that the steering function is working and that Dan Eliasson has also taken on board the problem picture in this area and promises to improve the investigation results. Mr President, I would like to I should also like to remind you that I am in favour of the excellent proposal for the allocation of appropriations presented by the government and endorsed by the committee. The Green Party reserves its reservations on a number of issues, but for time-winning, we only ask for the approval of reservation 13 which deals with internships in police training. I shall also say a few words about police training, because I very much welcome the opposition's commitment to the issue of future police training. The announcement that is being proposed is to go in and poke at this stage before the proposal is ready in the Government Office. But I think it shows a strong commitment to be involved in the discussion about the future. The fact is, Mr President, that developments are already under way. Education changes. The universities that are training police officers today say that the education they provide is of such high quality that it qualifies for higher education credits, which is gratifying. I look forward to constructive discussions in that part of the future.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-182	Mr President, I would like to It is a little surprised that the Vice-President of the Committee has obviously not read more, even though she has been on the Committee on Exual Crimes. The Committee's directive, in relation to the resistance that the Moderates would have had, originally came from the alliance government, mainly because the discussion of the negligence crimes came up. We were interested to see if it could be a good solution, not least on the basis of the long discussion we had had for many years, precisely in terms of consent and the problem with it in the application of law. So it was the alliance government that originally set up the investigation. Then it was extended to become a parliamentary. If that was an advantage, I'll leave it unsaid. But the initiative was originally taken by the Alliance government, speaking of resistance. Then I really have to ask a question about the commitment to sexual crimes. Annika Hirvonen Falk was very concerned that the Moderates have made a small cutback on legal counsels, as she believes that legal counsels are obviously necessary during preliminary investigations and in order to have people convicted in court. Then I have to ask Annika Hirvonen F alk: Why do you want to save 15% of the funding? You want to save 370 million, not 34 million. After all, you are cutting the funding for legal aid from 2.7 billion to 2.3 billion. It's a total machete exercise you've been doing. Can you explain that?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-185	Mr President, I would like to Krister Hammarbergh says that the sex crime investigation directive was developed by the moderate-led government, and that's right. It was after long and hard pressure in Parliament's Chamber, with announcements and campaigns among the public, that the then Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask felt that it was not sustainable to go to elections with the attitude that the Moderates had so long held, namely that it would not be enough for anyone not voluntarily to participate in sexual acts so that a person who nevertheless carried out such acts could be convicted of a crime. However, as I said in my speech, Mr President, I very much welcome the move of the Moderates on this issue. It was indeed up to the last that the Moderate representatives also held back in the investigation on the issue of consent law. Of course, it is the end result that counts. When the matter comes to the table of this House, I look forward to all of us being able to join in the chorus that says that the right to sexual integrity is inviolable and that it does not matter how the victim has acted, but the responsibility should lie with the perpetrator. Mr President, I would like to As regards the question of legal representation, the government has made an assessment of what is needed. There, the Moderates cut down without any justification in either the speech or the exercise.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-188	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I shouldn't mention words like ugly rhetoric and lack of facts. But you shouldn't paste on anyone an opinion. In fact, I find it rude that the Vice-President of the Committee on Justice claims that we are not interested in sex crimes. The negligence crimes were something new that came into this discussion. It was important to set up an investigation, and the directives came from there. Don't scratch anyone else's opinion, Annika Hirvonen Falk! Don't use that kind of ruler techniques! You have been very upset that we are saving SEK 34 million in the past. You didn't even mention that you yourself have hijacked 370 million kroner. You'll have to excuse me, but I think it's a pretty dishonest combat technique. I'll send you one last question, because you don't want to answer the question about legal counsels and think that the 370 million in savings was a correct assessment. I'm going to ask you a new question, and it's about sexual harassment in a public place. The Moderates stress that we need an increased police presence, not least at the festivals where girls are particularly vulnerable. We think this is necessary. The Green Party does not think so. I am not starting from what I am making up, but from what you are writing in the report. You do not believe that an announcement to the government of increased police presence in particularly vulnerable places is necessary because the Police Authority has investigated the matter. What we are saying is that there is a need for an increased police presence. If you are concerned about these situations, Annika Hirvonen Falk, how can you justify the rejection? Why don't you want the expanded police presence?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-193	Mr President, I would like to I thank Krister Hammarbergh for the question. It clearly illustrates the difference between how the government parties and the opposition want to govern the police. We do not think it is serious to decide in Parliament that there should be this or so many police officers in one place at a certain time. It is not serious that we say how many police officers there should be at this or that festival. We have confidence that the Authority will make wise judgements as to what police presence is needed. The police have taken the harassments at festivals very seriously. For this reason, I feel that the House of Parliament does not need to make further announcements. However, I certainly share Krister Hammarbergh's commitment to the issue. As far as sexual offences are concerned, the Moderates have voted against consent legislation in all contexts, except most recently in the Sex Crimes Committee. Until the end, the Moderates have held back. It is a pity that Krister Hammarbergh cannot develop why in his own words. However, I cannot help but note that the Moderates have had an unwillingness towards the proposal for assent legislation and that they have changed their mind in the final step. Perhaps they were finally convinced by all the wise arguments and realised that it was untenable to resist in an issue that is so important for equality and for many people in Sweden.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-196	Mr President, I would like to Security is at the heart of many people's dreams of life. For many, it is a prerequisite for finding joy in work, family, education and leisure. Security is important for both women and men, young and old. Security is important for those whose family has lived in Sweden for many generations as well as for those who have recently moved here. It should be protected throughout the country whether you live in the countryside, in the city centre or in the suburbs. Ensuring the security of the individual is one of the most important tasks of the state. Security is largely about knowing that if you need the police, it is there, and if you are exposed to a crime, the legal system exists as support and to prosecute the perpetrator. Clear and easy to understand laws and well-thought-out mechanisms for legal certainty are prerequisites for a secure society. The vast majority have no contact with the judiciary until the time when it is really needed for having been subjected to a violent crime or a burglary or for losing money to fraudsters on the Internet. In this situation, it is important to feel that the police and the judiciary are at hand with the means available to support, help and get the guilty person prosecuted for the crime that has been committed. The whole chain of justice is important. In a functioning rule of law, trust in the judiciary must be strong. If people feel that the crimes they report are not investigated or no one is prosecuted, although it is perceived to be relatively easy to prove who has committed the crime, this confidence risks decreasing. It also risks causing people to refrain from reporting crimes. This, Mr President, is a path that leads in the wrong direction. People will seek other ways to secure their security, and none of these are particularly good. The rule of law must simply work. During the last parliamentary year, we discussed some proposals from the Center Party and the Alliance that won the Parliament's approval. The Center Party's proposal to separate systematic thefts would focus in particular on crimes committed by theft gangs ravaging rural areas. Here the government has not yet delivered, and I would like to call on my committee colleagues from the government parties and the minister present to lay down a coal. As things stand, there is a whole series of new announcements today. Among other things, we are expected to take a decision today to strengthen the conditions for a locally based police force. It was one of the main issues of police reform, but it has not become a reality in all parts of the country. The important district police and also the municipal police will be increased to ensure the important collaboration between the greats that are set to work with security locally. The police must increase their commitment to those who need it most by increasing their presence in crime-stricken areas. Another thing that is very important is that we proceed with increased knowledge of what is called honor-related crime. It is difficult to see honor in exposing a loved one to serious violations, threats, and violence to satisfy one's own twisted moral perception. I am pleased that we are announcing to the Government Parliament's desire for better knowledge and statistics on crimes against the elderly. People who may be particularly vulnerable by reduced mobility and other things become targets of cowardly scoundrels who, without consideration or respect, attack the most defenseless. There are also urgent measures for which we have not yet managed to obtain a majority in committee. One of the most important issues in terms of confidence in the police and the judiciary is the response times when someone calls and needs help. The police must be staffed so that the emergency times do not become too long or call out at worst. Even sparsely populated areas need to have a police staff that allows the police to pull out when necessary. It must be easy to get in touch with the police no matter where you live in the country. It should generally also be easy to send pictures or films to the police from a mobile phone. Faster access to data and evidence of this kind will create better conditions for resolving crimes. The police must also use modern technology to monitor and provide feedback to victims of crime. The Center Party has its own reservations and reservations along with other parties. I support them all, but for time-winning I only agree to reservation 7 under paragraph 13 on crime prevention. It is an important part that risks being obscured when we talk so much about the serious situation of the police. Crime prevention is important, and I hope that we can put more focus on it in the future. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs new leadership, and this applies in many areas. As far as jobs and entrepreneurship are concerned, the shortcomings in government policy are obvious. I myself have eleven years behind me as a small business owner and I can be absolutely afraid of the government parties' acute lack of understanding of the conditions for entrepreneurship. Leadership is for me about the power and courage to be long-term and take long-term responsibility. In order to build the country strongly so that we can withstand shocks and setbacks and be reasonably resilient to external threats, we need a strong economy. For us to guarantee people's security, for us to be able to have enough police and for the police to answer the phone when people call, we also need to have a strong economy. Then we can put the necessary resources in place when needed – not for years to come and hope for luck. Mr President, I would like to It's no secret what builds a strong economy. It is that we have companies throughout the country that are successful and that are well placed to operate and develop their businesses, attract new customers and accumulate investment funds and use them in the wisest possible way. But the government seems to be doing everything you can to make life as boring as possible for all these heroes all over the country through entrepreneurial taxes, airline taxes and taxes on transportation and distances. The government wants to introduce a tax on air travel, which has been much discussed recently, despite the fact that no demonstrable environmental effects are expected from the proposal. Apparently, the government dislikes entrepreneurs who succeed in considering a so-called profit cap for certain industries. In practice, it is equal to a profit ban. Too much tax burden today will remove the conditions for growth tomorrow. I guess it's kind of okay for the government to run such a line if you believe in it. But even with all these imaginative ways of squeezing the country's job creators, the government is not able to make significant investments in security in the next financial year. 100 million is set aside for an authority that in some places seems to be in free fall. It's not all night black. There are many heroes and heroines around in a police organization who do little miracles every day. But 100 million is not enough. The fact is that even the 520 million that we in the Center Party are proposing in our budget option for next year is not enough to raise the level to where I would like to see the police. But it's a bit along the way, and we're taking the first step today.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-219	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hedin began by saying that there is a need for more district policemen, that rural security has not increased and that it is a job that we must continue with. Then I can delight Johan Hedin. Just over a year ago we were at the same event in Ljungby, about security in the countryside. Even the Home Secretary was there. At the beginning of the week I could read in the newspaper that they have a new local police officer who works a lot with preventive work. They have also doubled the number of police officers. Today they are about 70, and they are about to employ another 9 plus 15 civilians. This has allowed the investigation side to catch up – there are no piles. The number of offences has fallen by 50 per cent in recent years. I think we should be a little careful about blacking everything out. In fact, there is quite a lot that is positive. I have some thoughts about the Centre Party's budget and, above all, the national police reserve. I wonder: Is that a new word for emergency police, and what tasks might they have? For example, terror crimes are mentioned, but for me, a police officer who is going to work with terrorist crimes is someone who has special education. If you're going to be involved in an act of terror crime, you should have heavy weapons. The question is whether a police reserve can be used for such tasks.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-221	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my speech – I hope that Helene Petersson in Stockaryd heard it – that is not all that is night black. There are many individual police officers around the country who do amazing things, and the stories you hear told when traveling in the country are very impressive. But they still need better conditions to work, and this is a work that we must continue with, with untiring intensity. I understand that the government parties want to defend development. It goes in the right direction in many ways, but it is far from an acceptable situation when it may take several hours to reach the police when you call 11414. These are the things that we have to work on, and I am glad that we have announcements on that particular point. In the case of a national police reserve, there may be situations where additional reinforcement is needed. I don't think it's supposed to be a new deployment of the emergency services exactly what it looked like before. That's why there's a new name for it. Something that bothers me a lot is that in the situation that has now arisen in the police organization, where there is quite a lot of dissatisfaction and frustration and where many people choose to quit, a lot of skills are at risk of being lost. I really want us to work together to see how we can catch up with those who have a police training and who are very competent but who have chosen to move on to other professions. Such people could be part of a police reserve. Then we will see what tasks the reserve will perform and what the ordinary police will do, but these are clearly resources that risk being wasted if we do not use them better. I would very much like us to do that, and I hope that we can proceed with this together through discussions in committee.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-226	Mr President, I would like to With regard to response times, Johan Hedin now clarified that it is 11414. In the speaker's chair, however, he spoke of an emergency, and in the case of emergency police, it is 112. There the response times are not close to what Johan Hedin says they are for 11414. I know there are concerns about 11414 and working with them. It's very important that you do it. I think it is important to highlight the good examples, because it also highlights the employees. You might see how you work in other places. There we as politicians have a responsibility not to black out an organization and authority that works hard. There are fellow workers who lay down their soul and heart, and how fun is it to hear that we have an authority that does not work? That's where I think we should watch our backs. I have another question for Johan Hedin. You reject the government's and the committee's proposal to transfer certain tasks from the naval police to the Coast Guard. We're doing a job trying to streamline the police's records. The Coast Guard has said that it delays an investigation procedure when they are not allowed to continue and investigate for themselves. If they have noticed a crime on the lake, they have to hand it over to the naval police, which means that the investigation more or less starts over from the beginning and takes much longer. The question is why do you reject this, Johan Hedin. Is it not a good suggestion to be able to streamline police duties in this area as well?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-230	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't think it's a very good idea. The Marine Police often do amazing things. Although the Coast Guard performs important tasks, there are crimes committed at sea that the police have to work on. The Coast Guard has worked a lot with statistics that look nice. They follow up on a lot of speed breaks, full-time crimes, and so on. Although these are important things, there are other things that need to be followed up and done by the police. I've talked to people from recreational boat organizations and others, and confidence in the naval police is very high, much higher than for the Coast Guard. It is important to invest in the marine police and that it works well.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-233	Mr President, I would like to My eco-partisan heart was beating with joy when I realised that aviation tax and climate issues would also be the subject of discussion here in connection with the debate on Category 4 Justice. I have argued with the stubbornness of a fool that the whole of society is connected and that what we do in one area can have repercussions on crime. I believe, of course, that this also applies to the climate issue. If we do not solve it in the long term, we will face enormous societal challenges, not least social ones. That is why it is excellent that the government is taking up the aviation sector, which has long been subsidised and exempt from tax. But over to what I had planned to say in my reply to Johan Hedin, who talked a lot about the crime prevention work: I would like to thank the Center Party, which has now changed foot and prioritises the local crime prevention work. In the budget a year ago, the Center Party wanted to reduce funding for local crime prevention by SEK 15 million, but now this has become something that the Center Party wants to invest in. That is gratifying, and I and the government agree with this priority. Targeted efforts are needed to strengthen the municipalities so that they can meet the police in their mission through citizens' promises and cooperation agreements. Support is also needed so that business and civil society organisations can work well to prevent crime.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-237	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if you should be happy or scared when you get praise from opponents. The Green Party apparently thinks that the Center Party's draft budget for 2017 is so very good that it is only in the budget option for last year that something has been found to criticise. That, of course, is good. Joke aside, I'll explain what this is all about. We had the idea of transferring a larger part of the crime prevention work to the municipalities. It's a thought that I think is pretty good in essence, because there's a lot of expertise there. Now we have chosen a different track and we have a common line with the Alliance – and, as it seems, also with the government parties – for a significant strengthening of crime prevention. Then we choose to go that way-- you're no worse than you can change your mind.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-239	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that at least the Center Party sees the value of us actually being able to support where it is needed at its best with state resources, unlike the Liberal colleagues who wondered where in the budget proposal this is addressed. I can inform you that this is on p. 47. Liberals are not very fond of these efforts. They would rather have some individual projects, no coordination and so on. I would like to make another point that Johan Hedin mentioned in his speech, namely the work against violence in the name of honour. It is also an area that is incredibly important and on which the government has had a lot of focus, including in the national strategy against men's violence against women, which was presented three weeks ago and also when it comes to reviewing legislation. Among other things, a new criminal offence – misleading to the marriage journey and more – has been introduced that needs to be evaluated. Last Monday I was in Botkyrka to find out about their work on these issues. They have had a very good collaboration with the police to prevent violence, including violence in the name of honour. I think we're on the right track. This work needs to continue, and the police need to get closer to the citizens and interact more locally with municipalities and other actors. However, I note that we are on the right track and that clear signals are good in this matter from Parliament as well.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-242	Mr President, I would like to I interpret the last more as a rhetorical contribution and that Annika Hirvonen Falk agrees with what I said about honor-related crime. Some time ago, I met the organization Tris, Girls' Right in Society. I was very impressed by their great expertise in this area and realized how little I really knew about it. I think that is a view that applies to many of us here. We need to learn much more about this urgent subject. It is also important that we try to produce relevant facts and statistics so that we can assess the extent of the problem. I recommend that the rest of you meet with Tris and talk to them, as most people have probably done. They have quite a few ideas. But it is good to have this announcement that we should have an increased knowledge of the subject.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-245	Mr President, I would like to I want to live in a society that is safe, with a well-being that is strong, that has a school for everyone and where there is housing, a fair police and a fair court. This is my objective and that of the Left Party when we, together with the government, present this budget. We want a society for all. Much in this debate today has been about the police. But I promise that the Committee on Justice will be responsible for a great many more questions than that, although I do not think anyone will see it that way today. If we go back a little bit in time, then Beatrice Ask was the Minister of Justice of the former alliance government, the police were the main focus. Still, more crimes were not solved. In the budget that we are now putting forward, we are also putting great emphasis on the police. But more crimes are still not solved. Yet the big conflict between us politicians today is about how much money we spend on the police. There is no resolution of criminal offences, and the police currently have rather poor figures when it comes to the statistics on investigations. It's probably because it's not the police that solves all the problems. It is rather in another end that we solve the problems, namely in the prevention of crime. And that's where the government, along with the Left Party, is betting big. I'm really proud of it. This is a budget that will actually make a difference. This is a budget that creates security. The Alliance will probably now say that it does not at all. The police are having a huge problem. Someone has to resign, perhaps the chief of police. And police officers need to get a higher salary. But that is not at all how a contract movement works. The Alliance then blames everything on the current government that has been in government power for two years, while the Alliance sat for eight years. Both of these governments have had the same problem with the police. It is because the solution is not so simple and because one does not always dare to deal with the complex, namely the prevention of crime. We have heard people say today that this is not even within our remit. Yes, it is, because it is the police's primary task. The problem is that the Alliance believes that the justice system is part of society where tough action and more cops solve everything. But that's not the case. It is a secure well-being that solves many of the problems that exist today – a strong and good school, a home for everyone and a well-being to be trusted. It cuts off the will to make a living from criminal acts. Society is a whole where all parts must interact with each other. That's how we create security. This is the difference between the right and the left, that is, the desire to prevent before anything happens and to have a policy for this or to be able to only throw in harsher penalties when it is too late and crime has already happened. Things are going well for security in Sweden today. Security is increasing, as is confidence in the judiciary. Yet, many do not feel safe. I'm one of them. The number of reported offences is increasing. At the same time, many crimes, such as sexual crimes, have actually been reduced. Relapses in crime are also decreasing. The prison service is doing a fantastic job there. The social intervention groups work very well in the municipalities that have them. And there will be a national coordinator against violence in close relations. This is really good policy. These are the efforts of the government and the Left Party. But there are many things that can get better. Girls are still getting questions in court about what they were wearing. My comrades out in Husby and Rinkeby feel that the segregation, or exclusion of Moderatska, has become greater. They feel that the racist currents are growing. Of course you're worried sick. That is why we are doing our part in this budget on justice. You can see how thin it is. That's because this is part of a larger whole. This is not a matter for itself. Because we want things to get better. We believe that crime prevention efforts are better than longer penalties. We believe that it creates security through community rather than with water cannons. We know that with a good school, a decent labour market and a good welfare, the stoning will end, because everything is connected. I support the proposal in the committee's report and Amendment No 28.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-256	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask you a short question. When we talk about the differences between the government and, above all, the Swedish Democrats, we often come back to general welfare efforts and a reduction in the gaps in society as an important part of combating the crimes committed. However, it should be borne in mind in this context that there are quite few people in relation to the population who are criminals and who commit crimes, and even fewer of them are actually life-style criteria and therefore have crime as their main livelihood. When it comes to the welfare effort, almost all these criminals live on welfare today. None of them are homeless or need to commit crimes in order to receive a daily income or food. These are often people who, for other reasons, have chosen to become criminals or who have been tempted to become criminals. It is as we have said several times: when you are faced with the choice to commit a crime or not, you naturally calculate with different forms of risk. It shows a lot of behaviors that criminals have. If there's a low risk of having a gun on you in a public place, then you have a gun on you in a public place. If there are high risks of going there for a particular type of crime, then you are dealing with another type of crime. I asked what it is that the life-time criteria are missing. How much money does the Left Party think they need? I am in favour of a different political direction, and that is to put these people away and leave them in prison for a long time for the crimes they have committed and to realise that it does not pay to be a criminal. I do not believe that the general welfare efforts that the Red-Green parties have been talking about for many years are the main solution for tackling the problems of crime that we are seeing today.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-261	Mr President, I would like to No, it is no secret that the Swedish Democrats do not believe in any kind of common welfare where everyone should be able to live in a good society. I mean all of them. You don't believe in the concept of all of them, but instead you drive by pointing out different groups in society and categorising people depending on where they come from, and this categorisation is usually based on ethnicity. Who are the criminals who feed on welfare? But, Adam Marttinen, don't we all live on welfare? Don't you and I live on welfare? Who pays our fee? Who's paying for you and me to stand here and debate? Yes, it's welfare. We all have the right to live on this welfare. That's why we have a justice system and a police officer. I would also like to inform Adam Marttinen that the police are also living on welfare. A government official's salary is not given by Gud, but it comes from yours and my common taxes. We share the welfare. Then there are some who exploit the system and commit criminal acts. And then there are different reasons why you become a criminal. We fight crime through a strong welfare. It is, as I said in the speaker's chair, through crime prevention efforts and by giving people several choices in life that we counteract crime. Those who commit criminal acts must be convicted. You calculate with what risk you take when you commit a criminal act. Is that why you in the Swedish Democrats regularly use iron pipes and end up in bar fights in your nightlife? You're calculating the risk you're taking. Should we raise the penalties even for those crimes?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-264	Mr President, I would like to You dropped the bar pretty hard, but you didn't answer the question. It can be seen as a common thread when left-wing parties make their speeches here in Parliament. What I called for was how to tackle the problems of crime in society. The attitude of the Left Party is that we must have a more generous welfare. I'm asking myself questions. There are no homeless criminals today, but these people usually have an apartment and allowance to make their living. But the left-wing solution is that they should have more funding and more money. Maybe they should have a three-bedroom instead of a two. Maybe they'll stop committing crimes. I do not think that is the main solution for tackling the serious crime that we see in society today. There is a need for more repressive measures. We must ensure that serious crimes also have serious consequences. This applies not least to all victims – a perspective that the government and, above all, the Left Party lack in this debate. Those who commit a crime often subject a victim to a violation. The punishment should also be part of the redress for the victim. But harsh punishment is also a prerequisite for turning your life around. A longer period in prison provides a better condition for rehabilitation. With the policy of the Left Party, everyone automatically comes out after two thirds of an already low penalty. We have completely different views on this and, in the light of the answer given to me by the Left Party, I am not very impressed by the level of the debate.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-268	Mr President, I would like to No, I am not elected to impress the Swedish Democrats, rather the opposite. I am elected to counter your politics and influence with all possible means. You always attack the Left Party for this with crimes and punishment. We base our policy on evidence, on research. There is no research to show that long prison sentences make the lockout to society better. No, it doesn't. Adam Marttinen seems to believe that if you invest in a strong welfare, you will benefit organised crime. He also says that criminals live in an apartment. That is a very strange reasoning. I have talked in the speaker's chair almost exclusively about crime prevention. I suggest you take a look at what I said and check: How did Linda Snecker say she wants to make more contributions to criminals? You think welfare is equal to benefits, but that's not how our health insurance system or other forms of community support are organized. Adam Marttinen returns to who are criminals and how we are going to deal with crime. That's what all parties want. How does the Left Party counteract this? We are probably the party that has the absolute best solutions for reducing crime. We see the whole human being. We know that a person can commit bad deeds and then return to society as a well-functioning person. We all live a long life in the service of welfare, and we can all be better, so also the Swedish Democrats.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-272	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, on behalf of the Liberals, I would like to endorse reservation 1 on mass crime and everyday crime. I would also like to call for the approval of reservation 9 which is a joint reservation by the Alliance on citizens' promises. It is exciting to listen to this debate. The committee's report already summarises in the preamble that the government does not achieve the criminal policy objectives in Sweden. I have listened to the Green Party and the Left Party. Vär n sterpartiet is a kind of hybrid. One time they are in opposition, but in this context, in the budget debate, they are part of the budget base. It is then satisfied with the development and believes that it is moving in the right direction. No, it's not all night black. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that things have gone the wrong way since this government took office two years ago. At the local level, there have been fewer police officers in external service. The Swedish police have come further from the citizens. The alliance colleague also raised this issue by calling the police. This is a problem that affects many citizens. We have been contacted in order to highlight the problem, and we are happy to do so in this debate as well. Exposed areas and the reorganisation of the police are an important part of the report. Liberals will therefore focus precisely on the police, because that is where the main problem lies within the remit of the Committee on Justice. This concerns the handling of Parliament's decision on reorganisation. We have requested a hearing in the Committee on Justice. We have been visited by both the government and the chief police officer. Statskontoret has also come and told us that in some parts things have happened, but in many areas things are going the wrong way. This is not the case with local police presence and resources for local police work. The local level has been given more and more jobs, but it has swelled at the waist, namely at the regional police offices. This is serious. We also asked Statskontoret whether it was reasonable ambitions or realistic timeframes for the reorganisation to sit down. The answer from the Director-General was yes. The Parliament could have expected that this reorganisation would have gone a little further. The issue of vulnerable areas has also been addressed. That's where we've been very committed. I have spent two years travelling around these so-called vulnerable areas and particularly vulnerable areas. We usually talk about 14 of them, but there are also other areas that are vulnerable and yet others that are not even on the police list of vulnerable areas. Nor must we forget these, Mr President, in this important debate. During the debate, a citizen from Lessebo has heard from him about everyday crimes and mass crimes. His mother had been the victim of the theft of the home service. The son was then asked to find out for himself who in the care of the elderly had worked during the hour or passport in question and then to supply the police with documentation and information. Of course, while family members did so and then contacted the police, they had already closed the case. This is just a matter and a case, but it is a sign – and this indicates – that we have problems in Swedish police. In the Alliance-wide reservation, we have paid particular attention to everyday crimes. The government parties do not support it, which I find unfortunate. The Malmö police went out the other day and informed the public that Region Syd and Malmö police will no longer be able to prioritise and deal with everyday crimes, or mass crimes as the report says. It is extremely serious to have such a signal from a regional police authority in one of our very largest cities, a city that is also very exposed to murders, shootings, hand grenades and other things. No, the Green Party and the Left Party, I certainly do not believe that the situation is moving in the right direction, rather the opposite. Unlike the government's 75 million to the police in next year's budget, we put in SEK 795 million. We want to begin a reinforcement with 2,500 more police officers and another 1,100 civil servants in the agency to relieve the burden and access the clearance rate and the investigations. This is today a major obstacle. We spend more money on the crime-promoting work, another 65 million, which is distributed on the local level and on the work against violent extremism. We return to our budget and invest in the Swedish Prosecution Authority to investigate more terrorist suspects, not least those who return to Sweden. Of the returnees, the courts have so far prosecuted and sentenced two persons for terrorist offences abroad. Madam President, I would like The government parties say repeatedly, and also in this report, that they are announcing an investment in socially vulnerable areas. I'd like to know where this is, because I can't find it.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-287	Madam President, I would like In fact, I am a little surprised that a party like the Liberals, which has been the bearer of Sweden's education policy for many years, opposes higher education. Liberals' motion that police training should include more practice goes through in committee. And that sounds good: The police are supposed to be out in the streets and squares, and then more practical experience is needed and not someone who has sat with his nose in a book. That's the wrong reason. Police training should become a university education leading to a vocational qualification. A higher education degree provides much better opportunities to ask for a higher salary, for example. There are so many positive synergies with our government officials having an academic degree that I don't really know where to start arguing. This is not a choice between a police officer who can walk the street or a police officer who will work at a desk, but it is a choice to get police officers with a good education at the bottom that gives a broad competence. At no other education in Sweden, we put forward arguments that academic qualifications are bad for professionals working with people. That's why I wonder what Roger Haddad thinks academic theory is. And in which other courses leading to a professional degree does he think that you should have less theory? Maybe it's medical school? Why is it only the police as a state authority that should not have an academic degree when we de facto demand it from government officials of all other authorities?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-291	Madam President, I would like I'll stick with the Justice Committee and police training. We have been very active in the Police Education Investigation, but since it was a reference group we had no chance to democratically reserve ourselves. That is why we have acted in committee to indicate that we feel differently from what the investigator has put forward as a proposal. We have said in recent years that you have to be able to credit some points and that you can more easily convert them to the higher education system. We have also courted and visited the Police Association to hear what they think about extending today's police training for two and a half years to three years. We asked if they thought it would be good if this extension consisted of more practice. The answer to that was yes. So, if you want, you can find a compromise whereby you turn the education into a higher education course in which the extension consists of practical elements. We have humbly and openly said that we are prepared to look at such a solution. However, we have not seen such a thing in the directives, and it was almost impossible to conduct such discussions in the investigation itself. Therefore, we have chosen to mark and signal that we need investigators, specialists and more police. These are needed indoors, but we also need to do more to get more police officers out and upgrade the profession in external service. That's why, unlike the Left Party, we're also adding a 50 million wage pool to police officers working in external service. We need both, because we believe that today there is a list that means that it is a bit nicer and a little better to sit inside.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-295	Madam President, I would like I note that Roger Haddad does not respond to what academic theory is. He also speaks only of the police in external service. This shows once again that this is where the Liberals focus most. The essence of such a policy is to think that the police are just patrolling and walking around the street. I want to inform Roger Haddad that the police are much more than that. I want to talk about police research, an area that is lagging behind. There is not much research in this area. If police training were to become a college education, this would probably change, and we would probably even get police officers to do research. This would also mean that education could be on a more solid scientific basis. That would be great. But this seems to swoop the Liberals past. For them, the police are something static that exists in a vacuum, where good knowledge of activity, sociology, psychology and, for that matter, the whole human being seems a little unnecessary. The Higher Education Act states that higher education at the undergraduate level will develop students' ability to independently identify, formulate and solve problems and provide preparedness to meet changes in working life. I think that police training should really contain this. I want a proper answer from the Liberals about what they think academic theory is and why this should not be part of police training. I also wonder why they do not want to invest more in police research in their proposals. What is the Liberals' opinion on education policy for the police?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-300	Madam President, I would like I give a brief answer: It is absolutely important for police officers to have career opportunities, switch over and become specialists, train themselves and count credits. Since 2009 – some even started earlier – police education is located at higher education institutions and universities in Umeå and Växjö. And recently Sörentorp was added, which is gradually being transferred to Södertörn University. The courses belong to academic institutions and involve absolutely police research, criminological research, sociology and so on. These elements already exist. But when I sat on the Board of the National Police until last year and got an evaluation of the police profession, it turned out that there were major shortcomings in the craft sector. It was about the practical elements, not the theoretical ones. Of course I take on board such an audit, which has been done at the National Police Board. Besides, I've been talking to the Police Federation, and I have to trust their judgment. If you now want to academise, is more theory and academic method needed, or is it more practice? Then the answer has been practice, and we agree.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-303	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Roger Haddad pointed out a number of areas where things are not going in the right direction. He meant that we from the Green Party do not see it. For example, it was about bringing more police officers closer to the citizens and a more locally based police. But there I must say that we agree, Madam President. That is also why the Green Party is behind the announcements that are about putting pressure on the agency to deliver in accordance with the goals that a united parliament has set for the police's reorganisation, namely that the police should get closer to the citizens and have more local roots and that we should have district police and municipal police throughout the country. This is something that Statskontoret also points out in its evaluation of the reform as areas to work on. It is also the case that the government has put pressure on this issue. Roger Haddad also wondered where in the budget proposal the efforts for particularly vulnerable areas are located. For example, on p. 44 under heading 4. In addition, I can recommend to Roger Haddad to look at the Prime Minister's presentation of this long-term work from Almedalen this summer and the press conference recently held by the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs on the security of bluelight personnel and on juvenile delinquency, to name but a few.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-305	Madam President, I would like It sounds like we're in agreement, but we're not in agreement. You will set aside 75 million in next year's budget. That's what we're going to decide this afternoon. Why do you only spend 75 million on the police in next year's budget, Annika Hirvonen Falk? We're spending $795 million on the police in next year's budget. Unless the organisation, the chief police officer and the police department deliver, it is not enough for us to adopt positions in committee. Then there are a number of tools, Madam President, and one of them is the budget. At the moment, Annika Hirvonen Falk's party has the fantastic opportunity to join the government and thus be able to strengthen various authorities, not least the police, so that you can hire more police officers and also more civil investigators in the Police Authority to literally get more police closer to the citizens. But that has not happened. That's the problem. That's why we stand here and devote our full energy to this 24 hours a day when we're awake anyway. How are things going in the affected areas? Why did we have only 400 district police officers on paper when I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service in May and June? Borlänge has two district police for the whole of Dalarna, and they are only assigned in one year. The important district police should work and be the base together with the local police when it comes to citizens' promises based on the local situation picture. But if there are no district policemen and municipal police do not get the collaboration that Annika Hirvonen Falk is also looking for. That is why I wonder: how is it, if we now agree, that you only add 75 million to the police in next year's budget?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-309	Madam President, I would like I counted at least three times when I would have recommended Roger Haddad to read the government budget bill. Oh, my God. It's right there. In particular, 75 million is an incorrect figure. But the reason we don't spend a lot of money is because a lot of money isn't the solution. For many years, Roger Haddad's government provided large resources to the police without getting the desired results. An investigation was therefore set up to transform the organisation of the police into a coherent authority that would push resources closer to the citizens. Now this is what we need to focus on. In addition, the Police Authority has pointed out that there is a need for more resources. Unlike the Liberals and others, however, we do not see it as a political task to point out how many should be police officers and how many should be civilian employees, but we provide resources to the Police Authority and promise to follow developments and see if further reinforcements are needed or whether it develops in different ways. However, we should not delude ourselves into thinking that just because we provide more resources, we solve the key problems that I still perceive we agree on, Roger Haddad. It's about getting the police out where they're most needed. When we do just that, Madam President, as in the example of Botkyrka, we also see that developments are moving in the right direction, with a police officer working hand in hand with the municipality to prevent crime and combat crime in the vulnerable areas.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-313	Madam President, I would like I visited the local police chief of Botkyrka yesterday. Their extra money is due to their inclusion in the category of particularly vulnerable areas. Most of the police officers they have received have been relocated from other parts of the police department. Instead, we want to make a financial boost to create more services overall, whether it be investigators or police officers. Annika Hirvonen Falk points out that Löfven held a press conference this summer. But it doesn't matter. It's just notifications. His press conference did not deliver a single crown extra to what we are debating right now, namely more district policemen who are going to get closer to the citizens. I understand that this is an indicator of how MP and S conduct budget debates and discussions internally. Before you entered the government, you had a police bill where you would save 300 million to streamline the police department. We've had fewer police officers since you entered the government. We have moved further away from the citizens. Contact and communication with the public and citizens are getting worse. Savings in large regions are now also announced. The temporary money received by the police this year – 250 million for refugee reception and police support – is not in next year's budget. Madam President, I would like I've definitely read the police budget. You are allocating 100 million to the Police Department, of which only 75 million will go to the police to hire more police or civilian investigators. It's compared to exactly 795 million. We're not making this up. We base our commitments in the budget on the basis of the Director of the National Police. You are the ones who turn a blind eye to his request.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-317	Madam President, I would like The fact that the police come when needed and have the ability to prosecute crimes and prosecute criminals is central to maintaining law and order in our society. But a well-functioning police officer means a lot more than that. Responsibilities of society when victims of violent crime, robbery, sexual harassment or burglary in their homes are a prerequisite for redressing victims and for safeguarding citizens' trust in central social functions. Today we see that trust being threatened when people are subjected to crime. As an individual, you should always be able to trust that the police have the resources to do their job of preventing, preventing and prosecuting crimes. A judicial system that stands up for the most vulnerable is a prerequisite for a good society that holds together. Confidence in the Swedish police is currently falling as a result of a sharp decline in results, alarm reports around the country and the fact that serious crimes are being forced to be prioritised. The crisis in the police has now gone so far as to have to give priority not only to crimes such as bicycle theft but also to serious assaults and robberies. This is very remarkable because of the serious crimes involved. Madam President, I would like As a result, trust is damaged and anxiety is increasing. For me and for the Christian Democrats, it is about taking seriously the concerns that are growing when citizens notice the inability of the police. It may be the girl who is worried about going to the festival, the landlord in the countryside who is worried about being hit by burglaries, or the entrepreneur who gets another theft in his shop that is not cleared up. For those people, more cops are a matter of security. They need more cops on their side to protect our common values. People's sense of insecurity and vulnerability must be taken seriously. If it grows, there is a great risk that more so-called vigilantes, as they say themselves, will take matters into their own hands. It is a development that neither of us wants. The order must be maintained and legal certainty guaranteed. The police should be there in situations when we and our environment are exposed to crime. We must be able to trust that. In the budget report being debated today, the Christian Democrats are proposing a strong commitment to the Swedish police. We're proposing 2,600 new police officers. We want to see wage increases in order for fewer people to stop. We'd like to re-introduce the P.P.D. and double the task force. During the four years we invest 4.4 billion in Swedish police, which is about twice as much as the government allocates to 2020. The government's budget for the police is inadequate. It's in the future. After the next election comes the big bets. Next year, the government will allocate SEK 100 million to the police. That is not good enough, Madam President, when the situation is so serious. The government's initiative can be likened to a small patch on a large wound. It is too late to come with 700 million in budget reinforcements in 2019 and 1 billion in 2020. It does not cover the costs that the police have for the expansions they have made with more admitted at the Police College and more civilian employees. We have two ministers who are in the debate today. One is in the Chamber right now. It is positive that the ministers are taking part in the debate. I expect answers and answers. When will there be a strong investment in Swedish police in the near future that meets the needs of the police now? With the government's policy, people who are currently employed within the Police Authority risk losing their job in 2018 and 2019 because the budget is underfunded in relation to the police's needs. It's extremely serious. The government must give the Police Authority and the Swedish people long-term conditions instead of the waiting-and-se mentality that now prevails. I expect to hear from you in today's debate. Madam President, I would like According to the Crime Prevention Council, 96% of reports of online crime are dropped by the police. If you look at the worst forms of harassment, such as violations of peace and illegal persecution, only 18 percent led to prosecution. This type of crime is considered difficult to investigate, and it is considered difficult to secure evidence. The Law has not been able to provide people with the protection they are entitled to expect. That's not good enough. The same set of values must apply online as IRL, or in real life, which is a direct translation of that expression. It is therefore urgent that the proposal of the Privacy and Punishment Investigation, set up by the Alliance to strengthen the law against online hatred, should also become a reality. The investigation is complete. The referral has been received. It's with the government. One question I would like to ask in the debate today is: when will the bill come? We also want the police to have an entity specifically working against online harassment and to have a knowledge boost in the entire judiciary on internet-related crime. In addition, schools need improved support to prevent and follow up bullying also on the internet. The online hatred and bullying faced by young people and school students today, who were perhaps previously left at the school yard when they went home, are today available around the clock on mobile phones and on the internet. Schools need better support in managing it. Madam President, I would like For the spirit of time, as is usually said, I am in favour of reservation 1 and reservation 26 in the debate. Of course, we support all the reservations that the Christian Democrats have themselves and together with the Alliance in the report.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting discussion and debate this morning. There are many themes that you recognize and that go again. I can't comment on everyone, but I want to mention something. The Swedish democrats could not, as usual, refrain from blaming the crime of mass immigration, as the representative said in a reply. In a situation where one Swedish democratic Member of Parliament was convicted of crime yesterday and another is under investigation, it is quite daring. I would like to say to the Swedish Democrats: Clean up your own parliamentary group before you start blaming immigrants! Two years ago, the government took office. We took office in a situation where unemployment had increased sharply under the bourgeois government. Long-term unemployment had increased, youth unemployment was record high and disparities increased most throughout the Western world. The housing situation had deteriorated, housing construction had decreased and overcrowding had increased. At the same time, school results had fallen. That is what the bourgeois government left behind. There was increased unemployment, increased gaps, overcrowding and falling school outcomes. Failure in key areas also fails in criminal policy. Because then we will not be able to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. Several speakers today have pointed out these links. Helene Petersson in Stockaryd, Annika Hirvonen Falk and Linda Snecker have done so. On top of that failure, the previous government devoted very little interest to another major issue that we have come to deal with during this term of office, namely terrorism and the threat of terrorism. The old bourgeois government took no steps whatsoever to criminalise the terrorist voyages. That's what we had to do. The old bourgeois government cut off the security police from FRA information which may be extremely important to get intelligence about in order to prepare for possible attacks. It was only after we intervened in 2010 in opposition that that information was restored. Contrary to what Krister Hammarbergh said in the debate, during these two years we have had a very high pace of reform. The Ministry of Justice has presented 72 bills at the Riksdag's table. It is a much higher pace of reform than the bourgeois government had in its two initial years. We have criminalised the terrorist voyages. It is gratifying that the information we now have is that in practice they have ceased. We have focused on organised crime. This summer, Parliament passed law in more than 30 respects, in order, among other things, to tighten up its view of and the possibility of tackling organised crime. We will continue to work towards organised crime. It will continue to be at the heart of us in the coming years. In addition, we will also place much greater emphasis on prevention than previous governments have done in the past. There we have laid a good foundation by gradually trying to solve the basic things that have to be in place. Unemployment falls and long-term unemployment falls. Youth unemployment is now the lowest in 13 years. We have 120,000 new jobs in two years. We currently have 100 000 jobs available. Only today came a new forecast that said that the situation will continue. We are also building more than we have in 40 years. Housing construction has increased. We can see that school results are improving, but with the important reservation that differences between schools and pupils tend to increase. That is why we are going in with special efforts towards the school sector as a whole, but also aimed at those schools that may have the greatest challenges. There are 13 000 more employees in school today than it was a few years ago. This is because, among other things, we know how important it is to be able to take early action for children and young people who may not feel well, who may be having a difficult time at home and who may not be able to keep up. If we do not break this trend early – which is done, among other things, with investments in schools and other welfare – there may be major concerns afterwards. We are shifting further in terms of prevention. We have laid a good foundation, we are putting forward a new crime prevention programme with a special coordinator and, furthermore, special money is allocated. If we are to succeed both in prevention and in breaking organised crime, we must put even more focus on the drugs issue. We now see, for example, how the Malmö police are hitting hard on the open drug trade. That's absolutely right. We should not have open drug sales in Sweden. When you can even drive away this kind of trade in Christiania in Denmark, we should not be worse in Sweden, you might think. The drugs issue is central to organised crime. It is often the one who finances crime, and it is also often the source of some of the conflicts that we see almost daily today. If we're gonna destroy these gangs, we're gonna have to take out the drug trade. We prevent crime, we attack organised crime and, finally, we protect the victims. Victim Support Finland and women's shelters now have more money to move with than they have ever had before. They can thus continue to expand and develop their important work to support victims. It's incredibly important. These include, for example, assistance in criminal investigations and trials. We will continue this work, including what was mentioned earlier in this debate about being able to go in early with professional support in the form of plaintiffs in relation to certain crimes. Above all, we have pointed out the sexual crimes, where we will return. Madam President, I would like The overall objective of our policy area is to reduce crime and increase security. The whole toolbox must then be used: labour market policy, social policy, education policy and the judiciary. In this way we fight crime, but we also fight the cause of crime.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-346	Madam President, I would like It is nice to see the ministers in the debate. I feel easily inspired by this speech, which means that I will be in favour of another reservation – reservation 38 on the competence to investigate drug offences. I hope that the Minister will talk a little with his party colleagues in committee about the importance of this area. We do not really have the same view of history, either in terms of how miserable it was in Sweden or in terms of how amazing it is now. Sometimes you still have to be a little sane. We saw that we had a development in which employment increased. Now school results are improving, and it is not because of reforms that have taken place in the last six months, but because of long-term work. Sweden topped almost all international surveys. We are certainly doing that now, and that is a positive thing. We remember the debate we had about secret coercive measures. It is important to have a majority on things in this House. The former Social Democratic Government failed to do so. They did not agree with their partners, but this could then be done under the alliance government. The FRA debate was hot, and there were problems. It was therefore a good thing that the Social Democrats in opposition could settle the matter, of which we agreed on the importance. Actually, I was going to ask for a line because of something that I found in the budget and that surprised me. During your time in Parliament, Morgan Johansson, you pushed forward announcements not least about the prison services, for which you are responsible. It was about getting ordinary supervision on this after comments by the JO and a number of investigations. We fully agreed on this in the investigation work that then came before the changed police organization. It suggested that there should be ordinary supervision of police and penitentiary services. This now seems to be completely changed. Now the government is moving in another direction. It is a little surprising because a clear position was taken by the Social Democrats to introduce this. Now you're in a government position and you've changed your feet. My question is, why?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-351	Madam President, I would like It's funny that Krister Hammarbergh thinks what I'm saying about drug crimes is inspiring. I really mean what I am saying, namely that if we do not get things right about open drug sales, this will only continue. It is about the funding of the criminal gangs and the recruitment of new young people. Conflicts will continue. That is why I say that I think it is excellent when the police show that they do not accept this, as they have just done in Malmö, for example. However, we must do much more than that. My point in my speech is that the judiciary cannot be seen as isolated from the rest of society. You also have to see what's happening around. The problems after eight years with a bourgeois government were precisely this: we had a record high level of youth unemployment, growing gaps and an increased number of what you had spoken about yourself, namely vulnerable areas and exclusion. You failed on all these points. That was because you were only giving priority to tax cuts and were doing nothing in terms of prevention. It does not solve the situation in the vulnerable neighbourhoods with any job tax deductions, but solves them through systematic investments in social services, coke and leisure activities. Does Krister Hammarbergh know that when I talk to the police, that's exactly what they say? They often say: It is clear that we would like to be a few more, but there must also be a basic municipal activity that works. That's why we do this. We are not prioritising the major tax cuts of 140 billion, but we are prioritising tax rates with, for example, 10 new welfare billions. We are also introducing a new national management function in terms of prevention. I think that's going to be very important. The issue of supervision of the Prison Service and the police is currently being prepared, and we will return to Parliament when we are through with it.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-356	Madam President, I would like We don't have much time, so it's good if we stick a little bit to the subject. Let me just sum up briefly, so as not to talk away my time: I feel that the history of the situation in the country two years ago that comes from the Minister of Justice is wrong. Instead of talking about taxes and the obsession with taxes that are obviously here, I would like to talk about the judiciary. Let us concentrate on the issue of extraordinary and ordinary police supervision. The police and the correctional services are authorities with great powers. They are the authorities which have access to coercive measures and which can detain a person. No other authority has it. There is a difference between extraordinary and ordinary supervision. The so-called extraordinary supervision is exercised by the Ombudsman of Justice and the Chancellor of Justice. In addition, we have a number of authorities that have regular regulatory supervision. In particular, the school system has extensive supervision, and anyone who does not cooperate can receive a periodic penalty payment. But we have nothing similar for those authorities that have the absolute greatest opportunity to intervene against individuals. As I said earlier, there is a history in which Morgan Johansson and others pushed quite strongly for an announcement in the Constitutional Committee. The Constitutional Committee pressed as late as 2015 – 2016 on the need for this regular supervision. You pushed, and we listened during that time. The investigation was set up and expanded to review both police and penitentiary. There was total agreement on the need for this in the investigation. There were no reservations whatsoever, except possibly with regard to the penalty, but there was a complete agreement on this. I know that there are parts within the authorities that do not want this supervision. I know the chief of police doesn't want it, and apparently the correctional services don't want it either. But that must not be a reason to say no. My question is: why are you not satisfied that what you previously wanted has been delivered?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-363	Madam President, I would like As I recall, this was put in the investigation, and as I recall, it was not the Social Democracy that pushed the hardest. It was the People's Party at the time. If I do not recall correctly, the issue was raised by a folk-partisan member of the investigation. This is what the investigation came up with. As I said, we are preparing the matter, and we have taken in the views of the consultation bodies. When we are finished with the analysis, we will return to the Riksdag with exactly what we should do. But I can say that perhaps this is not the biggest challenge at the moment in terms of the judiciary, the police or criminality – whether there is a superstructure of supervision over a state authority. I think I see much bigger challenges in the future, I would say. But in due course, when we finish the analysis, we will return to the Riksdag.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-365	Madam President, I would like I would like to return to a question I raised in my speech. In the privacy and criminal protection investigation, there are a number of proposals aimed at online hate speech and cybercrime. The investigation came in February. It has been referred to. In July, Morgan Johansson said: "We will move on to the Riksdag as soon as possible to get legislative changes in place. Today is December 7th. The information we have received from the Ministry of Justice is that this is expected to take place in September 2017. I would like to ask Morgan Johansson whether this is correct and whether it is really as soon as possible. We are talking about September 2017 at the same time as we are seeing the major problems that exist today. Young people in particular face online hate speech, online harassment and bullying. This is available 24 hours a day, every day of the week, on your mobile phone or in any other form on the internet. My questions are: When are the legislative proposals coming? Is it September 2017? Why not faster, Morgan Johansson?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-368	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that we need to strengthen this legislation. The proposals put forward include the creation of a new crime known as an illegal breach of privacy. For example, it is a matter of posting offensive images or films on the Internet. It is an act which, in itself, has not been criminalised before. There are also proposals to extend the paragraph on illegal threats. So it's a threat to post this kind of image. There are several other proposals, such as the possibility of compensation for crime. It is quite extensive legislative work with a very clear bearing on other types of legislation, such as the Freedom of Expression and Freedom of the Press Act. It is also about the discussion at all about what you should be allowed to say in the public discussion. It doesn't make it easy to get here. Nevertheless, I am quite convinced that we will do so. For us, that is a priority. The legislative referral will be possible at some point in the spring. We will then proceed to Parliament. The timetable that you have been described to you is the one that we are working on. Sometimes you're sad about not being able to work faster. However, when it is complicated legislation to deal with, the system must take its course. But the department's still working as fast as it can.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-372	Madam President, I would like It is true that we share our views on the direction. It's an investigation set up by the Alliance. This is a very important area. It's a big problem that a lot of people don't just face daily – they're exposed to this all the time. I would have liked Morgan Johansson to have been able to say that you can work even faster, that you can focus on this and that you can perhaps allocate resources so that the Government Office can come up with a bill earlier than in September 2017. The investigation came in February. It is almost a year since the proposals were put on the table of the government in the form of this investigation. I just want to appeal to Morgan Johansson to put on an extra coal. I understand and have great respect for the complexity of matter. But I think something should be brought forward. I wonder how Morgan Johansson sees it.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-375	Madam President, I would like I can go back again and check the schedule. I can do that. But I also know that if this is to be legislation that actually works, then we must have thought it through in several steps. It is often easy to say: now we are changing that wording. Then you don't think about the consequential changes. We're working as fast as we can. At the same time, I note that we at the Ministry of Justice have had an extremely high pace of reform. We have incredible productivity. Over 70 proposals have been put forward. Everyone's been through the Riksdag. It is a much higher rate than in the early years of the bourgeois government. But that's because we've had to work together to try to tie up some threads that weren't tied up before. I'd like to go back and adjust the schedule one more time. I share the view that this is an issue that we really need to be clear about.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-378	Madam President, I would like We are now in the half-time of the term of office. It may be worth reminding us of what has happened over the last two years. Two years ago it was still legal to go to Iraq or Syria and join Daish or, as it was then called, Isis or IS. Today, terrorist war travel is criminalised. Terrorist voyages have effectively ended. And further legislation is under way. Two years ago, not a single municipality had a coordinator against violent extremism or an action plan to address the problems. Today, all municipalities have a coordinator and most municipalities have an action plan. Two years ago, 176 000 Swedish passports were valid. For ten years, the number of missing passports increased each year. Today, new legislation has put an end to the misuse of Swedish passports, and for the first time in a very long time we are seeing a reduction in the number of missing passports. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the opposition for its constructive contribution to these changes and for the fact that we have jointly been able to take a strong stand against terrorism. I believe that this work made it possible both for the proposals to be put in place earlier and for them to be better than they would otherwise have been. It is gratifying that, as we gather for budget debate in Parliament, we have more police officers in Sweden than we had when we gathered a year ago. It is gratifying that we are investing more resources in the police than we have ever done in Sweden. And it is gratifying that we have more employees in the Police Authority than we have ever had before. But police activity is also hard strained. We have had the largest number of asylum seekers ever in Sweden. We've had the first border controls in 20 years. We've had an elevated threat of terror. We have had all of this at the same time as the biggest police reform has ever been carried out – it is a police reform that all parliamentary parties, police unions and police management have agreed on and considered necessary. All this, of course, has affected police activity, and it is part of the explanation that many years of falling results have not yet been broken. As early as last spring, the government provided significant resources to the Police Authority. In the budget proposal for 2017, we will over SEK 2 billion more in the next few years on the Swedish police. In addition to the government's efforts, the police will also be able to use their funding savings in the coming years. That means more cops and more civilian employees. But it also means the possibility of improved working environment and improved working conditions for the police. It is important to invest resources in the police, but at least as important is that the police can concentrate on their core mission so that we can get more results from the resources we invest in the police. So we are renouncing the police's duties. Handrails and transports that today take a long time and tear up work shifts are being moved away. Fisheries crimes and the like will continue to be investigated by the Coast Guard. Reports of non-criminal phenomena should not have to burden the police administration unnecessarily. Society is changing, and the police must follow that trend. That is why we are now turning police training into a real university education. A few troublemakers should not be able to destroy the large number that every morning goes up, gets to work and does the right thing. We must reverse social development – 10 – 15 years of growing gaps, rising unemployment and falling school outcomes, which have hit our suburbs hard. Preventive action is, of course, as the Minister of Justice expressed earlier, essential. What is also fundamental is that we have managed to reverse developments. Over the last two years, 120 000 new jobs have been created and 120 000 people have left unemployment and gone into work. We see how the development of school results has been broken. From having had the OECD's worst development, upper secondary school qualifications are now increasing, and in Timss and PISA the Swedish school is celebrating turns. This, of course, is the merit of many hardworking teachers and principals. But we must also push back organised crime and the shootings. This year alone, the government has presented more than thirty new laws and enforcement measures against organised crime, and 72 proposals have left the Ministry of Justice and received the approval of the Riksdag. We're criminalizing preparation for a serious weapon offence. Gang leaders can now be brought to justice for not preventing crime they themselves have known. It has become easier to confiscate criminal profits, as a number of criminals have discovered when they have tried to go on vacation or go out to the restaurant in Stockholm and then had to give up their Porsche Cayenne and go home. The government is not backing down for the task. Step by step, we will take the necessary measures. We are convinced that security must not be a privilege for a small few – it is a right for all.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-394	Madam President, I would like I will say as I said to the Minister of Justice earlier: it is nice that the Government is here to debate the budget! It is clear that we need to work together on producing important legislation, and I also feel that we have done the necessary times. The problems with Daish have not been very many years, thank God, and it is clear that action needs to be taken. It was therefore a good thing that there were talks on how to respond to terrorism, and it is a good thing that the government has also taken our proposals and put forward proposals. It's a good collaboration. It is a good thing that the government has come forward with stricter legislation on passports based on the investigative directives that we presented earlier. What the government has done on serious organised crime is good, on the basis of the directives and initiatives we have taken. It is a good thing that it has done so also in the area of the ID hijacking, which originally comes from the Alliance Government. The confiscation of property is a very powerful thing, as the Minister for Home Affairs says. We also have the proposals to tighten up penalties for drugs and bans on masking. It hasn't been perfect all the time. What applies to passports must be supplemented; the same applies to the ban on masking. It is clear that when we have new events in society and we discover gaps in our legislation, we must work in the same direction. All of this, therefore, is not only thanks to good ideas from the present government, but the greater part of that work had already begun. Let us continue to cultivate conversations when society needs it! On the other hand, I am a little concerned about police funding, because a large part of the grant is based on old saved funds. These funds do not seem to exist when we move towards the turn of the year. My question is: if the police now find themselves in an entirely different and more precarious financial situation, how does the Government intend to deal with it in the coming year?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-402	Madam President, I would like A direct answer to Krister Hammarbergh's question is that we must of course follow police performance closely. I am pleased that the police have a good budget follow-up and that even in a difficult time there has been a surplus. Of course, if there is to be a need for additional funding, we must take a stand on it. We are determined that we will have more police employees and more police officers. Then I would just like to comment on the exposé which Krister Hammarbergh dealt with at the beginning and say that political proposals should be judged on the basis of the quality and not on the basis of the author or author. Therefore, if there are good proposals in the political debate, I can guarantee that we will accept them, even if they happen to come from the Moderates.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-404	Madam President, I would like I'm sure the last one is absolutely necessary. The Minister for Home Affairs has now stated in a number of debates, Question Time and written answers that the police receive 2 billion in increased funding. It is true if you are borrowing the electorate's mandate for the next parliamentary term too, because these increases in the framework appropriations are not coming now. For next year, there is a framework increase of modest SEK 83 million. It is a little more 2018 with an increase of 622 million SEK. I want to get back to what I said earlier. It is, of course, important that we follow developments, but we may find ourselves in a rather difficult situation if we do not take action already in our amending budget. That is why it is time for us to raise this in the budget debate. Initially, the government estimated a surplus of SEK 700 million. This also meant that a surplus would have been made in this year's operations. As things stand, this year's funding seems to go plus minus zero: it is being used up. What is left is what is left from the good old years, 411 million or something like that, which means that there is already 300 million SEK of the government's funding at the beginning of the year. At the same time, the chief police officer, which we think is correct, announces that police training is greatly expanded and a large number of civilian staff are employed. These are now employed at the end of the year, i.e. they have not cost a full year's salary. Yet the budget is completely exhausted. Then we can quite quickly realise that we will have substantial cost increases next year to pay these people's salaries, and it is people that are needed. So there is much to indicate that there is more than SEK 300 million missing next year. That is why I wonder: how are the discussions going within the government and the Ministry of Finance? How are you going to correct this?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-410	Madam President, I would like Let me just first express my joy at the fact that Krister Hammarbergh calls the first Social Democratic and Environmental Party years of government the good years. It honours him in the political debate. We also need to have a continued demand for more efficient police operations. The police reform on which all the parties here have agreed was aimed at bringing more policemen closer to the citizens and greater efficiency. We merged 23 authorities into one authority, the county authorities became an authority, we got an IT department and a human resources department. These profits have not yet been achieved by the police. Even if we have a strained situation in the police force, we cannot reduce the demands for us to be able to bring back the effects of the reorganisation that we have agreed on. If, however, there is a need for more funding, we will, of course, be discussing this with the police and the police.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-414	Madam President, I would like There is, of course, much that could be discussed. We have quite a responsibility in our area of expenditure. When we listen to Anders Ygeman we hear that we have more police officers and more police employees than we have ever had. We also invest more money in both one and the other than we have ever done. It sounds nice, but for there to be relevance, you have to ask yourself: In relation to what? The previous year is not a particularly impressive comparison figure, especially since we are a country with a fairly rapidly growing population. Wouldn't it be better to do what the Swedish Democrats want, namely to relate the number of police officers to the population? On that basis, we actually have fewer police officers when this term of office is over in relation to the population we have then than we have today with the government's efforts. It becomes a little more honest measure of the bet you make and puts a clearer finger on that bet's ability to actually make a difference. Would it not be better for the government to speak clearly and make its efforts in relation to the population?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-419	Mr President, I would like to No, it wouldn't be. If you want such a relevant measure of comparison, I would recommend the Swedish Democrats and everyone else to compare with the number in the population that is of criminal age. Neither the number of infants nor the number of pensioners have a particularly significant impact on crime. The police have few problems with criminal gangs or criminal infant gangs.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-420	Mr President, I would like to We must thank you for the relatively funny answer, although in this context it was an empty answer to the question. Many other countries in Europe have such a relationship with the police that they relate to the number of inhabitants. Of course, there's a point to that. It is not a question of increasing the number of infants and of their being a problem in society. But if there are more people in a society, it also includes people of criminal age. That is the relevant aspect, and that is what other countries have been looking at when they look at the number of police officers. It is not very impressive when Ygeman says that there are more police officers than ever, especially when the fact is that there are fewer police officers in relation to the number of residents in a country with government policy. It would be a little more dressy and honest if you put your finger on the initiative of the government. There will be fewer police officers in relation to the number of inhabitants in Sweden when the term of office ends if the government is allowed to decide. Of course, it affects the police's overall ability to carry out their mission with more residents in one country. We have also heard this from the Political Authority. Thanks to the strong migration to Sweden with an increased number of inhabitants, there have also been much more demands on the police's mission. Of course you can try to make fun of the fact, but I don't think it's very dressy in this context – especially when the police force has so clearly signaled that there are problems with too few colleagues.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-424	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Adam Marttinen didn't appreciate the sense of humor. It may have happened. But the fact remains that it is a better measure to compare with the number of people of criminal age. We can say that even if you choose Sweden's own track record with the rest of the population, Sweden is the country in the Nordic countries that has the highest police density. Then Adam Marttinen can tell us what it looks like in the other countries, if there seems to be a low police density in the European perspective. It's possibly true if you just look at the table. But you have to look at what the police are doing. On the contrary, many of those police officers are parking guards or security guards. They perform completely different tasks than the Swedish police do. I dare to argue that Swedish police density is good in a Nordic perspective and in an EU perspective. Brå's reports show that Sweden has a good police officer. I think it sometimes disappears in the debate that all these 29 000 – the most police workers ever – are doing a fantastic job of securing our security, freedom and democracy, even if it sometimes means arresting one or another Swedish democrat.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-427	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to the debate. We could probably do it all day. There have been many different discussions and debates. That is good and absolutely necessary. Krister Hammarbergh began his speech by listing some of the problems we face. He mentioned poor police presence in many places, declining investigation results, the existence of investigative crimes, a decline in confidence in the Police Authority and serious criminality in many places. The list can be made even further. These are problems that we must take seriously and work with. It is important to recall that. At the same time, this is a budget debate, and there are obvious economic concerns. We're about to risk having a cop on credit. It won't last long, and everyone realizes that. We can discuss how many more police officers there should be here or there, but everyone knows it's a financial perspective. In order to achieve that financial framework, the ministers and the respective parties must fight against other activities. That is the reality we have to relate to. It is a concern that the money is not enough and that resources are not always used completely efficiently. We Moderates take the problems of the judicial economy very seriously. These are also the reasons why we are making the additional resources we are now making. I dare say that I would have wanted even more money for certain things without for that reason fertilising everywhere, but I think you should see the questions. With regard to many of the issues that have been discussed here, it is my firm opinion that the government is far too passive. I think it was Andreas Carlson who said that there is a kind of wait-and-see mentality. That's a problem. You have done a great deal, but the truth is that many legislative proposals, not least to combat serious crime, come from initiatives taken by the Alliance. That's how it works. There's nothing strange about that. It is good that the legislative proposals are in place. We, on the moderate side, will say yes to all the constructive, sensible proposals that exist because something needs to be done. Now I do not have much time to speak, and that is why I would like to make another important point. I'm warning you about simplistic history. A major concern at the moment is the vulnerable areas defined by the police in a special report. It came a few years ago, and it has been revised in a few rounds. Morgan Johansson was in on that discussion. First of all, I would like to say that these areas are not new. The million-dollar program areas were built between 1965 and 1974 under Social Democratic leadership. The areas quickly experienced social problems. Many people gathered there with difficulties. For a long time the Social Democrats had direct fear of touching the problems there. I'm not saying that all suburbs have problems, but there's a concentration. They have worsened over time. The fear of interference has been overcome by the Social Democrats – thank God! Now we can talk about the particular problems that exist. I recall, among other things, a debate article from 2005. I didn't write it, but someone else has. The article noted that the number of reported violent crimes in the six most vulnerable areas was twice as large as in the rest of the country. I also note that that article – to give an example – pointed out that some of the most troublesome areas were in Gothenburg. These aren't new problems. But I also dare to admit that none of us have the answer to the question of what to do. I think that the co-ordination minister, Ibrahim Baylan, is heading for something quite concrete – if he thinks he wants to have operational coordination in relation to some of the areas. If it's not just talk, I believe it. When the Alliance Government initiated the mobilisation of serious organised crime, we coordinated efforts from many different quarters in operational and concrete work. That's the only way the problems can be solved. The affected areas will require a concrete approach with more police officers and more action from different directions. We can't stand around talking about prevention when people shoot each other. It's got to get people there to do something about it. I welcome the necessary initiatives in this area. There are many more points to make, and I am sure we will come back to many proposals. We will have some meetings in the future to deal with, among other things, the fight against terrorism. That's great! The fact that terrorist travel has been criminalised is a good thing. One can discuss who was first on the ball, but the difficult thing at the moment is the fact that criminalisation means that we have closed the window for Säpo to get information from signal reconnaissance, which is absolutely necessary in the fight against terrorism. There are some questions that need to be straightened out. The Social Democrats should be grateful that we Moderates and some others dare to act in these areas. I'm not so sure your government colleagues are as positive and as constructive. Mr President, I would like to I wish the ministers, the members of the committee, the cabinet staff and Members of Parliament a Merry Christmas in due course. We have a great responsibility to solve the serious problems we face in terms of crime and crime in this country. We have a responsibility to be constructive. I think that many contributions to the debate have shown that the Swedish Parliament takes that responsibility.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-445	Mr President, I would like to I understand if Beatrice Ask resists history. It doesn't fall out to her advantage. She's talking about the million-dollar program areas. I think there are quite a few Social Democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties who have grown up in millions of programme areas. I did it myself, at least in my first six years. These are basically good areas. It is basically good quality of the properties. These are good areas with good physical conditions. The problems arise when we are unable to deal with the fundamental social issues, when unemployment and disparities are increasing. This is precisely when you have problems with, for example, recruitment to gang crime. That is what I pointed out in my speech. During Beatrice Ask's eight years in the government, the gaps in Sweden grew more than in any other OECD country, and you did nothing about it – quite the contrary. You bet, just to give an example, 19 times as much money on tax cuts as you spent on school. We do the opposite. We're betting on welfare. We also target resources for social services, schools, health care and those areas and people who really need these efforts. We are helping to close the gaps again, the ones you increased to such an extent. That is how we lay the foundations for good prevention. I think Beatrice Ask actually agrees with this. The problem is that her and her government record of divisions and social problems is so horribly bad. Our record only during these two years is much better. Then it was not the case, Mr President, that it was we who closed some window for Säpo or FRA. You did it. You closed Säpo's ability to focus the FRA for three years.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-452	Mr President, I would like to We also corrected the matter. Moreover, it is true that the criminalisation of terrorist travel that we introduced has created some new problems. I think it is very important to stay in the present and to use history to look forward. I don't have the suburban experience that Morgan Johansson may have, but I grew up in a small HSB apartment with a single mother. I have some knowledge of alienation and standing alongside the finer environments, so don't bring it! As I mentioned, we have a problem in these areas, in many of our suburbs. It is a problem that we must take seriously and discuss. On the other hand, I do not share the view that the divisions increased during the alliance government. The truth is that they have increased for decades in Sweden. What happened with job tax deductions and other things was that ordinary people got a little more in their wallets – money that you are now taking back. There was a reason why we had a debate on the work line or the subsidy line. You always want to increase contributions rather than give people jobs, and we have a slightly different view of it. Returning to our area, it is about trying to focus on solving the problems. Then I think it is absolutely necessary to ensure that we have more resources for police presence, for local knowledge, for contact with people in these areas so that ordinary, decent people living in vulnerable areas can live a normal life. Right now they are afraid and often dare not even tell the police and the judiciary what they have seen and been through. It is a challenge for us to tackle these problems, and there more needs to be done.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-457	Mr President, I would like to Again, Mr President, I understand that Beatrice Ask wants to stay in the present and not in the past. This is exactly what she was responsible for during her eight years in the government. The truth is that unemployment has increased. The gaps increased. It is not only I who claim it – the OECD noted that they increased fastest throughout the Western world during your reign. Social security benefits increased. Housing construction went down. I pointed out that in two years we have actually managed to reverse all these factors. With that, we have also laid the groundwork for breaking the serious development that we have had for quite a long time – I agree – when it comes to new recruitment to criminal gangs. Then we need to have law enforcement action, which we are moving forward with – I was very clear about the drugs policy and the police's efforts there – but also more preventive efforts. I told you that we have 13 000 more employees in school now than we had a couple of years ago. It's people who can work with, for example, seeing that guy or girl who doesn't really keep up or who might have problems at home. Then there must be staff at school, and there must be staff in social services. This is not financed by job tax deductions, as you thought, but by tax money that you are prepared to go in with. That is also what we are doing – including with the extra 10 billion. We're not going to compete in experiences; it's stupid. I just pointed out that there are quite a few of us who have grown up in the million-dollar programme areas, which you Moderates have tended to just get into and visit a little from time to time because you yourself do not have that experience. I'm just saying that if we're going to get to grips with this, we have to work with those people who live in those areas. The change must come from below in that way.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-462	Mr President, I would like to As far as drugs policy is concerned and increased penalties for serious drug offences, it is no secret that the proposals that you have decided are based on proposals that we have initiated and that we have pushed forward. We have been pushing all along to get these decisions, of which you are now proud. I almost find it a little embarrassing when the Government stands in the pulpit and claims that after two years, one with the opposition's budget, the government has solved all the major social problems that the Swedish Parliament is discussing and having to deal with. Of course, that is not the case. It's good if you're proud that you're making some efforts, but try to be a little realistic and account for reality! It is the case that a great many proposals come from the previous government. It is that we have had problems both before 2006 and far back that we have still not worked out. I dare to say that the problem of vulnerable areas whose situation has worsened, partly in recent years, will not be resolved under this government either. It will come back to the next government, and we will then discuss whether you did anything about it. Right now, things are getting worse. You shoot more and more people. It is a worse situation today than it was a year ago in many of these areas. Should I blame that on Morgan Johansson? Of course not. What I think we need to focus on is what we're going to do to correct this. Then one of the proposals that we clearly agree is that more police are needed. We are also putting more resources into making it possible. You have made sure that more of the police are used to get out in these areas. The question is, is that enough? For Gud's sake, let us aim ahead and deal with the problems we have! I think that is what the citizens expect of all of us. It is also a way of raising the profile of the political debate.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-469	Mr President, I would like to In order to avoid the debate falling apart in some sort of Monty Python-sketch, I will avoid telling you about my childhood. I shall begin by affirming a little self-criticism, as Beatrice Ask spoke of. I believe that the Social Democracy also has a part to play in not paying enough attention to the problems of our suburbs. We have not invested enough financial resources there before. Too much of society, both private and public, has withdrawn from the suburbs and now needs to come back and be part of it. But if you do not like the Social Democratic history that I and former Morgan Johansson expressed, you can surely accept the moderate. Your own report shows that after eight years of moderate government, there were more areas of exclusion, with your own words, in Sweden than it was when you started. There were more after eight years than when you started. Unemployment has increased, school results have fallen and gaps have increased; it is clear that this means something. And, of course, more than social action is needed in these areas – more police are needed. And in all 14 areas there are now more police officers than before. For example, in northern Botkyrka, which is one of the problem areas, there are more than twice as many police officers as when the government took office. It is clear that they are needed to provide security for citizens. But there is also a need for a social service that can take care of young people in bad environments. New legislation is needed to tackle this and to strengthen the efforts of the police. And we need to invest in jobs and training so that we reverse the development in these suburbs. There is simply a need for a coherent policy.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-474	Mr President, I would like to I get very provoked by rough generalizations about who votes this or that. I think it is better to discuss issues. We see major problems in many of these exclusion areas. But then let me point out, when the Council of State thinks it is so funny to try to suggest that it would be the fault of the Alliance Government, that very many are in social democratic-led municipalities and are led by social-democratic district administrations. This has been the case for decades, and it has obviously not done much good. I think we have structural problems in many of these areas, and I think there are things to deal with. That will require much of us in the future. What is surprising, however, when the Minister for Home Affairs is now asking for a reply is that there are no comments on the puncture within the Swedish police. There is no doubt that we in Parliament must be seriously concerned about the criticism that is being levelled at the implementation process that the police have undergone from all sides, including from within. We cannot have a police operation that has a flat tire, because it is unable to move forward. We need a strong and functioning police force in Sweden. Here we have a series of concerns, and I am disappointed that initiatives are not being taken to put things right. Statskontoret came last autumn with a report that we have discussed in several interpellation debates. It contained a long list of measures that need to be taken in order to bring about the implementation and implementation of the police reform that we still agreed on. Why is nothing happening on the part of the government on this issue?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-480	Mr President, I would like to I do not share a) the description of Swedish police and the efforts of all good police officers and police women and b) the description that the government would be poor in action and not take action. I devoted a significant part of my speech to this House today to describing those very measures and also some of the points of light that we actually see. For example, the response time for 114 14, which I think the Center Party mentioned here earlier, falls dramatically. Outside the Stockholm area, the response time is now two minutes. Unfortunately, in Stockholm it comes up for eight minutes, so there are still things to do. We see how many of the serious shootings we have had lead to convictions with powerful prison sentences. I think that's good. We see more police officers in our most vulnerable areas – far more than during the time when Beatrice Ask was responsible. We will certainly come back to these issues again, because we need to get more out of the reform we have agreed on. But the reader of Statskontoret's report also sees that thanks to this reform, some positive things have happened already now, and we have the right to expect more. I would also like to take this opportunity in my last reply to thank the members of the Committee on Justice for a good debate and to wish the chairman and members of the Committee on Justice a really good Christmas!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-486	Mr President, I would like to There are many police officers who are doing fantastic work, but it would be supposed to say that the police department is working well at the moment; it is not. There are far too many flaws. In fact, I missed what action the government is taking, but I'm going to read the protocol. As for the response times when calling the police, I urge everyone to look at the crime of the Week from yesterday, where they tried to call the police. Unfortunately, it was not a satir program but a reality program, which showed how bad it still works. That is unacceptable. It was also pointed out yesterday that more and more of the murders we see are gang settlements and that very few of them are cleared up, even if we get one or another conviction, which is of course a good thing. But fewer are being investigated, and the investigations are extremely resource-intensive – so resource-intensive that there are no investigators to many other crimes. Here we really have big problems to deal with. I think it is important to point out the problems. You should be careful to do as some principals sometimes do: not admit that there are problems at your own school because you are afraid that it will get a bad reputation. As a long-standing parent of schoolchildren, I think you have more respect for those who actually dare to point out the concerns that exist and may also indicate one or another idea of how to solve them. I promise that we, on the moderate side, will continue to contribute many concrete measures for the Swedish police to function better and for the security of Sweden to go in the right direction so that we get a better situation in terms of law enforcement than we see right now. Thank you for the debate.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-491	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate Category 8 Migration, and for the sake of simplicity, I would already like to call for reservation 1. 2016 has been calmer in migration policy than 2015 was. We'll be happy about that. When we entered this year it was against the backdrop of the most turbulent time ever in Swedish refugee policy. In just two years, nearly a quarter of a million people went to Sweden – the highest inflow per capita ever measured in an OECD country. The background to this was an environment in crisis, but also the fact that Sweden was allowed to deviate from the norm in our surrounding world when it comes to laws and regulations for a long time on a number of points. What was quite natural in many other countries – temporary residence permits, a strong dependency requirement for family migration and medical age assessments of unaccompanied young people – were for a long time distant in Sweden. This very single-track discussion on these difficult issues has been bad for Sweden. The consequences will frame Swedish policy for many years to come because of the fact that integration in Sweden does not work. Sweden has helped many people in need; it is quite clear and deserves to be said. At the same time, however, it is clear that many have come to Sweden in the belief that there is directly work, housing and education available, as if there was no housing crisis or as if integration in Sweden had worked. I can see that in many people there is a disappointment that life here did not turn out the way it had been thought. We know that many have also paid large sums of money or been sent away by their families in order to send back money home, but here we have had to experience that reality was quite different from what we had thought. For this failure, Swedish migration policy bears a great responsibility. Mr President, I would like to The refugee crisis is not over, and I want to warn against letting the crisis consciousness disappear in the belief that things will soon return to what they once were. This year 29 000 asylum seekers are expected to be sent to Sweden, which corresponds to a normal year during the period 200 0 – 2012. Family immigration is added. At the same time, there are barely 100 000 people still waiting to hear about asylum. V i sees major problems in the establishment of new arrivals, where the most striking is the acute lack of housing. It is quite clear that the municipal placement is not working. The reason for this is that there is too little construction. It is still too difficult and takes too long to find new housing. We are simply poorly equipped on the housing side to face what we are experiencing. Here I would remind the government that the agreement reached last autumn also meant making clear regulatory simplifications with a view to facilitating housing construction. There are still no such simplifications. The government points with the whole hand to the municipalities but has also baffled their ability to arrange housing. We have, on the moderate side, pointed out that it will be necessary to slow down the lockout from the Migration Agency's accommodation. Another major problem area is the fact that we have a return that does not work. Most of those who return today do so voluntarily, after rejection, or simply withdraw their asylum application. The problem is that many do not return but continue to reside in Sweden even though they lack permission to live here. I am deeply concerned about the shadow society that is spreading out in Sweden. We are in danger of having a situation soon with up to 70 000 people living here without permission. This undermines confidence in the entire migration policy. It undermines the difference between yes and no, and it risks causing social vulnerability in the form of deepest exclusion that we have never seen before in Sweden. We Moderates point to a wide range of things that have to happen. There must be more police officers who can execute expulsions. There is a need for 100 additional detention places in addition to the Government's proposal. We propose a double limitation period, a review of the Social Services Act, etc. This is where efforts must be made to break the growth of shadow society. If we keep waiting, it will soon be too late. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the most important lesson we in this House can learn from the refugee crisis is about the importance of having a long-term migration policy. We should not be forced into any more panic attacks that the government carried out last autumn. We need a migration policy that provides long-term ground rules not only for the state and the municipalities but also for all the people out there. The Temporary Act on Asylum is just temporary. It will expire no later than 2019, and the question is what happens then. As far as the Moderates are concerned, I would like to give a direct answer. For us, it is out of the question to return to the migration policy that used to apply. Then Sweden had completely different rules from the rest of the EU, and we pretended that difficult issues – seriously difficult issues – regarding the capacity of our reception or integration in Sweden could easily be solved by fine words. It just doesn't work. We therefore want, Mr President, to replace the temporary law with a permanent law that is in line with what is in force in the world around us. For example, temporary residence permits and a strong supply requirement in the event of family immigration are important parts of the process. Sweden needs a long-term and sustainable migration policy.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-505	Mr President, I would like to It's really great to be here today – not only because politics is fun but also because it's great to hear Johan Forssell's speech. I agree to a large extent, almost to the point, with what he says. It is clear that the Moderates have adapted to the policy of the Swedish Democrats on many issues. Questions we have been pursuing since we entered the Riksdag have been taken on board. What has previously made me happy is the debate article that Anna Kinberg Batra sent to Aftonbladet. It apologises for the bullying of people who have highlighted the breakdown of the previous and current immigration policy. It also largely apologises for the former liberal migration policy of the Alliance Government, which has caused a wide range of problems. What I now wonder, Mr President, is therefore: where are the excuses to the Swedish Democrats and our voters – to those of us who have always been right and who have always said what Johan Forssell says here today?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-507	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the Moderates have reconsidered much of their migration policy for a number of reasons. I presented them in my speech. Migration policy is perhaps one of the most difficult areas to deal with, because it affects people so much. Anyone who thinks you can talk about these issues or deal with societal problems with simple words or simple solutions will quickly be disappointed, for this is not easy. It's complicated. There we have moderates a responsibility– we sometimes made it sound like these questions didn't deserve answers or that the answers were just as simple as we now know they aren't. We started the change in December 2014 and have presented a wide range of proposals during this year. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I believe that a problem with migration policy is sometimes that we look back too much, who said what, etcetera. Our focus from day one has been to present credible solutions to the problems that exist. There I have to say that I think it is quite empty. As I said, I have been self-critical about my own party, but I also think it has been empty with several other parties. There have been many words, but if you look specifically at what is on the table in the form of proposals – for example linked to return or how to make medical age assessments work and get there – you can see that it has been very little. Our focus in this is therefore to continue to take the concerns that many people feel very seriously, but above all to develop concrete policies that can be implemented from day one.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-512	Mr President, I would like to I feel very hopeful about the future and the development of the Moderates, I can say. It's very pleasing. However, there is still a problem, and it is the fact that the Moderates have done nothing to convict the present government. There have been several occasions in the past, and there are opportunities in the future to try to convict the government. It almost feels as if you do not want to take power in Sweden. If you do not want to take power, you are obviously quite satisfied with the current government, and I personally find that very strange. Anyway! If we are now hypothetically to expect the Moderates to take power in the country from now on – in two years' time – I would still like to see how the Moderates will handle this without the support of the Swedish Democrats. How can the Moderates maintain the migration policy Johan Forssell has just stated, while two of the alliance parties' policies are largely in contrast with it? How will the Moderates succeed in settling this policy without the Swedish Democrats?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-515	Mr President, I would like to The focus of the Moderates is not primarily to take power, but to earn power. We want it from the electorate. Our government option is known as the Alliance, and we have ruled together for eight years. It was a successful period for Sweden, I would say. Although there have been parts where I think you should have done differently – I don't think anyone has missed them – I want to say that it was a very successful time for Sweden. We have begun to present joint proposals in migration policy as well. One example of this is the committee initiative on labour migration that we put on Parliament's table just recently and for which, I am pleased to say, we received broad support throughout the Social Security Committee. We will continue to discuss the issues in the future, and we will meet the voters as an alliance in 2018. Hopefully we will also have the voters' support for the policy we want to see.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-517	Mr President, I would like to Even a little kid knows that magic is about capturing the audience's attention with one hand – over here! – while the other hand sneaks the coin into the pocket. Every time I listen to Forssell, I come to think of this exact magic trick. Time and again he points with one hand at the refugees who have just arrived, while the other hand hides the 140 billion that the bourgeoisie has crept into the pockets of the richest for eight years. The other hand also hides the many billions pumped out of our well-being by companies that have had to sink their tabs into our treasure chests. Forssell blames an emaciated well-being, with too few teachers in the classroom, understaffed elderly care and housing shortages, on those who just arrived. And as he points to the refugees with one hand, he tries to hide what has happened. He tries to conceal the responsibility that he and the bourgeoisie actually have. This is a trick where the Swedish Democrats are used as units, as we saw just now. They're absolutely necessary. Now they stand, contented, in the wings and see that the poisonous heat they have brought against refugees is used in the illusion of the bourgeoisie. Instead of building a society that holds more people, the Moderates choose to talk about a refugee break. And if we look at the Moderates' budget, we see that they say no to the housing investments agreed between the government and the Left Party. At the same time, we see that it is bourgeois municipalities that completely fail in their work in receiving it. Of course, I wonder what Forssell is going to say to these municipalities. What solutions does he have that are not about pointing with his hand over here?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-522	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Christina Höj Larsen, I don't think there are any magic tricks in politics, especially in Swedish migration policy. This is complicated. I believe that it is only possible to deal with the situation and build confidence in the electorate if concrete proposals are presented, which has been my focus and that of the Moderates. We think differently. We think differently in migration policy, and we think differently in integration policy. I would argue that our task for people who come to Sweden does not end as soon as they have crossed the national border. This is really when the big challenge begins in terms of integration, jobs and a work line that works. I am proud that over the years in government, the Alliance implemented tax incentives aimed at low and middle wage earners. I'm proud of this. I understand Christina Höj Larsen has a different opinion. I am proud that we made efforts to improve the business environment, and I want to continue to do so. How else are we going to ensure that people who come here – often with a lower education than the one in Sweden today, and often without knowing the language – get into work? With the policy that the Left Party stands for, we risk getting more out of the exclusion and lack of integration that we already see. We will see a world of fire, leading to more fires in our suburbs. We have presented a comprehensive list of simplifications in housing construction. We want to implement this quickly. These simplifications are available – I am happy to hand over a copy of all this. We put it on the table. Let me just say one thing. Had there been a lack of building subsidies that would have been the major problem in housing policy, there would have been no housing crisis today. Does anyone want these building subsidies, other than the government and the Left Party? Is there anyone?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-529	Mr President, I would like to I understand Forssell loves talking about alienation. But what he repeatedly forgets to tell is that what he calls alienation is a logical and absolute consequence of the policy that he pursues. It is a consequence of class politics. Every political proposal you put forward is about rigging the system for those who already have and for those who do best. It is about fiscal policy, privatisation and the drive to let companies pump profits out of our welfare. This also applies to the free choice of schools and the right of establishment, which segregates and sorts. First, you rig the system for those who have the most. Then you have the nerve to blame those who fall outside, who do not have a safety net, who need extra support in school – you blame those who need what we have created together in the welfare society. It has the nerve to say that it is these people who are the problem. The thing is that Forssell and the Moderates cannot have any solutions to reduce the so-called exclusion. That is completely impossible, because it is a complete consequence of the policy you are pursuing. It's a circular reasoning. Everyone who has been a part of Swedish welfare understands this. As far as subsidies are concerned, this is one way. The Left Party has a number of other ways. You abandoned state housing policy for eight years, and now you wonder why housing is not enough. It's kind of strange and hair-traveling. Of course there are other proposals. Government loans for top loans are a proposal that could actually provide really good volumes in housing construction, and we will continue to propose this.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-535	Mr President, I would like to I think we need to make major changes if we are to avoid what we have seen in the last two years, with future family migration, ending in a crisis of integration. Unfortunately, given that the number of exclusion areas has grown sharply over the last ten years, there is reason to be very concerned. This happened even before the consequences of the refugee crisis began to be felt. I think we can do a lot of things, which we have also put on Parliament's table. We want a strong line of work. It should pay better to go to work. We still have about 1 million people who don't go to work on a normal day. Anyone who believes that this task is somehow completed after eight years of alliance rule, unfortunately, I must disappoint. I think it is even more important today that the work line exists. We have put forward proposals for first job employment and tax relief for the first job. These are forms of employment that may have a slightly lower level of employment protection – you should be honest and say that. On the other hand, we have to think about what answer we will otherwise give to people who come to Sweden with an education that may not even amount to nine years – we know that about half of them have a maximum of nine years of education. Add to this a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language, which is quite natural. We know the answer. The answer will be supply aid, long-term supply aid. We also know that once you get into that situation, it is often difficult to get out of there. I think there is often a tendency, not least in the Left Party, to say that the alternative to this would be for people to enter high-paid jobs directly. But reality doesn't look like that. And you actually have to start somewhere. How can you get your dream job if you never get that first job? Let me also say this about housing policy: it is not building subsidies. That money ends up in the pockets of the companies. It is interesting that a left-wing party is holding appeals on that particular theme, but this will not solve the problems. If it had, we would have noticed by now. A completely different response is required.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-541	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Category 8 on migration. It's a complex area. When I thought about this debate, I thought about what gave me a political interest at one time and why this interest gradually also developed into a political commitment. As a very young boy, I, like many other children, was eager to help others. I was driven by my ambition to promote goodness. It was this interest that led me to get an interest in various social issues. However, I thought it was quite simple. With the development that we have had in our part of the world, it was natural for me that responsible politicians chose what was best for our society and for the citizens. Politicians are voted by the citizens and are supposed to represent them. It was self-evident to me that common sense and our knowledge were used to make the best use of each invested tax crown. It was also obvious to me that this money was used to support those who needed help in society. I saw Ideological differences as a rather small part of the whole. Slowly, however, it has become clear to me that this is not the way it is. What governs is not logical. Nor does the majority of ruling politicians seem to be concerned about their basic responsibilities. Mr President, I would like to That's why I'm standing here today. I am standing here because of an enormous betrayal of our own citizens. That's why – because I cared about my fellow human beings – I eventually joined the Swedish Democrats. As a verige democrat, I can look beyond ideology and choose common sense and focus on our main responsibility for our citizens. In addition, we must not forget our human responsibility for people who are having a difficult time in other parts of the world and thus also be able to promote help to them. Unfortunately, we have seen how most of the ruling politicians have ignored the logic in favour of the policies cultivated by those whose eyes cannot see beyond Sweden's borders. For decades, we have seen how the society that our ancestors have built up has rapidly collapsed and how one is willing to invest in something that is not included in our main mission in close to each area of society. That, Mr President, is shameful. Even a child understands its absurdity. It is quite unreasonable to allow segregation to increase and alienation areas to grow, to extend care queues and to see ever-deteriorating school outcomes and an escalation of crime – all of this to promote a policy that no voter has ever been asked for. Mr President, I would like to Although the previous political establishment in recent years has worsened already acute problems, it is not hopeless. Today, only a small proportion of the Swedish people still believe that we should return to the world's most liberal migration policy. This is positive. The Swedish Democrats defend the right to asylum, but at the same time believe that asylum should only be granted to those who meet the criteria of the UN Refugee Convention to ensure a sustainable migration policy. In other words, strict application of the principle of asylum in the first safe country of arrival should apply. Sweden, as there are no conflicts in our neighbourhood, should therefore not grant asylum to asylum seekers who pass through safe countries. Transit centres should be established at border crossing points for the rapid examination of applications for asylum received. In practical terms, our zero vision of asylum immigration means that no migrants crossing safe countries should be granted asylum in Sweden. This allows for reduced costs in the area of migration and thus increased opportunities for welfare and new investments here in Sweden. In combination with these changes, it is inevitable to emphasise the importance of mandatory health surveys to ensure the health of migrants as well as existing residents, which is why we set aside 70 million for this purpose. We also want to focus on building a strong community in society in the future. Sound inclusion also requires common sense with demands on those who seek their way to our country. It should be mandatory for all applicants for a residence permit in Sweden to participate in social orientation. The content should be developed so that it provides a good introduction to Sweden and practical knowledge of obligations, rights and opportunities. Education should be given about the culture, history and values of Swedish society. This social orientation should take place in parallel with and as a complement to Swedish education. All of this, Mr President, goes without saying. People who feel that they do not fit in Sweden should be helped to return, so we set aside 150 million for this purpose. In addition to this, we must prosecute asylum abuse, which can partly be done by replacing cash payments of daily allowances with time-limited digitised vouchers for basic needs. Mr President, I would like to The heartless, ineffective and completely twisted policy that we have seen in the area of migration in Sweden is why I am standing here today. It is all the irresponsible decisions that have been made over the years that make my mission so simple, at the same time as it is time-consuming and in many cases frustrating. But I shall also be a little positive, Mr President. It is these decisions that make me support the Swedish Democrats' reservation today.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-561	Mr President, I would like to Hey, Markus! You spoke here in your speech about, among other things, what you want a new system to look like that protects people's ability to seek protection, at least if you are covered by the UN Convention, i.e. if you are a convention refugee. At the same time, you are saying that you want transit zones or similar directly at the border where you will have your asylum application examined, but that you also want strict application of the first safe country principle, even for third-country nationals if I understood you correctly. If you don't, you're welcome to correct me. Is that how you want to build the new system in concrete terms? It has been a little unclear earlier from the Swedish Democrats. It has been a lot of words but not so much concrete. Then I wonder how you view Turkey's role in this. In the past, you have been critical in various contexts, including in committee, of the EU negotiating with Turkey. I think that's quite reasonable. We are also in a situation in which Mr Erdo has stated that if he does not have more resources and if the EU does not give him additional power and power to influence, he will break the agreement that has been concluded and allow people to cross over to the EU again. How do you view that situation? If you still think that people have the right to seek shelter in order to live, I wonder how you view the countries around Syria having closed their borders and shutting people in. How are you gonna get them out of there? How are you going to help these people?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-565	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. It is true that we are very critical of how Turkey is dealing with different situations, not least when it comes to the migrant crisis, and how to use migrants as a way to come up with new blackmails against the European Union and make demands on the European Union. This is something that we are very critical of, because we believe that if you are dealing with refugee aid you should help people. EU membership itself is today a non-functioning system in which supranationality means that different countries cannot influence their own decisions and that countries are forced to adapt to each other. We can always negotiate with Turkey and try to make the situation easier for us. But the problem is not really whether or not Europe should do it, but this is something that we as a country can do. We can have individual negotiations with Turkey. The European Union is in fact the wrong level, I would say, to conduct these negotiations at. Turkey has received a great many people and has thus done a lot of good too. Then there is a rogue regime there that we should put pressure on. But the fact remains that they have helped a great deal. The people who are fleeing to Turkey today need more help from the outside world, and we can give that to them, not through support for Turkey as a country, but mainly through support for the UN and the UNHCR.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-570	Mr President, I would like to I feel like you didn't really answer my question. You want the whole system to be based on countries in the immediate areas of conflict being responsible for those fleeing, which is also the proposal that is now from the European Commission. The first country you come to is the one that will then bear the responsibility. The other countries should do a very much smaller part. You say that Sweden should not do anything, but that the countries in the immediate region should do so. It is based on establishing agreements and becoming completely dependent on countries such as Turkey, but it also talks about countries such as Libya, Egypt, Lebanon and Jordan. The countries around Syria have closed their borders. They don't let people out anymore. Turkey is shooting at people who are still trying to get out of Syria, and it is people who are very much covered by your refugee concept, that is to say, refugees from the Convention. This is reality. That's what it looks like. There's no way to build a tracking system, fluff around a little and say that the countries in the neighborhood are gonna fix this. They obviously don't. They lock people in where people are bombed, run from disgusting terrorist sects, and so on. Turkey has done a lot. But if you seriously believe that Sweden on its own will sit down and negotiate with Turkey and come up with something sensible in this context, it is quite devoid of reality. I would almost call it naive. Reality doesn't look like that.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-574	Mr President, I would like to The countries in the immediate vicinity are the ones that should help. Why have these countries closed their borders? Perhaps because it is a huge commitment that they have been forced into. I understand them. We in the outside world must support these countries and help those who have fled to get the support they need. With Johanna Jönsson's migration policy, it is not those who are trapped in Syria who get help, but it is the lucky ones who have left and who go from safe countries such as Denmark and Germany to Sweden. It is not about the people who are left in Syria or Iraq but about giving privileges to those people who have already made themselves safe. Our support for vulnerable people should be focused in the neighbourhood. We should ensure that Jordan can have more open borders with conflict areas such as Syria. I understand that the borders will be closed if these countries do not receive support, because it poses enormous problems for their communities when hundreds of thousands, in some cases millions, of people flee across borders. There will of course be problems, and then we must be there and help with their reception.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-577	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3 by the Centre Party and otherwise refer to our specific opinion. The lack of people with the right skills is the most important reason why Swedish companies cannot grow. About half of the companies say they have problems recruiting, and one in five recruitment attempts fails completely. The public sector also has enormous problems. It is enough to take a look at Arbetsförmedlingen's place bank to get an insight into how desperate the situation is. The municipality by municipality is looking for teachers, social security secretaries and several other professional groups. The labour shortage includes highly skilled jobs such as IT technicians, doctors and engineers. But there are also missing bus drivers, nurses and cooks. Even employers who hardly require training or experience warn that it is difficult to recruit willing staff. Now that more and more people are retiring, the situation is also becoming more acute. Most people agree that increased labour migration is crucial for there to be the slightest chance of meeting this. Last week I visited Älvdalen. Since last autumn, up to 10 per cent of the population have consisted of asylum seekers living in a military facility out in Tängslet. As I am also affected by the general debate, I assumed that I would get a description of all the problems that this has led to. But I was completely wrong. Instead, I was told how the municipality is struggling to keep as many residents as possible in the municipality. What was experienced as the biggest problems was being held back by government authorities and various rules. Even getting clear answers on crucial issues seemed impossible. Älvdalen is hardly alone in seeing asylum immigration as an important piece of the puzzle to solve challenges that have long been grappled with. A large number of smaller municipalities are pleased that the decline in population has finally stopped, that the closure of schools is once again being threatened, and that for the first time in many years homes are being equipped or new ones are being built. In the past, protesting for the opening of asylum accommodation, there is now a protest against the closure of the same asylum accommodation. In addition to new friends and neighbors moving away, the new bus line, the re-opened country store, the successful football team and a wide range of jobs are also disappearing. This is also part of reality. The older man whose wife died seven years ago and who says that his life has begun anew since he allowed a refugee family to move into the house is also part of the reality. The woman who says that loneliness has decreased and that the cohesion of the village has increased due to the involvement in the reception of refugees is part of the reality. All those who, after a short time in Sweden, work and contribute positively to society and all those who still live because they have a sanctuary in Sweden are also part of reality. Yes, there are major challenges linked to a high level of reception; I say nothing else. But nowadays people seem to be so preoccupied with discussing the negative aspects that they have completely forgotten all the other things. That doesn't mean one is more true than the other. You have to manage to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. There seems to be a general misunderstanding, even in here, that we in the Center Party want to go back to the regulations that were in place before the red-green government made its reverse last autumn. I often get the question whether we want the temporary law that makes it more difficult to seek protection in Sweden to be either permanent or removed prematurely. It seems that many find it difficult to think bigger than that. Let me be clear: we in the Center Party do not want to go back to the old faulty system. We have been putting forward proposals for a long time aimed at renewing and improving the old. What is needed in a rapidly changing world is, of course, political proposals adapted to the new reality. Anything else would be crazy. But that does not mean that we are prepared to accept any changes. Keeping families divided and introducing rules that practically deprive people of the opportunity to seek protection is not improvement but deterioration. Pretending that the situation has been resolved because the number of asylum seekers in Sweden has been temporarily reduced while the situation in our surrounding world, in Syria, Afghanistan, Turkey and also within the EU in many ways is getting worse is completely unreasonable. The entire migration system is incorrectly designed and needs to be redesigned. That's where the power needs to be put. In the past, the Center Party has proposed that we should scrap the Dublin Regulation at European level and instead completely steer towards legal paths with a particular focus on the most vulnerable. The UNHCR and Easo should seek asylum in the EU as a whole, from the immediate vicinity of conflicts, with equivalent reception regardless of which country you end up in. For those who do not have asylum grounds, it must at the same time be easier to look for a job or study in the EU. Trying to trick oneself through the asylum process should not be seen as an option for those who are not in need of protection. We focus on reducing the costs of receiving. We want new arrivals to be given the opportunity to support themselves more quickly, for example by giving municipalities and civil society more power and better opportunities to support their establishment. In addition, we have put forward a wide range of proposals aimed at improving overall labour market matching and creating more jobs. However, we are aware that there are people among both new and old citizens who exploit the systems and avoid doing the right thing. In order to counteract this, we are looking, among other things, at the compensation systems. It should always pay off to work. We also continue to make proposals to address other problems that exist. We have proposed mandatory and increased public information for all asylum seekers, more police officers and more measures to combat radicalisation and honour-related violence and repression. For the Center Party does not apply to one or the other. We see both the positive and the negative. But our proposals will always have their starting point in people's equal rights and value and in our strong belief that openness to the outside world is basically a very good thing.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-603	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing migration policy today. This relates specifically to Category 8 of the budget proposal and the state budget. Liberals have a motion on this. If you want to study in more detail how we want to spend the money in this area, you can go to Parliament's website and look for exercise 2016/ 17:3422. If you want to see what our party thinks about integration and some migration, you can go to our website and read our new integration programme that was adopted a few weeks ago. Mr President, I would like to In the world in which we live, with large flows of refugees, growing populism and great challenges for all our societies in Europe and the world, we in Sweden must take our responsibility and stand up for a humane refugee policy and help people in need. This means, I believe, that we need to develop the quota refugee tool considerably more. A person who is currently in a refugee camp in Lebanon or Turkey, for example, does not have a right of asylum in Sweden, if the person does not come here first and apply for asylum. Through the quota system, we can help people so that they do not have to pay smugglers or go in boats and risk dying in the Mediterranean. We can help vulnerable women, disabled people and children who often do not take the long steps to get as far as Sweden, for example. The quota system is important for the Liberals. We have worked for an increase in the number of resettlement places where Sweden receives in cooperation with UNHCR. The number will increase to 3,400 next year, after which it will increase to 5,000. We would like to see this increased in the future. Sweden should be a country open to immigration. There is a concern that Sweden will not be this in the long term if we get dominant political forces that do not want Sweden to be a country that is open to immigration. For our party, it is extremely important that Sweden is such a country in the long term. There must be support for accepting people who are fleeing and who, for other reasons, seek their way to our country. This means that we must be realistic and meet the major challenges we face in the area of integration. If we do not, Sweden will continue to be a country where there are residential areas where the fire brigade does not dare to pull out because they are being stoned. If we have significant problems with, for example, honorary problems in areas in Sweden and if we have areas that the police cannot go out to in the usual way but must be much more because they are exposed to stones and other drains the support for Sweden to be a country that is open to immigration. We need to understand how this is connected. For our party, it is important that a humanist policy is combined with a realistic policy in order for us to be able to work for Sweden to be an open country in the long term. The report contains a specific opinion from the Liberals, which is in fact a summary of our motion. There we mention that we believe that family reunification is important. If we have a girl or a boy in Syria who is perhaps 12 or 13 years old today, that child should have the right to be reunited with his parents, if they are in Sweden. We have funding for this, when we voted 'no' on 20 June. It is in another area of expenditure in the budget for us – No 13 – while the Christian Democrats have put their costs in this area. The other two parties who voted against family fragmentation have no funding at all. At least our two parties do, but ours is in another area of expenditure. The second point we make in our specific opinion concerns processing times. When more people come to Sweden, it is clear that this means that the processing times at the Migration Agency will be longer. Liberals have proposals in which we believe that we must be able to speed up the process in cases where it is clear that there will be approval or rejection. This applies, in particular, to special leave to appeal. Many people come from countries where there are no wars and conflicts. One may well have asylum reasons anyway, but the rate of rejection is very high. We believe that appeals should be subject to special leave to appeal in these cases. A person who comes from Syria, for example, and who has identity documents, should be able to consent more quickly if there are no security risks with him or her such as having participated in fighting or committing war crimes. It is not reasonable to have situations where people who belong to groups with a support rate of almost 100% may have to wait more than a year for a response. It is not good, it is about the integration process, it breaks down people and so on. To conclude, Mr President, I noted that a previous speaker from the Swedish Democrats felt that he was driven by goodness in his political commitment. It should then be mentioned that it is the only person in this room who in Expressen has been exposed by calling black Africans fucking ape hell and retarded fucking pensioners. I think it is important that we stick together words and deeds and do not beat ourselves to the chest for things where we act exactly the opposite when we get outside this room.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-618	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I should not fall to the same level as Fredrik Malm and distort the truth or, for that matter, exaggerate a thing or two. With regard to Fredrik Malm's speech, I share his view of the quota refugee system. It is probably the best way today to resettle vulnerable people who need help and support elsewhere than in refugee camps. The Swedish democrats therefore have the same picture, that it is a good system. I noticed that Fredrik Malm finds it problematic that, for example, a person fleeing the war in Syria is only granted asylum when the person comes to Sweden and that the person needed to get all the way here. I would therefore like to ask Fredrik Malm if he believes that a person originating in Syria should be entitled to asylum if he goes over the Öresund Bridge.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-621	Mr President, I would like to No one has the right to asylum, but they have the right to seek asylum. If you cross the Öresund Bridge into Sweden, you have the right to apply for asylum here – I think that is logical and reasonable. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to falling to a low level, I have not fallen to any particular level at all. I have quoted what Markus Wiechel has said, and if so, it is his level we are discussing here, not mine. As regards the substance of resettlement and people in camps, there is much talk in the debate about the need to safeguard the right to asylum. I would argue that it is unreasonable to build a migration policy only on this for the reason that the right of asylum in Sweden is given when you come here and apply for asylum, essentially. This means that people who are unable to get all the way to Sweden thus have no right of asylum here. Now that countries are closing their borders and we know that it can be associated with the danger of life to enter Europe in order to seek asylum, the people who are most vulnerable have no right of asylum in Sweden. On the other hand, they are able to come to another country through resettlement under the quota system. It is therefore important that we develop this and increase the number of quota refugees. The answer to the question will, of course, be that a person who is in Lebanon today and cannot get out of there and who is registered with the UNHCR will hopefully be able to get a resettlement place, if the person is so vulnerable. Of course, the vast majority of people do not get such places, but sooner or later they have to return, but they – a number of thousands – who are allowed to come to Sweden every year should be able to be taken from these areas.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-626	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Malm said in his speech that it is important to have a humanist policy and that it should be combined with a realistic policy. I find this a little strange, given that he represents a policy that is neither humanistic nor realistic. With regard to what I mentioned earlier about a person who comes from Denmark to Sweden, that person obviously has the right to apply for asylum today. I don't question that. What I wonder, however, and to which I did not really get an answer, is: If you now come from a safe country and have not fled directly from a conflict, is it really reasonable for that person to get asylum in Sweden? I don't think so. Then it is better to support the people who are in trouble around the world — people who are starving or, for that matter, thirst to death because they do not have clean water. It's better to put the resources there, isn't it? I will make a final comment on various less successful statements. Maybe Fredrik Malm is perfect. He may have spoken perfectly in all private contexts, even in the case of a group of people who burn another group of people of the same ethnic affiliation alive.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-629	Mr President, I would like to No, I haven't called people fucking monkey shit. Nor have I stood here and said so and then demanded that the Moderates apologize to my constituents. Markus Wiechel doesn't have another line now. But perhaps an apology would be appropriate, not least because he demands other parties for excuses here. Note that things are said in the first line, then something else is said in the second line. A person who comes from Denmark to Sweden has the right to apply for asylum. If that person is a Dublin case, is going back to Denmark, is registered in any country and so on, this comes out during the process. Of course, the right to seek asylum is granted. If a person comes from Denmark to Sweden, according to the laws and rules that we have and according to acts within the European Union, he or she shall apply for asylum in Denmark if he or she has come first to Denmark. Otherwise, this person will of course apply for asylum in Germany, Austria and so on, that is, in the country that is the first country of asylum. The important thing in this context is that there are now close to 4.8 million people from Syria alone who are registered refugees in neighbouring countries. It is clear that not all these people will come to Europe or certain other parts of the world. However, a number of thousands of these people will be given resettlement places. It is therefore important that more countries become programme countries with UNHCR and that Sweden receives more. Then we give an opportunity to those people who do not get into boats across the Mediterranean, who do not have the money to pay to smugglers, and it can be sick, disabled, young, children and so on. I believe that this is a very humanist policy. It is important that Sweden now stands up and also that the government acts to also press on other countries, so that they also become programme countries with UNHCR.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-633	Mr President, I would like to Migration policy, which we have in focus during this debate, has had the opportunity and reason to discuss many times in recent years. It has been about the migration agreement, breathing space and refugee break, border and ID controls, the temporary law and negotiations on a new more harmonised migration policy within the EU. From the Christian Democrats' side, we have, of course, kept to this, but also made a lot of own proposals and outlined our own direction for how we want Sweden's migration policy to be shaped. These are proposals that, based on the right of asylum, aim to achieve an orderly, long-term responsible and humane migration policy that offers refuge for people on the run. It is these proposals that form the basis of our motion for Category 8. In order to improve the reception of asylum seekers and improve the efficiency of the asylum process, we propose that asylum application areas be established near our major border crossing points and that anyone intending to apply for asylum in Sweden be referred to there. In these areas, the registration of asylum applications shall take place and accommodation shall be arranged for asylum seekers during the first phase of the asylum investigation. Persons who are clearly not involved in proving their identity, who come from so-called safe countries or who, in accordance with the rules of the Dublin Regulation, should have their asylum application examined in another country should be given a rapid expulsion decision. The same applies to persons who are deemed to be a safety risk. Through a concerted reception and a concerted decision-making process, we would increase the possibility of preventing people from deviating and ending up in a vulnerable situation. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats also propose the introduction of an asylum programme of six months. The idea behind this is to reduce passivity during the period of asylum, but also to speed up both the establishment of the labour market and integration in Sweden by early communicating the norms and values that characterise our society. It is important to make it clear that people who come to Sweden with the intention of staying will learn the Swedish language and our culture and that the starting point is, of course, that you should support yourself and your family. We therefore believe that participation in formal education and social orientation should be offered and required at the beginning of the asylum period. In order for more asylum seekers to work during the period of asylum, we also want asylum seekers to be required to have access to the labour market. At the same time, we have proposals both to make it easier for asylum seekers to work and to strengthen asylum seekers' incentives to work. During the asylum programme, asylum seekers shall also be offered a health examination and, if necessary, an age assessment shall be carried out. Babysitting should be offered, so that the asylum programme also works for parents of young children. And those who do not participate in the asylum programme should be able to receive a reduced daily allowance. In order for such an asylum programme to be launched, we set aside SEK 600 million in our budget for 2017 and SEK 1.2 billion per year for the years thereafter. Mr President, I would like to We also want to see a permanent law with the meaning that all groups of persons in need of protection should initially be granted a three-year residence permit for a limited period of time. If the reasons for protection persist after these three years, or if the person concerned has acquired a job or started his or her own business on which he or she can make a living, a permanent residence permit shall be granted. Furthermore, the Christian Democrats have said that the right to family reunification should apply also to those who need protection who have a temporary residence permit, because it is better that people who come to Sweden focus on establishing themselves in the labour market and in society as soon as possible rather than worrying about their relatives. We are fully aware that this has financial consequences. To finance the deviation from the government's policy on the right to family reunification, we therefore set aside SEK 1.3 billion in our budget for next year. At the same time, we believe that the right to family immigration should apply only to the relatives of whom the asylum seeker has informed at the time of arrival. It is both to facilitate the identification of asylum seekers and to gain better control of reception. Mr President, I would like to Finally, it is important to stress that those who have come to Sweden to seek asylum but who, after an individual and legal review, are not deemed to have sufficient grounds for protection to obtain a residence permit as quickly as possible must return to their home country. Unfortunately, we know that both the return that takes place on its own and the forced expulsions and expulsions that take place are working too badly today. In order to overcome this, it is important that Sweden enters into more readmission agreements with the main countries of origin in order for them to receive their citizens. More resources are needed for the police to be able to execute expulsions and expulsions, and also to a greater extent to carry out internal checks on aliens. There is also a need for more detention places. In our budget for next year, we therefore allocate SEK 60 million more than the government to create more detention sites. And we allocate a total of SEK 520 million in addition to what the government plans to employ more police and civilian employees within the Police Authority. I do not have time in this speech to go through all the proposals contained in the Christian Democrats' motion on the area of expenditure on migration policy. I can simply recommend reading the exercise. This is, of course, a motion that we still support. The same applies to our specific opinion in the report.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-653	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all three reservations to be rejected. This means that I support the Government's proposal for appropriations under Category 8 Migration, which amounts to approximately 33 billion for 2017. Against this are five different proposals from the opposition. There is therefore no uniform proposal from the Alliance. Of course, as we all know, there are still an enormous number of people on the run, probably the largest number ever — over 60 million. The number of asylum seekers in Sweden in 2015 was the largest ever – 163 000 people. I am looking back because this is still what we are also dealing with at the moment in Sweden. Of these 163 000, there were over 35 000 unaccompanied minors. There are about the same number of people in my municipality of residence — 38,000 inhabitants. This far exceeded forecasts as well as existing preparedness. It is clear that we know and must also admit from the majority that we were not prepared for it, and it seems that no other party had either. The Finnish Immigration Service, of course, had difficulty handling the applications and had to devote a lot to reception and registration. As many unaccompanied minors came, the number of investigation-demanding cases also increased. This was done because the handling of applications took longer. To overcome the serious situation, the government and the alliance parties reached an agreement in October 2015 on measures to ensure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers and to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. The fact that I am referring to some of the decisions taken last year is because a number of people here have said that no decisions have been taken. In November 2015, the Government presented further measures to limit the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden by temporarily adapting the asylum rules to the minimum level in the EU and international conventions. The challenges for the Swedish asylum system and other central social functions were considered to be very large last autumn. A more balanced distribution of asylum seekers in the EU was required, as was the responsibility of more Member States. Unfortunately, we could not see that this happened– I assume that in many parties here we are also trying to influence our colleagues in the EU and Europe in general when it comes to taking a greater share of responsibility– and we therefore needed to take action. The measures resulted in the adoption by Parliament of a limited-term law, which entered into force on 20 July this year and is valid until 19 July 2019 at the latest. After two years, it will be evaluated. In November 2015, Sweden introduced temporary internal border control and in January 2016 temporary ID checks were introduced for passengers by bus, train or passenger ship between Sweden and Denmark. Both border and ID controls have been extended by several decisions and are still in force. The number of asylum seekers in Sweden has decreased. The average number of applicants per month in 2016 has until October been around 2,500, and this is probably also the case in November and December. This compares with some weeks in the autumn of 2015 when there were 7 000 – 10 000 people per week. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, it should be pointed out that many non-profit organisations, municipalities and private individuals made and make a fantastic effort to welcome and include new arrivals in Swedish society. That is why society as a whole managed the situation as well as it was possible. When I tell politicians from other countries – I lead a network of Social Democrats in Europe – that all newly arrived children get schooled, they are amazed. On the one hand, few children have come to many of the countries and, on the other hand, few of those who have come alone. These countries see it as impossible, but we know it can be done. The municipalities have taken an enormous responsibility when it comes to, for example, schooling. That is why it is extremely important to increase the funding for welfare. It's connected. If you want an inclusive society, you cannot just think about cutting taxes. That is why the disappointment is great when I see the stacks over the richest municipalities in the country and some of those municipalities say that they cannot accept those who are now granted a residence permit and are to be assigned to housing in the municipalities, which was part of the settlement with the alliance parties. At the same time, we see successful and good projects where you have SFI and vocational training combined with internships. A few weeks ago I was in Malmö and watched the hotel talent program. A large proportion of the new arrivals there come to work very quickly. Sweden will continue to have a humane asylum policy and be a haven for those fleeing persecution and oppression. At the same time, we also have regulated immigration, and it is important that those who do not get asylum as quickly as possible should leave the country. With regard to what has been mentioned about detention places, we have increased the number in order for enforcement to be better. It is still the case that the whole of society must be included in the situation in which we find ourselves. A publication that I have read about living, living and working in Sweden is called Welcome! Among other things, LO, ABF and Tenant Association are one who has developed it. Perhaps more than just new arrivals should read to see what the requirements and conditions are for being considered a good citizen. We have seen in recent days that not even all Members of Parliament have an insight into what this book says. It can therefore be recommended to the majority.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-667	Mr President, I would like to I can see that it sounded quite different a year ago and even more different two years ago when Carina Ohlsson spoke about these issues. The government has turned and Carina Ohlsson's party has turned. A little reluctantly measures have been taken to reduce the flow of asylum seekers to Sweden. There are temporary laws that need to be renewed all the time. It is still reluctant to pursue the policy we are pursuing today, but how long is this going to last? Carina Ohlsson will have to correct me if I am wrong, but I suspect that she wants to return to the most liberal migration policy in Europe.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-669	Mr President, I would like to No, I do not feel at all disappointed by the policy that we are pursuing today, but I think it is extremely important that everyone who exists in Sweden should be included in the society that we have. That is also why, when we saw last autumn that we could not do it, we felt it was important to have this temporary legislation so that everyone should be included. Only when we see that we are able to do so can we look at how the temporary legislation is to be changed and how it is to be after these three years. So I don't feel at all disappointed about it, but I think it's extremely important to invest in welfare, schooling, that more people should get to work and that we should have good finances – I actually feel quite satisfied with that – to really secure and secure the situation for, for example, the unaccompanied children. When you look at it in a context and compare it with many of Europe's countries that are so clearly going in a completely different direction, I think you can feel satisfied with the situation that we have in Sweden so far.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-672	Mr President, I would like to I thought the answer was rather unclear. It seems that Carina Ohlsson wants to return to a previous policy while defending the policy that is being pursued now. Why not permanent border controls, for example, if we now want to limit the flow of asylum seekers and ensure that a sustainable migration policy is maintained? Carina Ohlsson spoke about inclusion. This is interesting given what she said in her speech on municipal placements. Today, the government wants to force municipalities to accept new arrivals and asylum seekers. Local authorities are being forced to commit themselves to a commitment that they claim to not be able to meet, while at the same time promoting better inclusion. This doesn't make any sense. In addition, it means a substantial restriction of local self-determination. She'd be happy to clarify the answer a little. How can mandatory legislation get people to be included in society when the municipalities themselves say they cannot do it? Is it really not worth permanent border controls, for example?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-676	Mr President, I would like to In Markus Wieche l's speech you could hear many words and concepts such as justice, goodness, that one should build with common sense and inclusion. When Markus Wiechel mentioned those concepts, they were completely meaningless. But you have to build on content, and then you have to fix the situation that you have. The people who are here should of course be included. That is why I am disappointed that not everyone feels the same way. But it could have something to do with ideology. It may also have to do with the policy that Markus Wiechel is taking place. You don't see it as an asset when it comes to the age structure of municipalities. Maybe here you bite your tail. What looks good at the moment may not be so good in the long term because you have an ageing population and because the municipality should be able to be supported with labour and so on. I think that more people should reflect on the development both in the municipalities and in the country as a whole. There should, of course, be an opportunity for inclusion. Then we cannot decide from the Riksdag. It is municipal self-government that applies. But we can set the rules. The municipalities receive quite a lot of funding nationally, state grants and other things, so that you can manage in different ways, with both carrots and whips, both with grants and with legislation covering all municipalities. It is possible to make decisions from here that affect the municipalities in that direction.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-679	Mr President, I would like to Carina Ohlsson is not only the spokesperson of the Social Democrats here today on migration policy issues, she is also the chairman of S-women. It's gonna be a little confusing for me. We've met in different contexts, and you say completely different things. It is difficult to respect or understand this. You said in February that we in S-women want permanent residence permits and the right to family ties, we will follow up on the proposals and discuss them. I can understand a difficult situation when it comes to the reception of refugees, I have been talking to local politicians, you have to fix a lot locally. But it will be very difficult for the many refugees who are not allowed to bring their families here, and you cannot feel satisfied with that. At the same time, we heard here in the line with Markus Wiechel that you are now satisfied with the policy of temporary residence permits and where families are divided. What exactly does Carina Ohlsson stand for? Do you think it is right with the temporary law on temporary residence permits and family fragmentation, or do you not?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-683	Mr President, I would like to Just as Johanna Jönsson quoted me, that I would work so that there would not be that change, we have had a discussion about with the minister concerned, Morgan Johansson. Maybe he's bringing it up today, too. We are looking at the quota refugee system and increasing the number of quota refugees. In this case, we can see whether legal paths are possible and whether family reunification is possible. We have the reality that we have. It must also be good for those who are already here. Sometimes it's impossible to reconcile everything at once. But, of course, we shall all together look at the temporary legislation after two years and see what it has looked like. How many of the relatives of those who came earlier than last November have been able to come here? I will look at that evaluation and follow developments. If Johanna Jönsson feels confused by what I say, it may be mutual. Right now, I don't know where the Center Party stands. But maybe Johanna Jönsson can tell me. When it comes to family migration and such things, it can be good if Johanna Jönsson and the Center Party made a clear statement. There I have heard a little different about the temporary legislation and so on.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-687	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, Carina Ohlsson was in the room just when I spoke. I made it quite clear that the Center Party does not support proposals that are about breaking up families. We have established in a variety of contexts – among other things in our budget – that we will of course stand up for families to be kept together. I find it strange that you, as the person responsible for these issues in the Social Democrats, have become confused, given that we have extremely clear in so many contexts. But you are welcome to share after the debate of what you have misunderstood or if you have heard anything else. I myself have not heard anything like that at all. Carina Ohlsson says to take the discussion and push it forward. Is this a discussion that we have here? There are a lot of people listening to this conversation right now and listening to your speech just now. Do you feel that in your speech you argued for and took the discussion about getting permanent residence permits – this to protect the children now being separated from their parents and to provide them with security? This applies to all children, not just those who are in the country. Do they feel that you took that discussion well in your speech and in this conversation?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-690	Mr President, I would like to After all, not all the discussions are taking place in this very debate. I also said that I am leading a group of the Social Democrats throughout Europe where I have tried quite often to influence the other countries. As I said, it is not simply, even Social Democrats are not always able to influence them to take greater responsibility. After all, European countries have received very few unaccompanied minors when it comes to family ties. It is not only in this House that the discussions are taking place. The uncertainty that I have about the Center Party I understood in a debate between Morgan Johansson and Annie Lööf on the temporary legislation. I didn't think it was clear where the Center Party stands. But Johanna Jönsson offered that I could check with her after the debate to find out exactly where the Center Party stands on the various issues. Within S-women, whom I also represent, and at different levels I will take this discussion. It is also related to the local level. We need to get through it in order to change the temporary legislation. It is only if we manage at local level to include people that we can get another legislation after the three years. At least that's my faith and conviction. Everyone needs to be helped here, just as we are now doing with idea-based organisations, municipalities, government agencies and politicians. Only then will we be able to make that change.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-694	Mr President, I would like to A great deal has happened over the last year in terms of migration policy. The war in Syria continues, the fighting in Mosul in Iraq is ongoing, mass graves are discovered and terrible testimonies of death and torture come to the attention of the outside world. In Afghanistan, the situation is deteriorating, and in many other countries of the world, wars, oppressive dictators, poverty and hopelessness are forcing people to flee. Over 65 million people are on the run in the world, and most of them are internally displaced people in their own countries. Just a few years ago, this figure was 50 million, which was also an unimaginably large figure. But now there are 65 million people on the run in the world. However, very few refugees are still able to reach Europe. After last year's unusually high figures, the number reaching Europe is now lower, and the number reaching Sweden is very low. This is not because the reasons for fleeing are less or less acute, but because it is more difficult to get there. Many things have an impact: border controls across Europe, EU agreements with Turkey to send people back there, physical walls built around Europe, closed borders outside Europe and much more. For example, it is now more difficult for refugees to get out of Syria because neighbouring countries have closed their borders with Syria. Last year we in Sweden were extremely disappointed by the EU's inability to take responsibility when it was really needed. Many countries still do not accept refugees, despite the fact that there has been a common EU migration policy for many years. Last year, EU Member States agreed that 160 000 people would be redeployed from Italy and Greece. But so far not many thousands have actually been redistributed. What the European Union agrees on on paper is having enormous difficulty in becoming a reality. This in itself is very problematic for the legitimacy of European cooperation as a whole. We need a shared responsibility and a Europe in which all countries help with reception, where all countries have legally secure, effective and humane asylum systems and where the values that we as Member States have signed are also upheld. Here it is important that the Swedish Government push for a more harmonised system in which all countries take joint responsibility for people on the run and where the right to asylum is safeguarded and reception conditions improved. A year ago, the government had also just presented proposals for a temporary more restrictive policy. The inability of the EU to take responsibility, a very strained situation of the authorities and an increasingly populist policy of the opposition led to this. For the Green Party, it was a very difficult decision, but the political best is not always the politically possible one. We saw great risks in that even more restrictive policies would otherwise become a reality. Temporary migration legislation shall be in place for a maximum period of three years, during which the reception shall be improved and the establishment accelerated. We must equip Sweden to manage a good reception both in times when there will be many and in times when it will get. We've made it before, and we're going to make it now too. Historically many people are in the reception systems. It is important that those who are granted approval can quickly establish themselves in a municipality, learn Swedish and find a job. Now there is a law in place that means that all Swedish municipalities will help with the reception of refugees, and it is important to ensure that this law is complied with. Otherwise, the establishment of those concerned will be delayed and made more difficult. More people should be able to learn Swedish at asylum accommodation from day one, skills mapping should be carried out and asylum seekers should be able to get in touch with working life. The government has also begun work to enable more people to work from day one in the country. There are bureaucratic obstacles which make this difficult and which need to be dealt with and removed. The Government has also presented measures to improve return work. More detention places, clear rules for which authority is responsible and workplace inspections are some of the measures to make return work more effective. However, the vast majority return on their own, which is obviously positive. Many asylum seekers who come here have experiences with them in their luggage that they need care for. That is why money is allocated to the budget for trauma care for asylum seekers and new arrivals. A national knowledge centre for unaccompanied minors is also established. Last year Sweden received 35 000 unaccompanied minors. This is not, from a European perspective, a larger proportion than we have previously received. However, there are a larger number of people because so many came last autumn. We have a well-developed reception for unaccompanied minors and need to gather and disseminate the knowledge of this in the country. This year, the reception of quota refugees will also increase to reach 5,000 people annually in 2018. The reception of quota refugees is important for people in permanent refugee situations to start a real life. Although refugee camps in the immediate vicinity of the war are important in the acute phase – and important to support with resources – they are something needed to survive but not a place where you can live. This budget provides funds to the Finnish Immigration Service, the courts and other authorities to be able to process asylum applications and appeals well and to improve reception. Sweden must take a great responsibility for the reception of refugees. We shall be an international example. At a time when right-wing populism is receiving more and more political support in Sweden and abroad, it is most important to stand up for absolutely fundamental values such as democracy, development and human rights. Values that have been seen as absolutely self-evident are now being questioned. Therefore, Sweden needs to be clear with its direction and what we stand for. Sweden should be a country that stands up for human rights, forces other countries to do so as well and actually sees how openness and development go hand in hand. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-707	Mr President, I would like to It has now been just over a year since the government presented measures to, as it itself described, put Sweden's asylum rules at the EU minimum level and create a breathing space in the reception of refugees. These measures were presented by Stefan Löfven and Åsa Romson at a press conference. We all know the background to this. Sweden lacked a sustainable migration policy. Although the Prime Minister only a few weeks earlier at a public meeting was clear that Europe would not build any walls really caught up with the government as well. However, I would argue that the refugee crisis is not over, as I said in my main speech. This year 30 000 people are expected to come to Sweden. It's like an average year before the crisis. Family immigration is added. The legislation mentioned by Maria Ferm in her speech is temporary. It will expire by 2019. We will be there quite soon, and that raises an important issue. What will the future of Swedish migration policy look like? As soon as this is mentioned, the universal answer from the government is that the EU is working on this. It's true. Work is under way in the EU. It is equally true that it is still very unclear what it will actually result in. For example, many countries are opposed to a compulsory redistribution mechanism. Despite what happens or does not happen at EU level, I think many people wonder what the Swedish Government thinks. What are the views of the two government parties? It's actually a pretty simple question. Do you think that laws and rules should be changed, and how? Or is everything going to go back to what was going on in the past? For example, we can take temporary residence permits. Does the Green Party believe that this should continue to apply in Sweden?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-713	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the question! When various debaters refer to the negotiations at EU level, it is a question of these negotiations likely to affect Sweden's legislation in such a way that the question of whether we can go back to exactly the same thing as in the past may not be relevant at all. Temporary residence permits are such a thing. There, discussions at EU level may well lead to no country being able to have permanent residence permits. In this case, the line from the Swedish Government has been to be able to have more generous rules that mean that there should be permanent residence permits. It is nothing new in Sweden and nothing that only Sweden operates. This also exists in a number of other EU countries. However, there have always been possibilities for temporary residence permits in Sweden as well. But then there have been temporary reasons for protection or non-continuous conflicts that do not give reason to stay permanently. It is simply a question of these discussions at European level being extremely important. It is also extremely important that Sweden is a clear voice and that we push for all countries to take joint responsibility, for us to have a more harmonised system and for not only some countries in Europe to take the absolute greatest responsibility. Everyone's here to help. We also need to work to ensure that other countries respect the regulatory framework that is already in place but also improve reception conditions in their own countries. That is not the case today. Many people do not live up to the legislation that already exists and do not have effective and legally secure asylum systems in place. That's where we need to push. A more equal reception across the EU will also improve the distribution of people in need of protection.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-718	Mr President, I would like to Maria Ferm is many words, yet very few words about the very essence of my question. I agree with one thing: it is important to be clear. I fully understand that we may not have jointly prepared answers for a long time to come. Maybe it'll come in due time. But at least you can have an opinion yourself. That is what my question was about. I know that work is going on in Europe. But let us remember that the EU is actually its Member States. It is the various governments across Europe that are now to discuss and hopefully come to a joint decision. The question then arises: What does the government think? The proposal that exists means that one should have an opportunity. I know about it. But it's not the same as wanting it to be in one way or another. My question concerns what Maria Ferm and the Green Party think. Should Sweden continue to have a temporary residence permit? I can extend the question. Should you have a strong supply requirement for family migration? After all, the previous requirement involved about 1% of all cases. Then you don't have a supply requirement. These are fairly straightforward and clear questions to which I believe the voters have the right to be answered, particularly as Maria Ferm herself talks about the importance of clarity. Surely it cannot be that the government and government parties have no opinion on the most important issue at the moment in Swedish migration policy, which is said to be the most important issue in itself when voters are asked to tell us what they think is central to the political debate. Can it really be that way?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-722	Mr President, I would like to The reason why I described a little about how the negotiations are done at European level and the process ahead of us in the coming years is that this will have a huge impact. I also described what the Swedish Government's line is in those negotiations, namely that we should be able to have a more generous line in some parts and be able to have the possibility of permanent residence permits. This is very clear. Temporary legislation will automatically be repealed in three years' time. That is how the legislation is constructed. As far as the Green Party is concerned, it goes without saying that we want a humane policy. We want families to be reunited. We want them to have the practical opportunities to do so. We think it is important that you have security and security and that you know that you can stay in a country for a long time, so that you can start the establishment in a good way. All of these things are obvious to us. It is just as obvious that we should work towards a system whereby all the Member States of the European Union take joint responsibility. We believe that many countries need to take responsibility when many people are on the run. It is not enough if it is only Sweden and Germany, but we need to ensure that there are far more of us who are helping. It is not good enough if the countries in the immediate vicinity of Syria take all responsibility and the EU does nothing, but we need to be many to ensure that people are protected in this situation. Sweden should be an international example. We're going to have a humane policy. We shall be able to take a great responsibility for people on the run in the future, and that is what we are working for.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-727	Mr President, I would like to I was not particularly surprised by what Maria Ferm mentioned in her speech. I would therefore try to focus on clarifying the priorities of the Green Party and the government. Last year, the reception of asylum seekers broke record by far, as everyone knows. That is why I was going to try to be reasonably fair and back to the situation about a year ago and the calculations made then. As you know, the UN is doing an amazing job of supporting vulnerable people around the world. A year ago, they demanded 70 billion to help some 12 million people flee the world. Unfortunately, they only managed to collect half of this money. However, the government budgeted 80 billion for Swedish refugee aid. That would help 78 000 refugees. Maria Ferm mentioned that over 65 million people around the world are on the run. The UN would help 12 million of them. The government with its 80 billion would help 78 000. This feels like a very strange distribution. How do the Green Party and the government think if they really want to help people escape?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-733	Mr President, I would like to The situation in Syria's immediate vicinity is becoming extremely difficult. It has really been very difficult for a number of years. It goes without saying that this is where the vast majority of refugees are. These are countries which are in a much worse position than the much more prosperous countries in Europe to take care of refugees. That's what it looks like. The vast majority of refugees are refugees in their own countries or have made their way out of the war to the immediate region. Therefore, the UNHCR has also been pushing for increased resettlement for many years. You can see that these are people who will be here for a long time under very difficult conditions. Even if a number of millions were to be added, nothing could work permanently. Therefore, more countries need to help with resettlement so that people can start a real life. The fact that many people remain in the immediate vicinity of the war under difficult conditions is also something that can cause the conflicts to worsen or spread. That is why more countries need to help. But that does not mean that we should not help even in the refugee camps that are in the neighbourhood. That's something we do too. Sweden is one of the world's largest donors to UNHCR. This is something important to do. At the same time, we need to work to ensure that countries that are much better placed to help people through resettlement also do so to a greater extent. This is an area where the Member States of the European Union are lacking in their responsibilities. Few Member States are assisting and participating in the UN resettlement programme. Considerably more could have done so. This would also help more people and improve the situation in those countries.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-738	Mr President, I would like to It's really very simple math we're talking about. I'm not great at math, I'll admit it. However, the UN requested 70 billion to meet a commitment to help 12 million people. They got about half the money. So 6 million people are not being helped. The government prioritises 78 000 people. In what way are these people, who have travelled through a number of safe countries, worth more than all the people sitting in the UN refugee camps? These are very strange priorities when one claims to represent the line of protecting human life and helping people who are on the run. We in the Swedish Democrats can, thanks to our priorities, remove a little over 12 1⁄2 billion from the migration area. Yet we are helping more people escape. How can the Green Party, no matter what you may spend your money on, defend a policy that does not help people in need of life?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-740	Mr President, I would like to The essence of much of this is about something you just described, Markus Wiechel. You said it's about math and it's that simple. No, it's not as simple as you could just move that money to another country and receive it there, and then all the problems would be solved. That is also why your budget is relatively realistic and naive. If it were that simple, people might already have done it, but that's not the case. You would create completely different problems. People would still not be able to remain in those countries. They are already about to perish because they have to take exactly all the responsibility. That is why other countries also need to help. Last autumn, EU Member States started implementing a more restrictive policy. Many Member States did so. They introduced border controls, and then agreements were concluded with Turkey. It was after that that the countries in the immediate region began to close their borders with Syria. People simply did not get along because other countries did not help. Now, instead, people are trapped in Syria in war and cannot get out. What would change the situation and the opportunity for those people to get out of the war is if more countries helped. That is why we are working hard to achieve joint responsibility within the European Union. That doesn't mean it's simple. This does not mean that all the other EU Member States are in favour of this. On the contrary, right-wing populist parties, among other things, have great influence in many countries. This means that we need to work harder to stand up for fundamental values such as people's right to life or to protection from war.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-745	Mr President, I would like to I have deep respect for Maria Ferm. She is both knowledgeable and very committed to migration issues. Her work has led to a lot of good in this area. I am glad that she continues to be involved in these issues. On the other hand, I am concerned about the role that the Green Party plays in the development of this area and also in the debate on society. Since last autumn, I have chosen not to devote so much energy to criticising the Green Party, largely because of Maria Ferm. I know that she is trying to do a lot of good in the context where she is. The new mouthpiece Isabella Lövin has in many different contexts sounded just like a social democrat. She's trying to avoid questions. She just refers to others taking more responsibility. I have no confidence that she is doing a sensible job in this area. It worries me. The role of the Green Party in the public debate has been very important. I see how voice after voice has quieted after the Green Party changed foot and stopped speaking outwardly about this. People need help with the argumentation and to feel that they are part of something greater and are not alone in defending what is right. The Green Party is increasingly becoming a sinker, and I am concerned about that. I therefore wonder how Maria Ferm views this situation.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-750	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johanna, for what you say! I think the same applies to a large extent to you and the Center Party at all in relation to migration issues in particular. As regards the role of the Green Party in the political debate, there is broad agreement within our party on the importance of these issues. Human rights and environmental issues are the most fundamental issues for those who choose to engage in the Green Movement. That is also why the temporary legislation is something that has touched so many in the party. It is something that has made us have had many and long processes on how to take the policy forward. We really believe that we need to work very hard within the government and around all municipalities with the establishment policy and how we make it work. It is about speeding up processes and ensuring that people come out into work and into society. It is also important in order to obtain social support to be able to return to a more humane migration policy than international law requires. I think Carina Ohlsson was into something similar earlier. It's about getting society with you somewhere. That is how we talk about the issues in the debate very important. We hope that we will also now take an important role in government and ensure that we have another discussion on migration issues. This is absolutely essential in order to be able to see a different policy in the future. Refugees and migration are now described as security problems across Europe. There is something we need to turn around.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-757	Mr President, I would like to My experience is not at all that the Green Party is now clearly taking the debate outwardly. I'm sure you talk a lot inside or when you meet your local politicians. I'm convinced of that. M steam environmental party politicians and members are in touch with me and are deeply disappointed that the Green Party has given up on these issues. That is what they seem to see, and that is what my question is about. It's about the social debate. How does it affect that your party has stopped talking about this and stopped taking a clear line outwards? You have given it up in order to remain in government and, in this context, perhaps be able to influence the margin. We see that in different contexts that you do. There will be some investigation here and there that perhaps in some year or so will come up with something sensible. That's influencing the margin. It can mean a difference for some people. At the same time, however, the whole debate on society is spinning in the wrong direction. You're not there anymore. There, many of your members, but also people who have just felt that they are close to you on these issues, no longer have any support. So they have quieted down and began to wonder: ‘ Is it that I might have been wrong? It's serious for real. That is what my question is about. It's not about how we can secure anything in the long term. It's about the social debate. In the Saturday interview, Isabella Lövin avoided these questions altogether and pushed them away to talk about the environment. Environment is also important. But when you back down and avoid the discussion, you also affect society, not just your government.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-761	Mr President, I would like to I can be clear and say that I disagree. We are talking about these issues very externally and of course internally. Perhaps you talk about the issues in a different way at all if you are in government. I am sure that was the case for the Centre Party last parliamentary term. It is part of the consequence of talking with others and getting along with others. It is not just about the formation of opinion, but also about what is achieved in concrete terms. It is about the steps you take that then become reality. It also means something. It's extremely important. That's why I'm engaged politically. It is about what we manage to achieve and how it affects people. Sometimes it is a question of backward steps that you manage to prevent or step forward that you manage to implement. That's why we're all here. Of course, some are also opinion-forming. We all agree on how important it is to talk about the issues and stand up for human rights. We want to work in the future to bring about a change in policy, which means more humanity than international law requires. In order to do so, we and all the other parties that stand up for progressivity and development in a Sweden and in a Europe that otherwise seems to look back and become more protectionist. That is definitely something to take seriously. We are all needed in this. It is just to fight even harder to reverse the debate but also to bring about real political changes in the meantime. It is not just a question of investigations that may become something in a few years' time, but important things that are happening all the time.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-766	Mr President, I would like to There is a reality behind the area we are debating today. It is a reality that has not been fully present in some of the speeches we have heard so far. I understand it's hard to absorb. Yet this is what reality demands of us – that we do not pretend that it does not exist simply because we no longer see it as clearly in our own reality. It is said time and again here that we are living with the greatest refugee disaster in modern times. The Moderate Forssell often repeats that it is not over. No, it's not over. And we can only say that we know what people are running from. In real time we see the attacks on Aleppo and the lifeless children are dug out of the ruins. We follow the battles around Mosul and the discovery of new mass graves. We hear about the terrorist attacks in Kabul and see the Taliban reign of terror. We see, and we know, all of this. But if we really realize that historically many people in the world are on the run, it also requires a historical response from us and from our society. We cannot possibly expect long-standing wars and violent terror on the doorstep of Europe to be seen here. We also know that the refugee disaster is not a disaster for us, but for the 65 million people who are fleeing for their lives. We know that an absolute majority of the world's refugees, as many as 86%, are in the world's poorest countries. The greatest victories of mankind – these are those we are talking about today. They came from the ashes of mankind's greatest crime in the realization that a common civilisation is needed to protect each other from genocide, torture, the slaughter of war and political and religious persecution. It was part of the international community's debt to those who have fallen victim to the genocide and persecution of the Second World War to promise each other not to let it happen again. Our human rights and our right to asylum rest on that promise. It is quite easy to keep this promise on sunny days of peace and freedom. But when the winds blow cold and wars and persecution rage... then it's the case. If it were simple, we would not have had to create these rules to safeguard the human right to life and protection. It is now that historic steam needs protection that our promise is really being tested. Then, in all honesty, it is completely hair-traveling to see how Europe and Sweden have chosen to act over the past year. The human rights that generations have laboriously built together are under threat. The incoming Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, has clearly said the obvious: the world is not better off if more people make mistakes. More people need to do the right thing. The Swedish decision to first introduce border controls and ID controls and then, by means of the temporary law, go to the minimum level of the EU does not only mean that one of the countries in Europe that has previously gone ahead in many respects stopped doing so. This meant that more people followed in Sweden's footsteps. With Sweden at the forefront, more and more people began to make mistakes. We now see the result: closed borders through Europe and a Turkey agreement that puts a regime that is becoming increasingly dictatorial to act as a border guard. The borders between Turkey and Syria are closed, as are those from Jordan and Lebanon. The European Commission puts forward proposals that in many ways cement the minimum levels. What is at stake is nothing more than the right of asylum. Why should the poorest countries in the world, which represent the greatest refugee reception, continue to keep their borders open to the need for protection if not one of the richest regions in the world, the EU? We have repeatedly heard the government say that the reversal would make other countries in the EU do more. It obviously has not worked at all. The Green Party is pleased and proud of the budget that we have managed to reach agreement with the government. It represents in many ways a different focus on policies of reforms that prioritise and strengthen the welfare system and take important steps to level out people's living conditions. On the other hand, it is no secret that the Left Party is not behind either the restrictions on refugee policy contained in the Migration Agreement or the Temporary Act. We want to see another migration policy – a policy that stands up for the right of asylum and puts human rights at the centre. We know that a strong and general welfare is the basis for a functioning reception and a fairer and equal society – a society that can grow. We know that it requires an economic policy that is for everyone and a tax system that closes the gaps that have been growing in Sweden for a long time. We will discuss this much more during the integration debates next week. Having said that, I agree with the proposal for the allocation of appropriations put forward by the committee in the report.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-778	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by thanking the committee for its sympathetic treatment of the Government's proposal on Category 8. Let me also thank you for an interesting debate this afternoon. In a way, it is fascinating that Johan Forssell and Johanna Jönsson do not understand that, with the way they act in the debate, they make a future bourgeois government impossible. The further out they go in their respective directions, the harder it will be for them to solve the problems together. It is clear if the debate has been followed that the Alliance on these issues is completely dead. How in the world should you be able to control Sweden when you can't even control yourself? The position of the Center is hard to understand in itself. Just a few weeks ago, I was in a debate with Annie Lööf on TV. Then she said very clearly that the temporary law is established. We're not going to change it before 2019, she said. I understand that when I read your motions, because you're not suggesting that you tear up the temporary law. If you had, you would have had to put money into it. And you haven't. The position of the Centres is, as I understand it, that the temporary law remains in place until 2019. You do not want to change it in this part. Last year we were in the middle of dealing with the most difficult refugee crisis that we have been going through since World War II. A total of 163 000 people came in last year, of which over 100 000 in the last four months. Some weeks came over 10,000. We concluded then that it could not go on like that. We could not do this if it were to continue month after month, week after week in this way. That is why we had to carry out what we did: the ID checks. Three out of four bourgeois parties abstained from voting on them. One party voted against, namely the Centre Party. The government introduced the border controls and then the temporary law. It was, in my opinion, absolutely necessary decisions to take. Without this, our reception would have collapsed in the spring, and we would not have had a chance to cope with integration over. Now we did this, but we also went in with measures to be able to cope with the establishment in the future. We gave SEK 10 billion more to the municipalities in order to be able to deal with, among other things, the situation with welfare. 85 000 people have been able to participate in study circles and have started to learn Swedish from the first day of asylum accommodation through the grants we gave to the study associations. The school hall, that is, money for children's schooling for asylum seekers, increased by 50 percent. We have strengthened the school in Sweden in general with 13 000 more employees during these two years, among other things in order to improve study results but also to be able to go in with increased support at all. We now have preschools where children who are four, five, six years old learn Swedish in just a few weeks. This is a fantastic development in many places. Now we are also going through all the asylum applications that we have to deal with from last year. Let's cut the lines. We'll bite them off afterwards. The Finnish Immigration Service will make over 100,000 decisions this year. That's the greatest number ever. About half of those decided on so far will be granted a residence permit. Let me say then: I am absolutely convinced that Sweden will be doing quite well for the people who are now receiving a residence permit. Why can I say that? Yes, because they are now working on the strongest labour market we have had in our country for many years. We have reversed developments in the labour market. We've done it. Unemployment is falling. Long-term unemployment is declining. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. We've got 120,000 new jobs in just two years. We have 100,000 vacancies right now. In many ways we have a labour market where people are being yelled at. Those who are now granted a residence permit will be able to enter the strongest labour market, as I said, for many years. In addition, we have had a turnaround in housing construction, which has been up. Right now, we're building more housing than we've done in 40 years. We are starting with over 60,000 new homes this year. I read about my home municipality of Lund. They're building over 800 apartments. You have to go back to the '60s to find something similar. That's what happens. Some municipalities, such as Ekerö and Täby, say: No, but we can't. Then my simple question is: Why can you manage to build in Lund but not in Ekerö and Täby? Why are only the Social Democratic municipalities capable of building? Why are the moderate municipalities unable to build? We have a discussion when it comes to getting out to the municipalities. I know there are problems in some places. In that case, municipalities should also know that the state is leaving approximately 40 000 asylum homes in the coming months. There will thus be plenty of properties to rent for those municipalities that want to do so, if they want to have access to new places. But after all, this is how it is: If there is a will to solve this, the vast majority of municipalities solve this. Mr President, I would like to One lesson is that a country can do a lot. Since 2011, when the war in Syria broke out, we have protected 143 000 Syrians. Sweden is the most protected country in the EU. This is our greatest humanitarian effort ever. Then one of the lessons is that a country can do a great deal. But another lesson is that one country cannot do everything. That is our starting point when we look at how we should do things in Europe overall. It is incredibly important that we now continue to work towards a functioning European policy which, in my opinion, is based on at least three points of view. The first is that we are safeguarding the right to asylum and that we are not letting the right-wing racist forces in Europe in some places blow away fundamental human rights and freedoms. It is a question of maintaining the Geneva Convention and safeguarding the right to asylum. The second is that all EU countries must actually be prepared to receive. It is a difficult negotiation that we are currently having with some EU countries. The third is that we are also opening up more legal paths directly from the refugee camps to the EU. Mr President, I would like to I understand that the bourgeois will want to continue to talk about crisis, at least the Moderates. I no longer use the word crisis, at least not for Swedish. I am fully aware that we see a crisis when we look out into the world when it comes to the refugee situation, but I no longer use the word crisis for Swedish. We're in control of progress. Now it is about establishing and ensuring that those who can stay get a good reception. It is about that they can get jobs, that there are housing and that there is schooling for the children. Basically, I'm actually very optimistic. We will be able to do this if we help each other.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-798	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Migration lists municipalities that are unable to provide housing for the new arrivals. It was probably just a municipality that was not mentioned: the City of Stockholm. It is also the country's largest municipality. If the Minister for Migration is unsure of the political residence there, I can recommend Google. It is also a municipality that procures hotel rooms on a broad front. It would be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Migration thinks that the problem of housing shortages should be solved by purchasing hotel rooms. Well, this debate has revolved around many different issues: the development of the world, what happened last autumn, the situation of new arrivals, the shortcomings in integration and so on. Nevertheless, it is a report that concerns migration, and there is one issue that I would say overshadows everyone else in that context: the future. I have just made an attempt with the Green Party, and I am very curious to hear the views of the Social Democrats on this. The law expires no later than 2019 – there have been a little different bids on this point from the government parties. If nothing is done, then we risk a situation in which we will return to the previously unsustainable migration policy. I mean, that would be a mistake. I am concerned when Morgan Johansson now tells me that there is no longer a crisis. We still have 100 000 people waiting to hear about asylum. I would say that we have a crisis in integration that we have still only seen the beginning of. It is in itself grateful that Morgan Johansson says that this only applies now; the Prime Minister already said in December last year that the crisis was over. But does Morgan Johansson believe that Sweden, even after the law has expired, should have a temporary residence permit as a general rule?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-802	Mr President, I would like to What distinguishes Stockholm from a couple of other municipalities, such as Ekerö and Täby, is that Stockholm has not refused. It has been said that we will solve this task. We have also been prepared to meet the local government sector by saying that, in terms of the investments made in 2016, it will be given another two months. So it will be four months in total. We will also write down the municipal numbers, so to speak, for next year. We can do this in the light of the new forecast. We will make it easier for the local government sector. But what distinguishes Stockholm from these municipalities is that Stockholm has not said no. Ekerö has done that. Täby has done that. In fact, it is primarily moderate municipalities. My question to Johan Forssell is: When does Johan Forssell intend to take his leadership seriously? He is a member of the Swedish Parliament. He pressed the button when we adopted the instruction law. When will he and the moderate party leadership take their leadership seriously in relation to the moderate municipalities that now say no? I read an article yesterday by a moderate Member of Parliament who thought you should drop this agreement. Let's hope that's not the case. My view is that if you can build in all other municipalities, you must reasonably be able to build in moderate municipalities as well. Or is it particularly hard ground there so you can't put a shovel in it? Johan Forssell has a task here, and that is to honour the agreement we have made and to ensure that moderate municipalities also solve the task. Then there is the future. Of course this is a difficulty. I have always said that our starting point is that we should be able to go back to the old legislation and that this is a temporary law. On the other hand, we also know that there is a European process going on, as Maria Ferm said. I am absolutely convinced that if we are to be able to solve this properly, we must have a European solution. Then we will have to try to get our positions through that process, and then we will see where we land.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-809	Mr President, I would like to The fact remains. The City of Stockholm also believes in its internal documents that it will not be able to cope with the quota allocated this year. No matter how much the Minister of Migration talks around it, it's hard to get away from it. That is why the whole description of reality is completely incorrect. Morgan Johansson makes it sound like there are a small number of moderate municipalities that don't want when in fact there are a very large number of municipalities around Sweden, of different political colors, who say that they want but that it can't. It is very difficult in a very short time to arrange large amounts of housing for new arrivals. It's easier in some municipalities. I would say that it is probably the most difficult thing in the metropolitan regions, for obvious reasons. The majority of the city of Stockholm wants to rent hotel rooms, while party friends in Malmö buy residential apartments. Does Morgan Johansson think this is a good way to solve this? Is it a long-term sustainable solution to the housing situation for new arrivals? We have tabled 30 joint proposals on behalf of the Alliance, and I would like to stress that last year's agreement made it very clear that there would be regulatory simplifications for municipalities. The government points with the whole hand but ties the municipalities' ability to take responsibility. When will that work start? When is this coming? We have proposed to change the migration taxes, to shorten the appeal process, to limit the ownership of property and to simplify the renting of private homes. We also have national interests, the system of nature reserves and beach protection and so on. There are 30 proposals from the Alliance. When are Morgan Johansson and the government going to take the outstretched hand and start delivering? It is easy to stand in the speaker's chair and say that there are a few stupid Moderates over there who do not take their responsibilities. Quite seriously, the Minister for Migration: politics must be more than that. Give the right tools from the Swedish government and ensure that more municipalities also have an opportunity to receive. It is not the will that is lacking.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-816	Mr President, I would like to We are happy to develop tools, and we have also said that we are moving forward with regulatory simplifications in terms of building permits. But it's not just about that. I've been on a construction board in Lund 20 years ago. Our chairman of the Buildings Board, Social Democrat Gunnar Jönsson, had a mantra that he repeated over and over again: We must be ready to plan. Then, in the mid-90s, the residential building as we know was quite low. The interest rates were high. Many questioned why we should develop detailed plans when the construction was so low. Well, we have to be ready to plan, because sooner or later it turns around, and then you have to be able to put the shovel in the ground right away. That is why so much can now be built in Lund and elsewhere – detailed plans have been developed. If you think a little longer than your nose, you can do this. But Täby, Danderyd, Ekerö and the others have not. They haven't built in years. They have also said no to new arrivals many times from the beginning. Their whole political idea has been that they don't want poor people in the municipality: We don't build rents, and we don't accept new arrivals. We still have our little moderator here, and we're not going to build away our own majority. That is the principle that we are now about to break through. Everyone must be prepared to receive new arrivals. If we are able to build in other municipalities in the rest of the country, I am sure that we are able to do so in these municipalities as well. If we return to talking about the future, I think that if we are to cope with this situation in the short term, we must have a common European solution, and that is exactly what the government is now working for. That solution is based on the same principle as we have here at home, namely that everyone must be prepared to take responsibility, including those governed by other political leaders.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-822	Mr President, I would like to When the government chose to introduce both border-id controls and later the temporary law, we repeatedly heard Morgan Johansson say that these were also measures that would move more countries in Europe to assume their responsibilities. At the same time, we have seen that more and more countries have closed the borders and not done what they need to do at all. We see Turkey's agreement, and we see that people in need of protection are quite acutely trapped both in Syria and in Jordan's desert. My question is brief: how does the Minister for Migration himself feel about getting other countries to take that responsibility? I have to say that it is very unclear to me how this would have helped, and I would therefore like to hear the reflections of the Minister for Migration. First, was that really a reason to do these things? Secondly, in what ways is the government trying to get the other countries to shoulder their responsibilities? Just as the Minister for Migration said in the previous shift of lines about the municipalities, everyone should do their job. Then we must also persuade more countries to do what they are supposed to do. The Left Party has made proposals on membership fees. It is certainly possible to do so in other ways as well. What are the concrete proposals of the government to move more countries to do the right thing? Then I am not thinking of proposals that are about us doing less.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-827	Mr President, I would like to Our concrete proposal is the reform of the Dublin Regulation. D a concrete proposal for a Council of Ministers. It is not a coincidence that it does, but it is because we have been working with a number of Member States and the Commission to bring it about for a long time. The construction is that if there are very many asylum seekers coming to the same country for a short period of time, they should be distributed in the other Member States according to a distribution mechanism that strikes. I think it is absolutely essential that we get this in place. At the same time, that is what is very far away for some Member States. But that's what we're actually working on. I have said this many times: it is basically a question of breaking through a principle. It can be said that migration issues are genuinely cross-border, something that is almost banal to point out. At the same time, it is one of the issues on which we cooperate least, both between different states and supranationally. That principle must be broken through, and that is exactly what we are trying to work with, that is to say, there should be a system in which all EU countries receive in certain situations. If we do not, only the border countries will have to shoulder the great responsibility, such as Greece and Italy. It is clear that if the Turkey agreement no longer works, Greece will very quickly turn into a single large refugee camp. These are tens of thousands of people who would come to Greece. If they cannot get help from the rest of the EU, then Greece has very serious concerns. This is what we are working for in concrete terms, and I hope that we will succeed in that negotiation process.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-832	Mr President, I would like to I think that in many ways Greece is already a refugee camp and that we are in a very urgent situation that is not acceptable one more day. We have people in camp at Lesbos. Greece is in many ways a disaster and it is clear that even the small, small redistribution that has been agreed in the EU is going incredibly slowly. The system grinds way too slowly. This is like nothing one can wait for, and I find it hard to see that it really is a question of strength, of urgency when we talk about the Dublin regulation. I wish for a government that is much, much stronger in its actions and that ensures that the EU puts the same pressure behind human rights as it does in terms of economic policy. It seems to be easier there. At the same time, there is one issue that I find very difficult. The government is constantly in favour of harmonisation in the EU countries and that we should have the same policy. At the same time, in discussions and in discussions about your negotiating mandate, you often say that Sweden should have the opportunity to have another legislation. Honestly, that doesn't make any sense. I would like to know at some point where the government is actually standing. If you are in favour of real harmonisation, we will not be able to have other legislation. A clarity even h is appropriate. We see that Denmark is starting to lobby for amendments to the European Convention, the Convention on the Right of Families to Reunification, on Stateless People, and so on, in the run-up to future presidencies. There is pressure down on the minimum levels that are already bad, and I naturally expect the government to be clear as to whether it is a harmonisation or a real possibility of something else and more.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-837	Mr President, I would like to I agree that Greece's situation is already serious. About 60 000 are trapped, some on the islands and many on the mainland, and are not getting any further. That is why we decided last year on the redistribution that is now going on but far too low and far too slow. I agree. Some 7,000 have so far been flown out. But there's no other way to work. I think that is the wise measure to take. I know that Christina Höja Larsen often strongly criticises the agreement with Turkey. It is an agreement between Greece and Turkey. The biggest promoter of this agreement in Europe is her own party friends in Greece. Syriza's in charge there. I often meet the Greek minister. He keeps expressing the same fears to the rest of us. We need to make sure that the agreement actually works. Otherwise, Greece will be placed in a completely impossible situation. He's pushing for two things. One is that the agreement works, and the other is that we are helping Greece on the ground and with the redistribution. To the question of harmonisation. I believe that this is an area in which we must cooperate more and in which Europe should move towards a more common policy. Then one can always discuss at what level the common policy should be. Then there is the second question of how much room individual Member States should have for their own rules. There we have said to Parliament that we want to move towards harmonisation, but we also want to ensure that there is flexibility for the individual Member States. When we arrive later in the negotiations, it will become clearer.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-841	Mr President, I would like to To be honest, I'm worried. The Minister of Migration said he was optimistic. That is what worries me, in combination with the fact that I know how the Minister for Migration and the Government have acted in the past. It has been an inconsistent approach to the migration situation where one second it has been said that the situation is under control to do something completely different in the next second. In a Question Time, the Minister of Migration has just said in the speaker's chair that he is not at all worried about those who are coming. They will enter the strongest labour market and so on. At the same time, the government continues with a policy in which municipalities are forced to accept people – a commitment they say they cannot cope with. In this way it is believed to be able to promote better inclusion in society. It doesn't stick together. The Minister does not seem at all concerned about the migratory flows we see in the future. Already today there are many people coming to Sweden. It is not at all the 10,000 a week that we saw before, but there are still many people who are going into the Swedish labour market and into our society. The government has no solutions. Outsiders are getting more, and segregation is getting worse. Despite a decrease in unemployment, we see problems with segregation so that foreign-born people do not become part of society. What concrete measures are there to indicate that the government is doing the right thing? How can the government continue with politics while at the same time believing that it will promote healthier inclusion in the future?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-847	Mr President, I would like to I'm optimistic. It will go well for the vast majority of people who have come here, just as it has gone well for the vast majority who came in the 90s from Bosnia. They now have the privilege of entering the strongest labour market we have had in many years – thanks to the policies we have pursued. There are 100,000 vacancies. 120 000 new jobs have been created in two years. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. I'm happy and proud of that. That's what we're supposed to be in these Christmas days. I am pleased that there is a positive and strong development in the Swedish economy. Then there is housing policy. It's built more than 40 years. Over 60,000 homes are being built this year. We need to get up a little higher, maybe up to 70 000 homes next year. That rate has to be kept in the years to come, but we're not that far away. I would like to ask two questions to Markus Wiechel. The first question concerns why you are in favour of segregation. If there is no legislation and pressure on all municipalities to take responsibility, the newcomers will end up in the same municipalities. We've seen that over the years. Then the wisest thing is to make sure that they end up in a little different municipalities, that they spread out across the country. It counteracts segregation. Why are the Swedish Democrats for segregation? Why are you in favour of the new arrivals ending up in the same municipalities that they have always ended up in? It's really weird. The second issue is that you have said that you want to put all asylum seekers in custody. It is therefore 100 000 men, women and children who should not be allowed to move freely in society. Have you given any thought to what all the detentions for these 100,000 will look like? Have you financed this in your budget?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-852	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that there is a great deal of disagreement between me and the Swedish Democrats on the one hand and the Minister for Migration and the Government on the other. First of all, we are pursuing a completely different migration policy. Not nearly as many people come here, which makes it easier for us to deal with the whole situation. It makes it easier with inclusion in society so that those who come here, and above all have come here, have a chance to become part of society. This makes it easier for us to deal with the problems that arise when people from different parts of the world come to Sweden. The Minister for Migration has a vision that I don't really understand. I do not understand what the driving force is in continuing this policy all the time and almost calling for more people to come here in the future. There has been a long debate, and there have been several lines. I noticed that also Carina Ohlsson from the Social Democrats had a little difficulty explaining how she looked at the future when it came to the temporary solutions. The question is whether or not the Social Democrats intend to make border controls permanent. It was very unclear. I have never received an answer from the Minister for Migration either. There is no common thread in the government's actions, more than that one seems to ignore, for example, the municipalities' ability to receive new arrivals. For a healthy inclusion they must be on the track, I think. Doesn't the immigration minister?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-855	Mr President, I would like to Depends on what Markus Wiechel means. Right now there are about 100,000 waiting for decisions. They are in Sweden. Approximately 48 000 residence permits have been issued so far. Why does Markus Wiechel want them to end up in the same municipalities they've always ended up in? Why is he in favour of segregation? That is where they end up if you are not prepared to ensure that all municipalities take responsibility. It's really weird. I asked you one more question. It concerned the proposal to keep all asylum seekers in custody. Kent Ekeroth said so on August 7, and Richard Jomshof agreed – they should not be allowed to move freely on the streets. If so, we are talking about the need to build locked camps for 100,000 people. Have you financed this in your budget? No, you haven't. Have you thought about the proposal? There are 100,000 men, women and children to be locked up. I believe that 5 000 people are currently in various locked facilities, prisons and detention centres. You want to lock up a multiple number of people who have not committed any crimes at all. All they've done is seek asylum. You're going to lock them up. 100,000 people are to be locked up. Do you realize what kind of Gulag society you would create? My question is and has been, and I hope to get an answer to it: are you sticking to this deeply anti-human proposal? ( ANDRE VICE TALMANNEN: I would like to draw attention to the fact that Markus Wiechel is not entitled to any more lines, and he cannot therefore answer the questions that may be considered rhetorical. They may be answered at a later date. )
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-862	Mr President, I would like to This debate is therefore about the floor for the government loan rate in the tax legislation. I would like to begin by expressing my support for the Alliance's reservation, i.e. reservation 1 in paragraph 2. In our follow-up motion and in this reservation, we in the Moderates and the Alliance are developing our view of the bill. On this issue, we focus primarily on the business environment. That is why I intend to deal with this rather than the issue. The reason for this is that the impact assessment in the bill is again flawed. An important part for us to have a good business environment is that bureaucracy and regulatory issues are kept to a minimum. Entrepreneurs should simply be able to focus on their core business. In that system, it is important that we have good impact descriptions. It is the system that we have set up, with impact assessments that the Council reviews and in a referral response to how good they are. The Council also compiles an annual summary of the overall impact assessments. Unfortunately, in the last compilation concerning 2015 it turned out that only 36 p rocent is of the measure. Only 36% of the impact assessments are acceptable. In all the other cases, we who are going to make decisions in this House or other regulatory bodies cannot really determine how the bill or rule will hit entrepreneurs and thus growth and employment. And now we have another bill on the table where the impact assessment is inadequate. Last week, Mr President, I had an interpellation debate with Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Damberg. I raised the issue of impact assessments widely, and I commended the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation. I would like to reiterate that praise, because he mentioned in his reply that the quality of impact assessments needs to be improved. He also said that a good basis for decision-making would increase the conditions for creating effective rules and that this would ultimately lead to increased growth and employment. I agree with all three points. What is at stake, then, is growth and employment. It may be that in a small case, in a bill, it makes little difference. However, when the impact assessments fail in the area by area and in the proposal after proposal, the overall burden on companies is likely to be too high, which hits the jobs. About two weeks ago we had a debate in this House. The Tax Committee dealt with a question about the concept of real estate in the VAT Act. Even then, the impact assessment was not sufficient, but in that case the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party – and the Riksdag in general – chose – to establish that the impact assessment was not okay. That is why they wanted the government to be given a mission, an announcement, to make a search for a few years. This is not how the Social Democrats and the Green Party have chosen in this case, despite the fact that the impact assessment is poor here too. In other words, one week the Social Democrats and the Green Party act in one way. Next week, the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation says that these are important issues and that you should work with impact descriptions. Now, the third week, the Social Democrats and the Green Party react in a completely different way. I do not quite understand the consequence of this. It is quite clear that the government parties have no plan for a stronger Sweden or for growth throughout Sweden. When one examines which departments have the most difficulty in carrying out good impact assessments, it turns out that the Ministry of Finance is such a department. It is important for the Minister of Finance to ensure that a better job is done in this area for the future. It is therefore better and easier for all parties if the impact assessment is good from the start so that it does not have to be done afterwards. Then we know when we decide how it beats companies, for jobs and for growth. If we get this right, we get the impact descriptions in order, then Sweden's competitiveness will be strengthened. Then growth will increase, and then jobs will increase.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-872	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in the report. The government's proposal on the floor for the government loan rate is a consequence of our being in an extraordinary situation with interest rates that we have practically never seen before and which are contrary to everything we were taught in school. The economy, our economic system and tax legislation are not adapted to this. The impact on the economy of this extremely low interest rate situation is something that we will probably not understand the full extent of for many years. Several consultation bodies have called for a more comprehensive impact assessment, as the previous speaker also mentioned. It will be necessary if the current interest rate situation were to last for a long time. We in the Swedish Democrats share the view that there may be reason to fix the situation that has now arisen and introduce a minimum level for the government loan rate of 0 per cent. However, we are sceptical about the government's proposal to divide the floor into two different levels. Like several consultation bodies, we believe that the floor should be set at 0% in all areas affected by the government's proposal.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-876	Mr President, I would like to The world's financial framework has undergone major changes in the period that is almost a decade. In many respects, monetary and fiscal policy have had to tread new ground during this time. It is, of course, a natural consequence of the financial crisis and the debt crisis that flared up in southern Europe in particular. The Riksbank, like us in the Riksdag, has in recent years had to review many of the regulations that form the framework for the national economy. An important such framework is the interest rate on government loans, since it is a reference rate in tax legislation that is of great importance for both pensions and business contracts. A tax system will never be completed, and it is necessary to react quickly to circumstances in the world around us that have unforeseen consequences. Given the situation of the negative interest rate that we are now in, a change in the rules for the government loan rate floor is necessary. Having said that, legislative proposals must be well-informed and transparent. It is ultimately a question of trust in the tax system. It is quite clear that significant effects on companies may follow from the proposal. A fundamental principle in the design of new tax rules is that the possible consequences of the proposed rules are well-understood and well-understood. I note that the proposal presented by the government lacks such a full impact assessment. The proposal has received strong criticism for this from heavy consultation bodies and also from Jörgen Warborn just now. We are in a period of very uncertain interest rate developments. It is worrying that the government's impact assessment in the proposal is based solely on the Ministry of Finance's interest rate forecast and not on different interest rate forecasts. Given that a prognosis is just a prognosis, there is every reason to look at both the more likely and the less likely prognosis. Only a few years ago, for example, interest was unthinkable. Now it is a fact in many countries. For those who will use the government loan rate as a reference, two floors obviously mean an increased complication. I note that the significant changes in the rules that have recently taken place in the area of taxation, as well as the current processes, mean major changes for those who ultimately have to sit and deal with the regulations: companies. In the light of this, it is even more important to carry out in-depth analyses to ensure that changes are effective and do not have unforeseen consequences, or that new rules differ for different actors, such as companies of different sizes or in different sectors. Mr President, I would like to The government's follow-up to the new proposed changes in the floor of the government loan rate is an important part of building trust in the tax system through transparency and clarity. I therefore ask for the approval of Amendment No 1 by Per Åsling and others.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-884	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report. It is, of course, an extreme time. The interest rate is negative. The Riksbank has set its reference rate at −0.5, and it is clear that the market is affected by the negative interest rates. We calculate the government loan rate with a model that makes the reference rate now in November 0.27 per cent, which means that it is approaching zero or minus interest. We cannot have a negative interest rate in the tax system and in the rules governing it. It has completely undesirable effects on the tax system. I therefore think it is good that the government has reacted and sent out a proposal for a referral on a floor of 0 and 0, respectively. The Council and the consultation bodies have looked at this, and most supported the proposal. Of course, you can have a discussion about whether you should have a floor or three floors, but the government has stuck to the proposal with two floors: 0 and 0, 5. These are important issues, for they determine, among other things, interest deduction limits in business activities, flat-rate income in the provision of accrual fund, spread amounts in the case of interest distribution, tax base for income tax on pension funds and valuation of car benefit and interest benefit. So there are a great many tax issues involved in this floor. It has been criticised that the proposal has not been evaluated, that it is poorly prepared and that the impact assessment is poor. I feel that this is the same rhetoric as it was a year ago. Some other rhetorical expert then made the statement that there was no external judge who believed in the government's employment policy. It's no longer used, because now 120,000 more people have got jobs. I also feel that, in debate after debate, it is emphasised that the issue is poorly prepared and that there are no impact assessments. But, of course, a government has the task of making good proposals at such extreme times, and that is what the government has done with these two floors. Of course, the government will evaluate this reform when it is in force and you see the effects. It is, of course, important that it be done, and I am sure that all governments are doing so; reform is being introduced and it is being evaluated. Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that the government has acted on this issue in order to bring clarity to our tax system in these extreme times of negative interest.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-891	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Hellman claims that it is rhetoric to look at the lack of impact assessment – that it would only be empty talk. It is not just rhetoric, of course; it is a regulation. I would like to ask Jörgen Hellman whether it is not a regulation which the Social Democrats think it would be reasonable to comply with.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-892	Mr President, I would like to You often use a rhetoric that says that it is poorly prepared and lacks impact assessment. In such an extreme situation of negative interest rates, we must, of course, have a tax system adapted to them. These are the facts; there we are today. The government has developed a proposal for floors of 0 and 0, 5. Once it has been implemented, it will of course be assessed whether it was reasonable. But we need to see if the effects are expected. The government has done the right thing in preparing the issue and making proposals, and we will see what the impact will be when the system is launched.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-894	Mr President, I would like to It is the Rule Council, which is therefore the government's own authority in this area, that makes the scrutiny of the bill and the investigation that the government has set up. Thus, in the area by area, the government's own authority concludes that the impact assessments are flawed. It cannot be rhetoric or empty speech; it is a fact that only 36% of the impact assessments are acceptable. It would be reasonable not only to carry out an evaluation afterwards of the impact of legislation on businesses, but also to follow the regulation and carry out an evaluation and impact assessment before. The truth is that neither Jörgen Hellman, the Minister for Finance nor other parts of the government know how this proposal affects businesses, and it risks hitting jobs and jobs. That is the challenge ahead of us. When you put forward a proposal for a proposal without knowing how it hits companies, it risks creating a large workload and an increased administrative burden for companies, and they cannot relate to their core business. The impact assessment that exists is based on the Ministry of Finance's own forecast, and it says that this legislation would not really kick in. Wouldn't it be reasonable to have a forecast even in the event that the interest rate is as low as it is now being raised in the bill? Once again, I would be grateful if Jörgen Hellman could answer these questions, but also to the question of whether it is not reasonable for the government and the Social Democrats to comply with a regulation.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-899	Mr President, I would like to After all, this debate is not being held in isolation in this meeting room. There is a reality outside of it, namely that the Riksbank has set an interest rate of −0.5. The interest rate market sets negative interest rates. The reference rate is 0; it is in November 0, 27. When the amount to be used in tax calculations is determined, it starts to go towards 0, and it is not reasonable for that interest rate to affect the effects of the tax system. It was never meant to be negative interest rates when creating the tax system. It has effects that are not wanted. These are undesirable effects. The government has actually taken care of the issue and been clear about the tax system: we should have floors of 0 and 0.5 so that we do not have these undesirable effects. The criticism that impact assessments and evaluations are poorly prepared can be used as arguments on other issues. On this issue, Parliament must set floors of 0 and 0.5 in order for us to have the effects we have decided that the tax system should have.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-901	Mr President, I would like to I have a bit of a cold today, but I hope I'll be clear anyway. The proposal we are now debating is to set two floors for the government loan rate. The government loan rate is a reference rate in tax legislation, against several different areas – pensions, savings, car benefit value and some other areas. That we in Parliament should adopt this proposal and introduce the floors is perfectly reasonable in relation to the situation on the interest side in Sweden and Europe as well as in other parts of the world. Nevertheless, in view of the fact that we are doing so, it is worth considering the extreme situation we are in and the risks involved. This is not the first decision we take that reflects the situation. We removed the interest rate on the tax account because it was suddenly more advantageous to have the money in the tax account than in a bank account, which is really absurd, and we made changes in the investment savings account. This summer, the government loan rate for the first time fell below 0 per cent. Although it will not be below 0 in the full year, it is a risk we have to deal with with with this proposal. In Sweden, we have for a long time now had a negative interest rate, which the Riksbank has set. This is one of the reasons why Swedish households are more indebted than ever before. Although we have recently seen a slight slowdown in housing prices both in the Stockholm area and elsewhere, it is still an extreme situation. One-bedroom apartments are bought and sold for millions. The Riksbank has been eager to raise inflation to 2 per cent, which has been set as a target, and in this way it has burned. To me, it does not seem entirely healthy at all times. I will say that the Riksbank has had a point in saying that we, as legislators, should use more tools more clearly to prevent the debtberg that is growing, Mr President. We have used some tools, and we have given Finansinspektionen more mandates to do so. However, the elephant in the room is the interest deduction, which we should start adjusting to prevent a future unfortunate situation. One might wonder why this is important. After all, we have the saying that the person who is in debt is not free, as we sometimes say, but in a healthy housing market debt is not really a problem. It is not really a problem that you take out a loan to invest in a dwelling that you should have over time. This presupposes that, as owner and borrower, you have a buffer for possible interest rate increases and that you can amortise, but when prices rise so quickly and the interest rate is so low, a risk is still created. Normally, the Riksbank uses monetary policy as a way to stimulate or dampen demand in the economy depending on the economic situation. When we have a boom, we have higher interest rates, and in recession it is lower for us to get investments and other things going. Now we are moving towards or in a boom; the economy is growing rather strongly, unemployment is falling and employment is high. Inflation has approached 2%, and both GDP growth and employment and inflation in Sweden are higher than the EU and euro area averages. Nevertheless, the European Central Bank has a higher repo rate than the Sveriges Riksbank has decided for Sweden. Nevertheless, the question arises as to what we should do when the economy does not go the way it does now – when we would have to lower interest rates in order to stimulate investment in companies and households as well as in the public sector. After all, there will be no great possibility of further lowering interest rates. Mr President, I would like to In fact, the proposal would not be necessary, and I hope that we will not hit the floor. However, at the moment we are in, it is self-evident that we should approve the proposal in the report, and I now hope that together we will be able to deal with the risks of high indebtedness combined with the low interest rate situation.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-910	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of clarity, let me say that we are not opposed to the substance of the matter. So we are not opposed to a floor for the government loan rate, so that it is clear. What we think is reasonable is that we should understand how this affects companies and jobs. After all, we have the regulation on impact assessments introduced by the Alliance Government; I think it was 2007. The whole purpose of it was to ensure that we continue to have growth and good employment and that the entrepreneurial climate is as good as possible. Now Rasmus Ling has had a moment to think about the question I put to the Social Democrats earlier, and I ask him the same question. Does Rasmus Ling and the Green Party think it reasonable to follow a regulation?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-912	Mr President, I would like to It is good to hear that Jörgen Warborn and the Moderates are not opposed to the proposal, because this is something that is needed. Concerns are being expressed about the impact on entrepreneurs of this proposal. I think it's a little bit like fighting windmills. The proposal does not impose an increased administrative burden on businesses; they do not have to provide more information or anything like that. I can feel a concern about what it would be like if we did not deal with the situation – if it were to be the case that the government loan rate was negative and that it had worse consequences. My counter-question, therefore, is whether the Moderates and Jörgen Warborn do not think it would be worse if there were such a discussion than that we are now acting rather quickly on the situation that has arisen.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-915	Mr President, I would like to That question is simple. There is no contradiction in the substance of the matter. We just think it is reasonable to know how legislation affects jobs and entrepreneurship before it is introduced. That is the difference between us: you choose to put forward a proposal for legislation in breach of a regulation and with inadequate impact assessment. This is not the only case either; only 36% of the impact assessments were approved in 2015. This is, of course, a situation we must turn around. We had a debate with the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation last week, and he also thinks we need to turn this around. How do we turn this around? We in Parliament must react, as you did a week ago or two when you said: We have to do a search here! Then we agreed. Why aren't we today? Why, Rasmus Ling, shouldn't we follow a regulation?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-918	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we should prepare matters and comply with the regulations that exist, but we must also see what the consequences will be if we do not act in time. Now we have a situation where this could have undesirable consequences. If we were to investigate this for a long time, we would not get this in place as quickly as necessary, and I think that would be worse. At least it's nice to hear that we agree on the matter. It is, of course, up to the Moderates themselves, but I think you should save the criticism for the times when there really is substance in it. I cannot see that this is the case here, Mr President.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-920	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates' draft budget is a coherent whole. As Parliament, unfortunately, supports the Government's proposal, we are not taking part in today's decision. This does not mean, however, that we do not see, and have other solutions to, the enormous housing challenge that Sweden is now in the middle of. We have therefore written a special opinion. Mr President, I would like to Crisis is a word that should not be used too often, as the meaning risks being watered down so that we no longer have a strong enough word when a crisis really happens. As far as the housing situation in Sweden is concerned, the word crisis is in its place. Young people are in line to get their first home. Companies find it difficult to find labour because there are no homes to move into. Families with children who would like, and need, a larger home seek in vain. From all over Sweden there are clear, loud warning signals about the unsustainable situation that now arises when the large group receiving a residence permit is to settle in our municipalities. For several municipalities, especially in the metropolitan regions, it is not enough to point out that the situation is difficult. They say that the situation is impossible at the moment. At the same time, we know that there are people who want to scale down their space and move to a smaller home but do not think they can afford it because of limited suspension rules and too high interest on the amount of the deferral, which soon eats up capital. Mr President, I would like to This is obviously a challenge that has grown larger over time. All parties in the Swedish Parliament agree that the housing crisis in Sweden must be resolved. Therefore, the Moderates and the Alliance agreed to participate in the housing policy talks that the government invited. Unfortunately, it turned out quite soon that the government is happy to talk but lacks the will to agree on the strong measures needed to resolve the situation in which Sweden finds itself. The fact that the government is toothless and poor of ideas in its efforts to solve Sweden's housing crisis gives us an example here today. The Government is proposing to abolish the ceiling on the amount of the deferral for a limited period of time. This is a proposal that few, if any, believe solves anything at all. Finansinspektionen, Boverket, Fastighetsägare Sverige and Bostadsrätterna clearly say that the proposal has limited effects on the mobility in the housing market that we so badly need. The Financial Control Agency does not settle for this, but saws the proposal and considers that the measures do not solve the problem at all. The only person who believes in the proposal is apparently the government itself, who is pleased to note that the proposal now gives people an incentive to sell, and that they can move. The government believes that the proposal can create migration chains. The word may reveal that the government also has doubts as to whether the measure has any effect at all. As a further safeguard measure, the government adds to the glitch that capital taxation is only one of several factors. Mr President, I would like to The only problem is that it echoes quite empty when it comes to other government proposals. We Moderates have a long list of proposals, where the proposals for a permanent abolition of the deferral ceiling and a reduction of the deferral rate to 1.05% are a small part of a well-coordinated whole. Capital gains taxation is a threshold for people when they consider moving out of their home. The current deferral amount for the capital gain is too low, and the interest on the deferral is so much higher than the market rate that in many cases it is not even worthwhile to postpone taxation. The government's proposal to abolish the suspension requirement for four years is toothless. It does not create the clear conditions and the long-termness people need when making one of the biggest decisions in life. The investment in a dwelling is a life investment. For 80 per cent of Swedes, housing is the largest, and mostly the only, wealth. In order to want and dare to make the decision to sell your home, clear, predictable and long-term rules of play are needed. The time limit is therefore directly harmful, and all consultation bodies also consider this to be a problem. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish housing crisis has now reached so deep that it has enormous negative consequences in all parts of the country, in big cities as well as in sparsely populated areas. Of course, it – perhaps most of all – has consequences for the individual. We have now reached a stage where it is no longer enough to fine-tune the margins. We have to get down to the basics. Then it is not possible to sit with a lot of sacred cows, as the red-green government does. Is the deferral amount that you are presenting today all you have to come up with? Aren't you aware that it's just cosmetics? In the residential area, the government could put forward any simplification proposals and get them through in the Swedish Parliament tomorrow. But there has not been a single proposal. That is not the case, Mr President. We must, and we shall, have the right to expect more from the Swedish Government in the current crisis situation.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-938	Mr President, I would like to The amount of deferral on the sale of residential properties and right-of-occupancy property in connection with the purchase of a new dwelling is one way of deferring the payment of the capital gains tax. You can say that you get credit from the state for the tax on the profits made in the sale of a residential property or right-of-occupancy property. In other words, taxation is reduced in the case of a change of residence, but it is increased when no more deferral is needed, for example in the case of death, moving to a specific dwelling or a rental apartment. In this situation, the entire deferred capital gains tax must be paid. In order to compensate for this credit, an annual interest rate is paid on the outstanding amount of the deferral. The interest rate is calculated by applying a flat-rate revenue equivalent to 1.67% of the amount of the deferral in question. It is common perception that the deferred benefit tax system helps to increase incentives to move from a larger to a smaller home, which is cheaper or more manageable, for example when you get older or in a changing family situation. The current rules, with a limitation on the amount of the deferral, the so-called deferral ceiling, were introduced in 2008 to reduce the State's tax credits. It also imposed an interest charge, which involves a cost to the taxpayer and which constitutes compensation to the State for the tax credit. However, the cost of credit is somewhat reduced by the effect of the purpose of the credit. I believe that the system of deferral amounts is a marginal part of the basis for the large decision that a move entails. It is cheaper with the current interest rate situation to borrow an amount corresponding to the capital gains tax and pay it to the State. It reduces the cost of capital by about half. If a deferral of the payment of capital gains tax under the given conditions is to be effective, it should not contain any limitation and it should not be subject to interest, at least not if the effect of the measure is to be maximised. The government's proposal to temporarily remove the suspension ceiling is therefore logical, provided that the effect is indeed a real factor that makes a significant contribution to a positive migration chain. However, we believe that there are several uncertainties in the effects of the suspension ceiling and, not least, that there are tax effects in this context that risk leading to a complete error. The impact of the actual facts therefore needs to be better investigated. However, we agree with the Government's proposal to temporarily remove the ceiling for the suspension amount. There may be problems with the temporary abolition of the ceiling, but we believe that it is an advantage to have freedom of action by limiting the time limit for the measure at the moment. The possibility of extending or permanent abolition of the ceiling at a later date remains and can be implemented if the measure is actually effective. In the meantime, the effect needs to be examined and clarified objectively in order for the next decision on the matter to be based on a factual basis. We have pointed this out in a separate opinion explaining our position in this case. Mr President, I would like to There are those who believe that the system of deferral of property tax is part of the reason, but not all of it, for the rapid increase in house prices. This would mean that the deferral system would help create a housing bubble, an effect that Professor Sven-Olof-Olof Lodin raised in an article in DN already 2009. It is therefore necessary to carry out an exhaustive evaluation of the entire suspension system so that all its effects can be objectively and correctly clarified. That is an important reason why the abolition of the suspension ceiling is not permanent today. The Alliance's cross-confident view that a permanent abolition of the suspension ceiling is a very important measure to increase turnover in the migration chain lacks a clear and objective basis. From this point of view, it would very probably be better to completely abolish profit taxation, but that would be a very costly reform. Mr President, I would like to A crucial factor for a faster migration chain is the availability of suitable housing to move to, perhaps a smaller and cheaper or easy-to-maintain housing. Here, housing policy must assume its responsibility to create interesting accommodation for those groups who wish to leave their old home for something new. This requires new thinking about living environments rather than tricking with cap amounts and tax rates. If you do not find interesting alternatives, you will certainly not succeed in getting the migration chain going, especially if the price of a new home, as it is today, is almost as high as the price of the one you leave. However, we see another problem in this proposal that requires a new investigation in order to be able to be addressed. The deferral rate is calculated on the basis of the total amount of the deferral. This means having to pay interest to the State on the basis of its own capital, i.e. the part of the amount of the deferral which constitutes net wealth after deduction of the capital gains tax. It is a form of state confiscation that should not occur. Reasonably, the interest should not be based on equity but only on the amount of the tax debt. We therefore recommend that the Government, in connection with an evaluation of the law and the entire system of deferral amounts, also investigate the effects of a change in the basis of the calculation, so that the deferral rate is calculated only on deferred capital gains tax and that the interest rate is market adjusted. This should lead to lower revenues for the State. It is therefore important to examine the impact such a change would have on both central government finances as well as household finances and the housing market as a whole. We would also like to see a greater grip on the issue of the inequalities inherent in the taxation of capital gains in the sale of private homes. In particular, consideration should be given to the award of speculative transactions, which are embedded in today's rules on capital gains taxation. Mr President, I would like to All these measures require proper review, and only the government can take the initiative. It is necessary, however, if we are to overcome the problems that together create the cross-section of the migration chain that we have seen develop in recent years. The rules on capital gains taxation and the deferral system are only one detail in this context. However, on the basis of the current situation, this report represents a temporary measure that can help to reduce the problem, albeit marginally. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-952	Mr President, I would like to More housing is being built now than for a very long time. This is of course pleasing, but what is being built is completely inadequate and, above all, housing is not being built for those who are farthest from the housing market. And so far, housing construction is also concentrated in the richest municipalities that already have strong growth and a high demand for housing. That is what concerns me most now, when, as the spokesperson of the Center Party, I am going up in the debate of the Committee on Taxation on changes in the rules for the deferral of capital gains on the sale of private dwellings. It is not built because we have a new government, but despite that. The reason why some 60 000 homes are now planned in the country's municipalities is that there are plans that have gained legal force and that there is land to build. It is a process that can take up to ten years. There are landowners who are prepared to set aside land, and there are construction companies that can undertake to build for those who are willing to buy, own and manage housing. There is a market because in most places it is easy to borrow money and households' finances in many cases are such that they can afford to move into the new homes that may have cost up to 30 000 SEK per square metre to build. The government is trying in various ways to influence the market through subsidies for new, energy-efficient, small apartments and by paying out a building bonus to those municipalities that already have all the conditions for obtaining housing, with plans, programs, land and willing construction companies. We believe that this is a huge waste of EUR 5 billion a year that could have been better used. Instead, the government should continue to simplify the rules. Noise, beach protection, national interests, appeals and continued long unpredictable planning processes prevent in many places. The previous government set up investigations and decided on assignments. 55 investigations were carried out and a total of 113 proposals for action produced results. Housing construction started to grow again in 2012. A new dwelling is marginally less expensive to move into because it has been subsidised. Investment aid commitments contribute to increasing uncertainty. Therefore, any form of housing subsidy was removed when the Alliance came to power in 2006. Now they are back, even though they are criticized by everyone in the construction and real estate industry, except by the Tenants' Association and Sabo, the common good. The easiest home to get is the one that was produced decades ago and is rented according to the conditions of that time with low construction costs and a housing building in volumes that we can only dream of today. Then we are talking not only about the rent limits in the suburbs but also about idyllic townhouses in small and large cities or communities with both property rights and housing rights. More is being built, and every apartment that is added is welcome. That's good. But in order for us to have the desired effect with lower thresholds for those who are furthest away, we need to add the most important: mobility – the migration chains. In order to be able to accept an offered job or a training place for the small but growing family in a place where there are already jobs, good schools and preschool places, there need to be older villas and flats that are for sale and thus an owner who wants and is ready to sell. Mr President, I would like to The new homes produced are often very suitable for those who, like me, are 55-plusers with outflyed children, a good economy and a not excessive need to be at home constantly. But before you move, you have to find an item to buy. Then you have to decide when, how, to whom and at what price to sell the dwelling you have. The longer you delay making this decision, the more difficult it is. If you have since become so old that you cannot plan and carry out the move on your own, the villa, the garden, the stairs in the hall to the upstairs bedroom and the basement become a burden – not only for you, but for your loved ones, for home care and for health care. Getting the move chains started is not only about making housing available, but also about the housing you have suitable for the life you live in all its stages. When a dwelling is sought after on the market and valued at a high price, there is an additional burden on the person who is moving out. The so-called removal taxes can be the highest within the OECD, says the authority Boverket. Boverket is brutally honest in its description of what hinders mobility in the housing market: It is taxes and renting. The Center Party wants to see a major reform in the tax area in terms of buying, owning and selling their home. Therefore, we have no objection to the proposal to remove the ceiling for the suspension of the sale of private dwellings for the period 21 June 2016 until 30 June 2020. We would like it to be permanent, and we would also refer to the specific opinion of Mr Per Åsling. It also shows that we would have had no objection if the talks on housing policy, which I myself participated in, could have been concluded with a broad agreement in the area of taxation, among other things. But the will to address the structural problems has not been in the hands of the government and the Left Party support party. Above all, there has been a lack of willingness to take on board criticism of the leasing system, which more and more people see as the major obstacle to the development of rental rights. We are seeing a decline in newly produced rental apartments, we are still seeing conversions and we are seeing poor mobility in the rental market as well. Many of those who remain in the most attractive rental apartments could own their home. Boverket estimates that 710 000 additional housing is needed by 2025. But with the construction act we have, this goal will not be achieved. Nor will we be able to meet the needs of young people, newcomers and people who find it difficult to obtain loans in banks with mortgages and amortisation requirements. We have a situation where building new homes is considered too expensive in many towns outside the major cities, as the market values the new dwelling so low that the construction cost exceeds the market value as soon as the dwelling is put into service. More housing is needed throughout Sweden. The Central Statistical Office published this summer the task of over 351,000 villas occupied by single households. That is almost half the amount of housing that would be needed. We note that the potential of our housing stock is not fully exploited and that mobility must make it possible for these houses to be filled with families or easily rebuilt so that parts of the dwelling can be rented out. The Center Party and the Alliance Government facilitated second-hand leasing, and we are pleased to see that revenues from such rentals will eventually be exempt from tax. More new homes are needed. We in the Civil Committee, which handles the Planning and Construction Act, can provide the conditions. But it is you who are working on fiscal policy and taxation that can ensure that it happens and that we get an exchange for those who most need housing.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-974	Mr President, I would like to Several quite radical reforms are needed for the Swedish housing market. We've got big problems. The lack of mobility that makes it impossible to find an apartment, not least here in Stockholm but also in several other cities around the country, has been calculated to result in 15 000 more unemployed people than we would otherwise have. You can't take a job you're offered, because you have nowhere to live, which means you're looking for a job in other places instead. Of course, it also leads to a variety of other practical problems for people, but we do not need to go into them here today. From the Liberals' side, we think it is a very good idea to remove the ceiling on the delay when selling your villa or apartment, but we do not think it should be temporary. Sure, you can extend it later, but it is much better if we now lay down rules that last for a long time for the Swedish housing market. Nothing indicates that these problems will be fixed in four years' time. We also think that the interest on the amount of the deferral should be abolished in order to encourage the sale of your apartment so that someone else can move in there and you go on to a new accommodation yourself. These two measures that we are debating today are, of course, good, even if we want to go further. But, as I said, there is a need for broad reforms in the housing market. This is a small step in the right direction, but much more is needed. I am not going to mention all that stuff, but one needs to mention in this context the rent regulation that we have today. As soon as there are price controls, there is a shortage of supply. If you have price regulation on bread, there will be too little bread. If you have price regulation on toilet paper, as recently tested in Venezuela, there will be too little toilet paper. If you have price regulation on housing, there will be too little housing. When you change systems you obviously need to do this for a period of a number of years so that it works smoothly for everyone, but it needs to be done. Another thing is to step up the interest rebate, but not so that it leads to an increased cost for people without at the same time lowering the tax gradually. Much more needs to be done in the Swedish housing market. We believe that on these very issues that we are debating today, we need to go further than what the government is proposing now and not introduce any time-limited rules and remove the interest on the amount of the deferral.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-981	Mr President, I would like to We have probably all had access to information about the project, which has now become permanent in several municipalities and which is called Bostad first. If someone here has not encountered the project, please come to me afterwards and hear about it. It is a good project which, as I said, has also become permanent in different municipalities. It is easy to say that the person who has an addiction to something, such as drugs, in the vast majority of cases is rootless without a fixed dwelling. Housing at first means that these people should have a permanent place of residence where they feel at home and safe in order to get on with their lives. It has worked very well, on which I have been informed. People who have a safe life in the form of a home have easier access to other treatments. What do I want to say about this? Well, it shows that a home that one can call one's own is of great importance to us humans. A place where you can close up and do whatever you want inside the door provides security that we need. I believe that this need is fundamental, and we, as a nation, are unable to deliver it today, which I deeply regret. We see that young people in many municipalities cannot find their first home. We can see that families cannot find the right size of housing and that some refrain from moving in the housing chain because we politicians have set up laws, rules and taxes that make it impossible. Despite the relatively high pace of housing construction, driven by an active housing policy on the part of the alliance government, which I believe it is, it is clear that the housing market remains dysfunctional. For a long time too little housing has been built, and lack of mobility in the housing market has exacerbated the supply problem. Together with, among other things, low interest rates, this has driven house prices up and household indebtedness followed. Indebtedness for households is a problem that we have discussed many times here and which we have to deal with in other ways too. The development creates difficulties for young people and families with children to find a place to live. As previous speakers have said, it is also hitting growth. Lack of mobility is a major problem, and some of the causes can be found in the design of taxes. For example, the regulatory framework seems to contribute to reduced mobility when some elderly people choose to stay in their villas instead of moving to less or more adapted housing. The Boverket report indicates that the problem is growing. The rise in house prices increases profits and thus removal taxes. The view of the Christian Democrats is that an amortisation requirement – with a clear exception for new production in order to avoid its inhibition – is a reasonable measure to mitigate household indebtedness. However, the reverse to the amortisation requirement, which meets new mortgages at home, is that the sluggish movement of the housing market is at risk of picking up something. The Christian Democrats want the cap on the deferral of capital gains tax on the purchase of new dwellings to be permanently abolished. In addition, we want the payment of the interest on the deferral to be deferred on the future when buying a new dwelling. In this way, the profit on sales is not required to be taxed if a new dwelling is purchased, but both the capital gains tax and the deferred interest are paid when the person no longer makes a deferral. This occurs, for example, when the person moves to a rental apartment, to special housing or if the person dies. The proposal would mean that a large part of the lack of mobility caused by moving taxes can be eliminated in a fiscally responsible way by the State still receiving tax revenue, but later. Is it enough to change some tax rules to deal with the housing shortage? Of course not. We must also, as legislators, give municipalities the opportunity to fulfil their mission in terms of housing supply. The time for planning processes from idea to completion of a house must be shorter. More people should be able to initiate a planning process in those areas on which it is interesting to build. In the case of appeals against decisions under the Planning and Construction Act, this should be made more effective by considering reducing the number of bodies, while maintaining legal certainty. These are some of the proposals that we Christian Democrats have. These are some of the things that we can put together in the basket to see how we can move forward. Sweden needs more housing. Sweden needs us to think differently in order to speed up the construction of housing. Sweden needs housing. We Christian Democrats can see that today's proposal does not take us all the way, just a little bit on the way. But there's still a long way to go. The Christian Democrats have a special opinion based on our proposal, which we believe corresponds better to the problem we see than the government proposal. We believe that the cap on the deferral of capital gains tax on the purchase of new dwellings is permanently abolished instead of temporarily as the government wishes. This corresponds to a reasonable measure to increase mobility. The payment of the interest on the deferral should be possible to postpone the future of the purchase of a new dwelling.
i-Qwge5noffPfxPz1TixpQBA	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposals in the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, Sku11, on the amendments to the rules governing the deferral of capital gains on the sale of private dwellings. Participation in a report debate is just a normal day at work for many of the other Members. For me, this chamber debut is solemn. This is the first proper matter in the House as a Member of Parliament. It's the finest assignment an IF Metallare I can get, except to become part of the ultimate union leadership. It is also the finest trust a Swede with roots in Palestine can have. It is with pride and joy that I stand here for my Sweden that is welcoming, inclusive, open, free and democratic. I represent the new Sweden and the future of which we are all part. Mr President, I would like to The government hoped for a broad, cross-block housing policy settlement in the spirit of the Swedish model. Unfortunately, that was not the case. On 21 June 2016, the Government presented a housing policy action programme with 22 steps for more housing. One of the measures is the abolition of a cap on the amount of deferrals for a limited period. Both the ceiling on the amount of the deferral and the rate of interest were part of the financing of the reduction in property tax by the bourgeois government. It should be remembered now that the bourgeois parties declare that they want to remove the deferral or lower the interest rate. They are now in opposition to Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg. The aim of the deferral rules for the sale of private dwellings is primarily to increase mobility in the housing market. This is achieved by allowing a capital gain from a disposal, in whole or in part, without taxation on the part of the taxpayer to be invested in a new dwelling. The temporary removal of the deferral ceiling may help to further increase mobility on the housing and thus also on the labour market in order to make more effective use of the housing stock. The Government's proposal means that the ceiling for the deferral amount does not apply to disposals of private residential properties and private residence rights during the period from 21 June 2016 to 30 June 2020. The amendment will enter into force on 1 January 2017. The proposal also amends the method for calculating the amount of the deferral in the event of an acquisition of a cheaper replacement dwelling. In addition, we will reintroduce the quota rule in force before 2008. The quota rule is more generous than the current deduction rule. The rule means, among other things, that deferral can always be obtained with some part of the capital gain. On the other hand, a large difference in prices may reduce the total capital gain so that no deferral can be obtained. In some cases, it may seem unnecessary to keep the desire to dispose of a dwelling and to acquire a new less expensive dwelling. Mr President, I would like to I understand the particular opinions of the bourgeois as that the parties are not directly against the proposal but rather want it in other ways and perhaps even more generous. As everyone knows, it is always easier to be generous in opposition than in government. The Swedish Democrats also have nothing against the proposal, but there are problems. D e wants to investigate and evaluate, which is certainly commendable sometimes, but not in this case. I think this is a non-complicated and direct proposal that can have good effects in everyday people's lives. Don't mess it up! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1006	Mr President, I would like to Last spring, the housing policy talks that the government had with the Left Party and the alliance parties broke down, which was very sad. But there is a great need for reforms in the housing market. Boverket is the authority that knows these questions. It is believed that some 700,000 homes need to be built by 2025 in many parts of the country. Mostly in the metropolitan regions, but also in many other places, there has been a lack of housing over time. This has led to increased prices and long queues for the rental dwelling stock. Today there is a shortage in 250 of the country's 290 municipalities, which is an absolute majority. Building more homes is one of several ways to solve the housing shortage. More is being built now than has been done in a long time since the 1990s crisis. This year, 60 000 homes will be started and developments will continue in a positive way in the future as well. Mr President, I would like to However, building more is not enough. We also need more reforms to make better use of the stock that already exists. Sweden is very high in terms of housing area per inhabitant. But we have had rules and conditions that have made many live bigger than they really want, because it would cost them more to switch to a smaller accommodation that they might rather have. And there are others who have it too crowded, which of course is a bigger problem. Various reforms to increase mobility are therefore another important issue in addition to building more. If we increase mobility, the existing stock will also be better exploited. We have such a proposal to consider in today's report. It shall be possible for a limited period of time to postpone any delay without a ceiling limit. This is a way of making better use of the existing housing stock, and it increases mobility. However, we would have to do more. We would have to phase out the interest deduction, as most parties here in Parliament have said they want to do. We need to trade it for relief in the residential area or for something else. It would also reduce debt and the risk built up in the system when debt increases over time. Mr President, I would like to I would like to endorse the proposal. I hope that in the future we can discuss further proposals that increase both housing construction and mobility. Such a development is crucial for the future.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1013	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today the proposal to abolish, for a limited period, the ceiling on the amount of deferral on the sale of private dwellings and the method of calculating the amount of deferral on the purchase of cheaper dwellings. The proposal could in some cases increase the incentive to move away from a home and thus speed up a relocation chain, so that, for example, a pensioner sitting alone in a large villa can move in favour of a larger family. This is good, but at the same time it should be pointed out that a holistic view of the Swedish housing situation is needed in order for us to have moving chains and for all people to be able to find a home that feels adapted to the size of the family. In order to move to something that suits better, you need to have something to move to. The most important thing we can do to increase mobility is therefore to build more housing that people actually want. Both those outside the housing market and those who want to move to something that suits better should have financial opportunities to move to what we are building. By pressing rents and prices for new construction, it can therefore be worth it even for those who, for example, have paid off the villa to move to a newly produced dwelling. We would have to invest in older people's housing and shelters in particular, as the government and the Left Party do in the budget. We also raise the housing supplement in order for more people to be able to ask for more housing. High prices and rents, such as market rents, thus risk creating very strong lock-in effects. High rents would make moving from a villa to a rental apartment more expensive. This will put an end to the most important link in the migration chain. This is important to remember. Building more affordable housing is therefore the basis for triggering mobility in the housing market and increasing the freedom to choose housing. How will this be financed? We will continue to manage good housing and habitats for all in the future. But that actually means that we need to be prepared to tax those who, for example, have benefited a lot from the old state housing subsidies and thus redistribute to those who are currently outside the housing market. This is what I call solidarity. Taxes on real estate are a way of raising money together for infrastructure investments and for building residential areas for the new generation of homeless people. If you do not agree with this, you have to deliver your own funding proposals on the infrastructure investments you want to see yourself. However, all of this needs to be properly designed so that it will be worth moving when, for example, the villa has become far too large. Then ROT and RUT subsidies and abolished property taxes and interest rebates can act as a barrier to mobility. You get subsidies, so to speak, so as not to move. At the same time, it is important for the unoccupied person that the favourable profit tax that we have today is not further eroded in such a way that house prices skyrocket. That is to say, the group or generation that has earned a lot of money from their home does not move their large capital to the next home, and there is a risk that prices will be pushed up further. We have an extremely serious housing situation in Sweden, and we have a huge private debt that is becoming almost unsustainable. It threatens not only the economy of individuals but the economy of the whole country. In my opinion, it would be irresponsible from a social, distributional and macro-economic point of view to introduce changes that risk burning Swedish house prices. Sweden has come to receive Europe's lowest taxation on property. That is why we see so great inequalities and social differences in today's housing. The fact is that the low level of taxation has not benefited the individual. Instead, it has resulted in huge price increases. Anyone who buys new today adds more money than ever, but these go to the bank instead of to the state. Lower tax revenue provides less resources for investment in construction, and it also creates large income differentials. When we adjust taxes, we also need to ensure that tenants do not become disadvantaged. I think that people themselves should be allowed to decide how they want to live – not that the state does so via the taxation system. Taxation therefore needs to be equal between tenants and residents of private dwellings. Otherwise we get a community where tenants pay housing costs for homeowners. A government inquiry shows that this is the case today. Tenants pay several thousands more a month for the tax subsidies that private home owners receive. There is an inequality here that needs to be balanced in different ways. For example, despite the fact that we have investment aid for the construction of rental apartments, subsidies for the property are still higher. This too is important to take into account when discussing taxes and support for housing in different ways. Of course, we still have a lot to do when it comes to smoothing the tax differences between different tenure forms, generations and social classes in Sweden. The changes of the former bourgeois government meant a huge transfer of wealth from country to large cities, from the homeless to those with large property holdings and from tenants to homeowners. We therefore have much to do to redistribute money, expand the country and hold down new production rents and prices. With these words, I would like to call for the proposal to be approved.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1028	Mr President, I would like to Industries linked to land, agriculture and water, such as agriculture, forestry and fisheries, are indigenous industries that have been around in the country for a very long time and that will also remain here with the right conditions while other industries come and go. This means that these industries deserve respect, long-termism and reasonable conditions of competition. These are basic nutrients, but they also have good conditions for further processing. These are industries that are usually found in rural areas and that meet our most basic needs – food on the table, for example. But the conditions for being able to produce at all are often decided in big cities far away, for example here in Stockholm. When politicians decide on new levels of taxation, on introducing new laws and regulations or on making more and tougher demands, this obviously affects the conditions for the industries concerned. The intentions are probably usually good, but this – as so often in politics – is not only about what you see but also about what you do not see when making political decisions. When the tax on diesel is increased, the good intention and the intention is to reduce emissions. But what we do not see is whether the reduction in diesel consumption is due to the farmer's activity becoming unprofitable and that the farmer is forced to put away the tractor and stop farming his field. When tougher demands are made in Sweden on which plant protection products can be used, the good intention is of course to reduce the use of chemicals. But what we do not see is whether the reduction in the use of plant protection products means that some crops cannot be grown here at all anymore. We human beings need to eat anyway, so the Swedish farmer's abandoned production soon pops up somewhere else in the world, from where we are forced instead to import the products. Diesel consumption has moved only elsewhere, the use of pesticides as well. We export our environmental impact, contrary to the generational goal adopted by the Riksdag. The environment has won nothing. And we've all gotten a little poorer. The farmer does not drive around with his tractor or spray plant protection products because it is fun. It is done for a reason, but it is often forgotten when politics wants to regulate away something you do not like. Swedish agricultural and food production is generally very environmentally friendly in comparison with other countries. It would therefore be better for the environment if a larger proportion of the meat, dairy products and crops consumed in the world came from Swedish farms. However, the government wants to steer politically towards more organic farming, which everything else equally reduces production. Representatives of government parties are happy and often talk about reduced meat consumption, although any proposal for meat tax at least at the moment does not seem to be relevant. We in Sweden should produce more, not less. It would be desirable for the government to recognise that too. But, Mr President, this is not just about agriculture and the food sector. For those who do forestry, the species protection regulation limits the possibilities for felling, but despite the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have pointed out to the government that there is a need for a review of the regulations nothing happens. Some forest owners receive, without compensation, large areas classified as key biotopes, which in practice means that they cannot sell their timber. And now the government's focus seems to be to extend the right of appeal and to provide more opportunities for more appeal against logging notifications and thus further complicate the possibilities for felling. This creates major problems for Swedish forestry. Mr President, I would like to This report deals with agricultural, rural and food sectors. The conditions for these are spelled competitiveness. The raw materials are there, the ideas and the workforce as well. What is needed is reduced costs, reduced regulatory burden, fewer special requirements, strengthened skills supply and, in addition, increased demand for Swedish quality. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's geographical location and our vast distances are a competitive disadvantage for our industries. Well-functioning communications and reasonable costs of fuel are therefore essential for rural businesses to be able to stand up on the international market. But instead of making it easier for industry, the government does the opposite, for example through an annual tax increase that automatically increases fuel taxes by 2 percent each year beyond the usual census. We from the Moderates say no to this overindexation. We are also investing in an increased reduction in the tax on agricultural diesel by another 50 öre, in addition to the 170 öre currently in force. Overall, this means an investment of nearly SEK 1 billion for 2017. In addition, we say no to the kilometre tax that the government wants to introduce and which would hit hard at jobs and growth in rural areas. For the same reason, we also say no to the aviation tax that the government wants to introduce and which, moreover, would not bring environmental benefits but would become a purely fiscal tax that would hit rural areas particularly hard. What rural areas need is reduced costs, but the government seems to be doing everything it can to increase costs on the contrary. It is an incomprehensible approach if we aim for more growth and employment. Swedish countryside deserves better. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support our reservations, Nos 1 and 2, but in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for reservation 2. With regard to the draft budget itself, we refer to our specific opinion under paragraph 2. We are therefore not taking part in that decision.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1046	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler from the Moderates talks about reduced meat consumption and connects it with Swedish meat production. My conviction is that most people in Sweden like to eat Swedish meat, which has been produced on our land here in Sweden and keeps the landscape open. A reduction in meat consumption still gives a great deal of room for Swedish meat production to increase. This does not mean that people should stop eating Swedish meat. Should you reduce meat consumption, you can at least stick to Swedish meat once you eat meat, and thus we have great potential to increase our production. The Moderates are proposing substantial cuts in this area of expenditure. As usual, it is about tax cuts to take precedence over investments in getting Sweden moving. This was tried earlier for eight years. It didn't work then, and I don't think it's gonna work now either. But one place where rhetoric clashes a little with reality, I think, is support for food exports. That is something we are all talking about supporting. It is part of being able to increase meat production in Sweden. You want to support food exports and claim to reinforce it by 20 million. At the same time, however, you want to reduce the allocation to the competitive food sector by 115 million of the total 145 that is there. The bulk of this appropriation is intended precisely to reward export refunds. You told me in a special statement that you want to invest more in mathematics education in school. I can understand that. You're reducing an item by 95 million and you think it's a bet. Then you should invest in both mathematics education and reading comprehension, because there is a big difference in investing and reducing.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1050	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jan-Olof Larsson for the questions. First of all, I would like to say that I find it very interesting that Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson talks about reduced meat consumption but does not tell anything about how this is supposed to be done. Nor has the government told us anything about this. It would be very interesting to hear Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson talk about how this should happen. I agree that it is not necessarily the case that there is a link between Swedish production and consumption, but there is a risk that it does, and therefore it would be interesting to hear what tools Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson sees in front of him to use. Then Jan-Olof Larsson goes into the budget and notes that we spend less money than the government does in this area. That's right. We have a proposal which, overall, is 0.3 billion lower than the government's 17.2 billion. There is a difference of just under 1.8%, which is not very dramatic. We can begin by stating this. Basically, it is about the government blowing on in the budget overall with large deficits despite the fact that we are in a boom. We take responsibility for our budget and have a balanced budget. We believe that this should be the case when the economy is booming. This is clear to all possible bodies who criticise this very thing. The Financial Policy Council, Konjunkturinstitutet and recently the Swedish National Audit Office were out criticising it. If you do not take responsibility for having a budget in balance, you can blow on with as much money as you can anywhere. That's enough money for just about everything. We have a slightly different basic view of competitiveness. Jan-Olof Larsson and the Social Democrats are keen to support and contribute and believe that this is the way to create competitiveness. We are convinced that competitiveness is fundamentally there. What needs to be done is to lift the yoke of high taxes, complicated rules and special demands from the shoulders of the traders we have in the country.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1054	Mr President, I would like to If one listens to environmental organisations and many who are involved in the climate debate today, one hears that many people talk about meat consumption being part of this. Neither the government nor I point and say that you should do this or that. We believe that if you inform the public in a good way, people have the opportunity to choose what to eat and what they think is good for the environment. It also creates a large space to buy Swedish meat. There, Sweden's farmers have a great opportunity to increase their production, although meat consumption will decrease. There's 300 million you're going down in this area. You could say it's bullshit money. But that is an enormous proportion of the money available for these investments in agriculture. You are talking about a balanced budget. Shouldn't Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler watch you lower the tax by many billions and borrow to every penny of that tax cut? We will soon have a budget in balance. The money we use and borrow is for investments in Swedish society. We don't just give them out and throw them away. We want to invest in Sweden and Sweden's future, create jobs and employment, better school and better health care. There's a lot to spend the money on and maybe to correct some mischievous things. I would like to ask the question again to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler : How can you make it that a reduction of 95 million to export investments is a bet? According to all the reading comprehension that exists, it should reasonably be that you reduce and withdraw money to increase exports.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1058	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the trail about the meat. At first, it sounds like we could be quite in agreement. I think we are in part in this. It is mainly an individual responsibility how to consume. I can agree that each individual should take that responsibility for himself and think about what to eat and have a good balance. Many would certainly have to reduce the consumption of certain products. What becomes a problem is when we discuss, and as often happens in the debate, instruments such as meat tax. Then the effect risks being just the one that I think Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson does not want. There is a risk that it will have as a consequence that it will hit Sweden's production extra hard. Swedish meat is a premium product. It costs more than imported because it is higher quality. Swedish consumers are largely prepared to pay for that added value. But if you raise the price further, a larger proportion will opt out of it for cheaper imported. Then we have not achieved any environmental impact since the imported usually has a greater environmental impact. That's what happened. Let's get back to the budget. Despite tax increases of 40 billion on jobs and growth, the government does not manage to present a budget in balance. These are tax increases to which we essentially say no. Nevertheless, we have a budget in balance. I repeat that the difference in our draft budgets in this area is 0.3 billion. That's less than 1.8%. It sounds rather false when the government is now talking about the Alliance having major deficits. It was during recession when it is usually legitimate to gas up to increase consumption. It was also the case that during all the years the Social Democrats delivered budget movements using more money than the alliance government did. The deficits would have been even bigger if you had the power to decide.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1063	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of the previous debate, I do not think that we are really credible when we talk about the importance of us consuming and eating more sustainable and then say that we politicians have no responsibility but that it is the responsibility of the individual. I wonder if Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler also thinks that we politicians do not have the slightest responsibility for, for example, how much car the Swedish people drive. That's an interesting comparison. Swedish meat consumption accounts for about the same amount of climate emissions as the approximately 4.5 million cars we have. I think we still agree on that. We need to reduce emissions from mass motorism. We must find ways for people to transport in a more sustainable way. Why should we not agree to also help the Swedish people to consume food in a more sustainable way? I also note that the Moderates dismiss the earmarked investment of SEK 25 million for organic food. It's boring. I would really like to talk forest with Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler. There is an effort in the report of SEK 320 million to make forestry more sustainable. In short, it means that forest owners should be able to receive grants to conclude conservation agreements or biotop protection agreements with Swedish authorities in order for more forest to be protected. It is very important if we are to achieve our environmental objectives on living forests, a rich plant and animal life and also achieve our international commitments. This applies, for example, to the Nagoya target of protecting 17% of our land area. However, the Moderates dismiss this and in the report reduce SEK 105 million to protect more forests. Why do you do that, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1067	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jens Holm for the questions. We will also start here with the meat issue. I agree that policy can certainly also have a responsibility for consumption, at least to some extent, when we see that consumption also has external effects that affect others. It may be true that politics takes responsibility. So do we in the parts we can. For example, we take responsibility for what meat production looks like in Sweden. We make demands in Sweden that are considerably harder than elsewhere, which means that Swedish meat production is much more environmentally friendly. That is also the reason why we should avoid ending up in a situation where Swedish meat production is knocked out and competed out by imported meat. That's what you risk if you start talking about a tool like meat tax. I think you have to see that. I think Jens Holm means well. But the effect of such an instrument can be quite different from the one I think Jens Holm has imagined, i.e. that the meat production that disappears is the Swedish and not the imported one. Then we have achieved nothing. As far as forests are concerned, it is true that we have a budget in which we put a lower sum than the government does. That's 105 million lower than the 322. We are simply making a different priority there. It is important that there is a balance between production objectives and environmental objectives. We think that there is a list more to the environmental side in the way the government works here, which creates problems for the production of forestry. We hear this from the forest owners. I mentioned a couple of examples of this in my speech with various limitations that are perceived as gradually being placed on forestry. We do not think there is any need to draw this further. We are not cutting the budget to zero, of course, but it is still over 200 million. But one can make another priority at the moment.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1073	Mr President, I would like to It is a somewhat absurd discussion when the Moderates state things that are not in the report. No one is proposing a meat tax. On the other hand, we want more sustainable food consumption. We are not talking about something wrong with Swedish production or anything like that. This is about more sustainable food consumption. There is a political responsibility to take here. To return to forestry issues, I find this interesting. The Moderates tend to be one of the parties that talks about the importance of helping private forest owners in order to be able to carry out more sustainable forestry. We allocate SEK 100 million more in the budget. We have more than 300 million SEK to protect more forest. Many private foresters want to be able to do so. Now they can do so, and they can receive compensation in the form of conservation agreements if they conclude them. They get money for it. That is exactly what the money is set aside for. Why do the Moderates oppose it? Why do the Moderates cut more than 30 percent on the grant when we know that the interest out there to pursue sustainable forestry and protect more forest is great? We all have a responsibility to protect the environmental objective of a rich plant and animal life. We have a lot of species that are under immediate threat. The white-backed woodpecker is one such example. How can we protect this bird and other birds, for that matter, lichens and mosses if they have no environments to live in, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler? That is what the question is about. We need to protect more forest so that endangered species have a place to live. You're going against it. You're going down by $150 million. Why do you do that, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1077	Mr President, I would like to Let's take the question of the meat first. It is true that there is no proposal on meat tax in the budget as it is now. I was also clear about this in my speech: there is no such thing. However, when the question is raised here in the lines, one wonders what instruments it really is that the government side and the government support parties think about. It is not enough just to talk about this, but to mean something with what you say. Are we simply saying that it is information so that consumers can choose? In that case, we are in complete agreement. But I understand that there is a completely different ambition from the left, that is to say that we want to steer things in a different way. Then I'm afraid you're landing wrong. It's not about a meat tax right now. We agree on this, and I think it is good that there is no such proposal. It's a little revealing when you listen to Jens Holm when he talks about the forest. He talks about helping forest owners, and he tells them that they will receive subsidies. This is clear in terms of the difference that exists in the view of policy generally from the alliance side and from the left side. We do not believe that it is primarily subsidies that the industries in general need – not the green industries, nor the forest owners. It is not subsidies that will make the forest work better. What is needed is increased competitiveness. These are reduced costs, not increased costs. The government raises taxes by 40 billion on jobs and growth. It is clear that it weighs down all industries – even the forest industry. It is about the regulatory burden and what opportunities you have when, for various reasons, you are not allowed to fell. This is a trend we have seen for a long time. We hear from forest owners that they perceive property rights being eroded and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to run an efficient agriculture. I think it is a big problem, and it is sad that the Left Party does not see it.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1081	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the speech by Jonas Gjörtler. He mentions pretty good suggestions that the Moderates want to push. Much of the politics is similar to that which the Swedish Democrats run and have driven. He talks about simpler rules, reduced taxes and measures against the government's modern variant of bagböleri. He mentions the species protection regulation and that the Moderates may now finally think that we need to review diesel taxes for agriculture. If you look at the budget as such, however, you unfortunately see that the Moderates are spending considerably less. It takes 300 million from Category 23. Among other things, it is about a lot of investments in forests and also exports that we find interesting. The Alliance talks a lot about wanting to make bets and so on. It's a little hard to experience it like that, even if you'd be credited with diesel taxes. In addition, the Alliance, and the Moderates in this case, are sitting on some kind of bench by the famous so-called DÖ Pact, or whatever it is. It's dissolved, but it's still in some kind of use. The question is how Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler views the political future. How do the Moderates intend to pursue a policy that makes a difference? Or should you continue to pursue some kind of backseat policy, as you do today when you sit in the back seat and complain about how the driver controls but is not prepared to take over and steer?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1085	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Forsberg, for the questions! As far as the amounts in the expenditure area are concerned, you touch on it yourself, but I would like to point out that the figures for the diesel tax are not included here. They're in another area. But this is aimed at agriculture and forestry. So it is money that benefits this area of expenditure in a way, even if it is not shown in these figures. In fact, the difference is even smaller than the 0.3 billion shown in the figures. In addition, one can add that we say no to the overindexation of vehicle and fuel taxes that the government wants to enforce. This applies not only to the green industries, but generally. But it may have an extra impact on the green industries. At least you can keep this money in the back of your head when you look at how much we spend. Anders Forsberg becomes a bit philosophical and talks about the future. He wonders how I and the Moderates view the future and how we want to pursue politics in the future. I believe that what the voters expect is that each party should now present its proposals clearly. The Alliance made a collective decline at the last election. We have had to reconsider some of our policies. This is true in this area, and it is true in others, although I believe that many of the fundamental issues of competitiveness, for example, remain from what we did during the years of government. It goes without saying that the Alliance still has an incredible amount in common. For eight years in government and a few years before that, we have shown that we could reach agreement and compromise. We will do so in the future too. Our ambition is, of course, that the Alliance should be greater than the current government side and that we should therefore be able to steer this country in a better direction.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1089	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler! Perhaps this does not concern me or our party in the first place, but I believe that it is primarily rural housing and farmers who are affected by the proposals we are making here today that are considering. They're thinking about when the Moderates will take control. When will you jump out of the back seat, and when will the proposals be taken seriously? We all know that the proposals we are discussing today do not mean anything as long as we are not prepared to take government power and to rule. I think this is a little bit of a question at all: how does one view this? What is one's view of the future under this parliamentary condition? We can see well what the opinion figures are today and what it will probably look like after the 2018 elections. How does Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler view it?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1091	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Forsberg! I do not share the view that the proposals presented do not mean anything. It is clear that it is important that we go through our policies and present a thorough proposal. I assume that all parties do, including the Swedish Democrats. That is the only way the voters can take a stand on the option they think is best when it is time to go to elections. I think it is quite fruitless, to be honest, to stand here and speculate on what might happen in a two-year election. I am clear about what our ambition is: the Alliance and the Moderates will grow, and we will be bigger than the government side. Our way forward to succeed is to present our proposals. We say no to 40 billion in tax increases for the coming years. We think that the money is better spent in another way to strengthen competitiveness, among other things in the green industries. We also have a wide range of other proposals that are not in the budget. There we also sometimes have a situation where we get a majority in this Parliament and can force the government to go in a more correct direction than would otherwise be done in this country.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1094	Mr President, I would like to As the financial framework has already been decided by Parliament, we will refrain from taking part in the decision on the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's proposal for appropriations under paragraph 2 of the report. However, I would like to support our reservation No 3 on the payment of direct payments. Mr President, I would like to For the Swedish Democrats, rural politics is about providing conditions for people who live, live and work there. Having said that, we cannot stress enough that Sweden is a whole, and we believe that what is good for rural areas is good for the whole country. A Swedish democratic rural policy is based on profitable agriculture and forestry. These and several other rural industries use nature's resources and produce natural and sustainable products, which stimulate entrepreneurship and employment in rural areas and give tax revenue to both the state and the municipalities. There is a wide range of important industries, and we call for general improvements for small businesses in rural areas. It is also about Sweden being able to produce food and supply our important industries with raw materials – the first links in long value chains that create jobs and prosperity across the country. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want the Swedish Forest Board to be able to provide more advice on nature and cultural conservation measures in forestry and measures to build and care for noble leaf forests. In addition, we want to support the work of registering hitherto unknown ancient and cultural remains and give priority to measures for increased grubbing-up. A well-designed advisory effort in cooperation with the forest industry could increase incentives to clear in time and to clear the right. According to researchers at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, there is also a potential for increased use of forest opportunities, which can generate tens of thousands of new jobs. These are both traditional and new jobs, and there are both traditional and new products and both traditional and new opportunities. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has the potential to build sustainable and comprehensive aquaculture. We have an excellent geography for aquaculture in the seas, lakes and other watercourses, but relatively little of these products reach the Swedish consumers. At the same time, the import of fish products for consumption to Sweden is extensive. There is no doubt room for increasing the proportion of Swedish fish products on the Swedish market, which would help to strengthen Sweden's self-sufficiency in food. Among other things, we want to strengthen the appropriations for fisheries and agriculture in order to support aquaculture in accordance with the action plan for the development of Swedish aquaculture developed by the industry together with the authorities. These are measures such as simplified regulations, easier management of environmental permits and support for the various research and breeding programmes of the industry. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats propose that 338 million be allocated for a new grant, namely animal welfare allowance. Sweden is the only country in the EU that has a statutory grazing requirement for dairy cows. The requirement means that the cows must graze outdoors between two and four months per year, depending on the climate. Behaviour is in itself positive and can give the cows better health and the possibility of natural behavior. It also contributes to other values, such as open landscapes and biodiversity. We believe that it is in harmony with the ambitions of animal welfare we have, but it can also be a competitive disadvantage for Swedish farmers as higher costs and some other parts are added. We therefore want to introduce a grazing premium of SEK 1 000 per dairy cow per year. For the individual dairy farmer this would mean economic reinforcement, but it is above all an important measure to strengthen and value Swedish milk production. Mr President, I would like to At the turn of the year, the diesel tax will be increased by 17 cents per litre. There is no compensation for agriculture and forestry in the 2017 budget. The Government's proposed increase in diesel tax means an increased cost for agriculture of approximately SEK 45 million. Instead, we in the Swedish Democrats want to reduce the tax on fuel. We want to reduce it to the level that prevails in Denmark, i.e. 60 øre per litre. This means that we want to increase the refund by SEK 3.26 per litre. Swedish farmers compete in the same market as Danish and other European farmers, and we therefore believe that it is reasonable that the level of taxation is the same. This is a relatively large reform, but it would certainly bring economic relief to individual farmers. We are therefore allocating almost 1.6 billion in the budget for this purpose. Mr President, I would like to In their draft budget, the Swedish Democrats choose to abolish tax subsidies on so-called first generation biofuels. It is biofuels that are made from agricultural raw materials and whose environmental benefits are extremely questionable. In fact, agricultural biofuels generate high CO2 emissions when produced, and increased demand can ultimately lead to the destruction of, for example, tropic forests in other countries. It has been said in the past that tax relief on biofuels is a way of supporting Swedish farmers. But one should be aware that the ethanol and biodiesel consumed in Sweden to 80-90 percent are imported and that its positive effect on Swedish agriculture should thus be considered negligible. In the draft budget, SD saves 3.7 billion by abolishing these tax subsidies. At the same time, as has been said before, we are reducing the tax on diesel by 1.6 billion. We are also opposed to the government's continued increases in taxes on petrol and diesel. It is taxes that hit those who live and work in the countryside the hardest. All in all, our proposals on reduced diesel tax, grazing compensation and reduced wage costs for small businesses represent an improved financial performance of several hundred thousand per year for a medium-sized dairy farm. We believe that this is perfectly reasonable. It is time for the Swedish Parliament and the Swedish Government to realise that Swedish agriculture is effectively competing in a tough European market. Hard rules and higher tax burdens lead to lower competitiveness, which only results in Swedish food production moving abroad and job losses. It does not benefit the environment, animal welfare or Swedish welfare in general. In the end, this is about the Swedish Democrats choosing to prioritise Swedish rural areas and Swedish farmers – for real.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1111	Mr President, I would like to I can say that if we Social Democrats had been able to deal with budgetary issues as easily and creatively as the Swedish Democrats, who can totally ignore certain costs, it would have been easy to invest in all areas of the budget. We voted on the budget the other week, after all, SD's budget bill fell. 15 seconds after that, the SD supported the Moderates' budget proposal, which would mean significant reductions in the many areas we are talking about today. There were 2 billion and 300 million less in this area compared to your draft budget, Anders Forsberg. I find that logic incredibly difficult to understand. Are you telling your constituents that if you do not get your draft budget through, you will support another proposal – which is a real slap in the mouth for those you claim to be working for? It is not only in the field of agricultural policy that you disagree, but in several areas. When this comes out to your constituents, how are you going to explain that you stand for a reduction of 2 billion and 300 million in this area?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1114	Mr President, I would like to In terms of how we finance our draft budget, we are doing it quite well by cutting back on climate and the purchase of nature reserves. This corresponds roughly to the amount we set aside for increases in Category 23. So I have no problem standing behind the figures. As far as our elections are concerned, and in this case we chose to vote with the Moderates, they are so that we voted primarily on our budget motion. Since no other party chose to vote for it, we chose to vote on it and follow the Moderates. We believe that this is still the closest thing we can achieve to the policy we want to pursue in Parliament. We show quite clearly here, not only to the Alliance but also to the electorate, that we want to make a change and that we are prepared to contribute to that change. Unfortunately, in this case, the Alliance did not choose to coordinate around a common budget. D et will also be very interesting how to do 2017, ahead of the election 2018. Will a common policy be possible? However, the Alliance will have to answer that.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1117	Mr President, I would like to When Anders Forsberg asked for a reply to the Moderates, he said that the Moderates' budget motion was broadly similar to that of the Swedish Democrats. However, I still find this a little hard to understand. You are talking about how you finance your draft budget, Anders Forsberg, but that is not what you voted for in the last place. You voted for the Moderates' draft budget. If it had gone through, you'd have to go out and tell me why you'd cut this sector down by $2,300 million. That's what you're gonna have to stand up for. That's what you're pushing. Now the voters know that you will do so next year too. No matter what you say or do, you can jump on something else. I have heard Swedish democrats say in the workplace that they are fighting for LO workers and that they should have better conditions – and last week you voted in favour of not having to have collective agreements in order to be involved in procurement. I read an ad from Poland the other day. It states that the company distributes its own entrepreneurs from Poland and Bulgaria. Thus, the labour force they provide is not covered by Swedish labour law, which means that the employer is not required to negotiate with the union. No obs, no child care, no allowances, no holiday pay, no sick pay. The employer is thus offered a unique, cost-effective staffing solution, and it will be easier for the employer to control labour costs. That is what you voted for last week! That's how you push your argument. We'll fight for you, but we'll be happy to knock our legs off with our knees!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1121	Mr President, I would like to Now we jump quite well between the subjects, but if we are to approach the collective agreement, I think Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson is aware that the proposals from the government would have been extremely damaging, especially for small farmers and small businesses. Their potential could have been affected because many of them are not connected to the community. They would have had major problems selling, for example, locally produced food or locally produced food. We as a party choose to take a stand on this issue based on the overall picture. The government has achieved almost all of its proposal, except for these parts. Then you have to go back and negotiate to find a better proposal. Regarding how to prioritise as a party and which issues we think are important, I think Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson is also quite aware of the political game. But it is also, as I have said before, a question of marking to our constituents what we want to do and what we prioritise most. I believe that the biggest problem we have to solve in this country is the extremely damaging migration policy that we have been pursuing for 30 to 40 years. We have to change that. I am glad that, hopefully, the Moderates are sobering up on this issue to some extent. This is our top priority. Then come the other parts, and we can stand up for our agricultural policy without any problems. But I think we need to change migration policy.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1125	Mr President, I would like to In order to strengthen the green industries, increase employment throughout the country and provide the conditions for increased production and processing of Swedish food, we have presented in the Center Party in our budget alternative what we have named a peasant package. We have done this because we want to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture and provide the conditions and opportunities to increase the production of food in Sweden. But we have also done so in order to create more employment and to maintain and develop the environmental values that exist in all parts of our country. What, then, do we propose in our peasant package? We say that it is important to keep costs down – that's why we lower the social security contribution for agricultural entrepreneurs. We increase the refund of the diesel tax, and we invest in green conversion. Then what does the government do? The government, for its part, does not propose anything, nor in this budget. There is no effort to reverse the negative spiral in which Swedish food business is involved. To this it is added that it has now been over two years since the current red-green government chose to close the alliance government's vision of Matlandet Sweden, which was a breeding ground for growth throughout the food chain. The investment in Matlandet Sweden created jobs in restaurants and tourism, but also in agriculture and the processing industry linked to the mill, just to mention a few things. This effort also increased food exports, to take another example. Despite the important function of the Matlandet, the current government has chosen not to compensate for the loss caused by the liquidation by any measures whatsoever. During the time of the Red-Green Government, Swedish agriculture, and the food chain in general, have been forced to state that the current government has pressed the pause button. There is absolutely nothing happening to develop things that give jobs. Nothing has been done in terms of providing better production conditions or competitiveness to the important industry we are talking about this evening. Mr President, I would like to To this shall be added the trixing involved in the rural development programme. For example, rural money is used to give money — in itself necessary, but still — to administrative tasks at the Swedish Board of Agriculture. You move money that would have given development throughout the country to administrative things on a state authority, which should have real state funds and nothing else. It chooses to go out widely and say that it is now even more to support the roll-out of broadband across the country. But what do you do? Well, you take money from development opportunities in the rural development programme and you put it on what you call a new investment in broadband deployment. Mr President, I would like to It is hypocrisy to spend money twice, for that is exactly what you do. However, in order to get to the point in my speech, I am obliged, like previous speakers, to note that Parliament has previously decided on the financial perspective, and that is where our alternative has fallen. That is why we will abstain from the vote that may take place in the future.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1135	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to talk about animals with Eskil Erlandsson. This does not apply to any animal, but to animals used in painful animal experiments. There are many animals used in animal experiments in Sweden – nearly 1 million animals are used and killed each year in animal experiments. That's about 2,700 animals a day. These are mice, rats, birds, dogs and other animals used in animal experiments. We know that with a conscious approach to reducing the number of animals in animal testing, there can be plenty of alternatives to animal testing. It may not be possible to replace all animal testing overnight, but at least that is the idea of setting up a centre to minimise, replace and refine animal testing. This is usually called 3R-center, which comes from the English replace, reduce, refine and thus is about replacing, reducing and refining animal experiments. There has not been much of this centre, even though it was already mentioned at the time when you, Eskil, were the minister responsible. But now we have got funding into this budget. This is about SEK 15 million each year for this centre to be manned, to have contact with the research and to work systematically on the basis of the 3R principles of reducing and replacing animal experiments. I was so disappointed, Eskil Erlandsson, when I read your budget option. You want to withdraw all that money so that there will be no 3R centre to reduce animal testing. Why do you do that, Eskil Erlandsson?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1139	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Now I do not have the exact sum in my head, but it is an agricultural university that has billions in funding. Reasonably, similar things as those mentioned in the question should be dealt with within the large amount of funding available at this university.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1141	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit strange because even Eskil Erlandsson during his time as Minister of Agriculture said that the Swedish Agriculture Agency would work with a 3R centre and that one would be set up at the Swedish Agriculture Agency. You said it would be done, but you didn't bring out any money for it. Then there was actually no 3R center. There was no work to reduce and replace animal testing. We now have funding for this, and you are opposed to that funding. Why don't you want to protect the animals, Eskil Erlandsson? Why do you not want to reduce and replace animal testing when we know it can be done? But then we also need some money.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1143	Mr President, I would like to In short, we have come to the conclusion that this is very much about research, and the research carried out in this area is within the framework of the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1144	Mr President, I would like to We are now discussing agriculture, rural areas and food. It could actually be summed up by the fact that it is a matter of providing the conditions for the whole country to live. I note that with the Parliament's decision, the Liberals' proposal for a financial framework has fallen. You can be sad for a while. However, this means that we are presenting our positions in a separate opinion, because, after all, on the Liberal side we see a great value in keeping the budget and the budgetary process together. In our draft budget, the large draft budget, we make a number of horizontal priorities, which is important when discussing each area of expenditure. Otherwise, the bets are in the air somehow. Our main initiatives and priorities include school, entrepreneurship, defence and integration. Police and the judiciary are also priority issues. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to point out that in our budget we have a clear profile and a clear green tax shift. It can, of course, be further developed, but we think we have started up very well with this. It is a question of shifting taxes so that certain environmental taxes are increased according to the polluter pays principle, while reducing taxes on labour. In the Liberals' proposal, the government's proposal is almost 20 billion less in direct taxes on labour. But you have to switch for something. In line with this, the Liberals have a proposal for a new leakage tax aimed at eutrophication and at the cadmium content of commercial fertilisers, which of course affects rural areas in one way or another. We also have a proposal for a differentiated travel allowance, which is a good thing for rural areas if you look at it strictly in the short term. Furthermore, we propose the phasing out of subsidies on fossil fuels and fuels and the increase in vehicle taxes on high-emission cars. We also have some other proposals, but these are examples that I think can be highlighted. We can also note that in the Liberals' budget there are 27 billion less in expenditure than in the budget submitted by the Government with the support of the Left Party. Clearly, it places demands on completely different priorities. In Category 23, which we are now discussing, our draft budget is 200 million lower than the government's proposal, which is 17.2 billion. Then there is some redeployment within the financial framework. With the efforts we are making, we are spending 100 billion more than the government on broadband deployment linked to the rural development programme. As far as agricultural and food policy is concerned, the Liberals' guiding principle is the market and sustainability perspective, and we emphasise this in every context. As far as climate and environmental costs are concerned, the rural sectors will also ultimately bear their own costs. And you should use the instruments available to produce both efficient and climate-smart technologies. With regard to the hopefully forthcoming food strategy, the same is true. There we also have a market and consumer perspective. It must be possible to exploit the potential of Swedish food production. This is not about export subsidies or other subsidies, but about exploiting the clear added value that exists in Swedish production, such as good animal welfare and low antibiotic use. If I understood it correctly, Jan-Olof Larsson and I agree – I have previously not really felt that the Social Democrats are moving in that direction – that it is demand that will control production. At least that is our absolute position on the matter. Mr President, I would like to Sustainable fishing, agriculture and forestry are also part of the solution to today's climate and environmental challenges. In this way, this is very much connected with the debate we will have next week on nature conservation and the environment. It will also be a lot about rural areas. Mr President, I would like to Now we have discussed a lot of agriculture, but the countryside is more than agriculture, such as fishing. Fishing and fish products were mentioned here at some point. The basis for a living coast and the archipelago is that we have sustainable fishing in Sweden. We have a major challenge ahead of us, also with other countries, namely the landing obligation that is now gradually being introduced under the reformed EU acquis. That's what we all say. The waste of resources that has been involved in fishing, which has thrown food fish into the sea because of the quota system, is, of course, totally unacceptable. But the important thing in this context is that we are now working further so that the regulatory changes that need to be made in the long run do not disadvantage the coastal and small-scale fishing that is the most important thing in Swedish waters. That concludes my speech.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1159	Mr President, I would like to There were many good points that Lars Tysklind raised and which I am absolutely convinced that both I and my party can stand up for in the forthcoming discussions. Lars Tysklind and I are usually able to agree on certain issues. As regards the importance of asserting consumer influence and consumer demand, i.e. the market economy in agriculture, we are in complete agreement. The position of the Liberals goes completely against that of the other alliance parties. They claim more planning à la Soviet Union, state interventions, more subsidies and so on. The Liberals are distancing themselves from this, which honors them. Priority is given to consumer choice over the market that governs this development. Lars Tysklind! There are today a number of aids that need to be dealt with, as well as my opposition to the EU's planned management of the agricultural sector. But if the Liberals now think it's so important for the country with Swedish food production, I don't understand why the party wants to put its draft budget completely away from Swedish agriculture. The party wants to kick every sixth employee at the Swedish Board of Agriculture without saying why or which business is going away. It's completely unserious. Then we should know that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has had huge problems with managing its budget and operations this year. I don't want to use that expression, but in this case it's an understatement. It has worked very hard to produce farm subsidies and everything else planned because the milk crisis has hit so hard around the country. In this situation, the Liberals choose to make a historical reduction in resources. I don't understand that, Lars Tysklind. How do you explain that?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1163	Mr President, I would like to That's why I started by looking at the total. If you spend almost 20 billion more on work than we do, you can of course distribute a lot more money. Liberals think it's wrong and growth retardation. There will be negative signs in the future instead. You might think the Board of Agriculture needs more money. But our starting point is that the state authorities must try to resolve this by changing organisation and re-prioritising. When we talk about cuts, we start from the government proposal. But many of the Liberals' appropriations remain on the same amount as before. However, I do not know whether this is the case with the Swedish Board of Agriculture. It is not a question of cutting so much, it is a question of not having so much increases. The total is 200 million. So there is just over 1% difference between our budget and the government budget. I am clear that we are setting different priorities, and I think that is a good thing.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1167	Mr President, I would like to One percent is 211 million, and the Swedish Board of Agriculture is about to cut by 103 million. We want to invest $69 million because the Board of Agriculture has been so overloaded. In an interpellation debate the other week, we talked about the poor peasants who did not get their money. I agree with that. But the Board of Agriculture has paid out 9 billion, and now 600 million are missing. They have gone on their knees and even worse so that these farmers, who have counted on this money, can get it. In this situation, Lars Tysklind, you choose to reduce large sums of money on the Agriculture Agency, even though they visited us in committee and told us that they do not make the budget as it is. It doesn't seem serious. 1 percent is not much money, but many of the crowns go to fixed expenses that you cannot do so much about without cutting as drastically as you do. It's unimaginable to me, and I don't understand how your alliance mates will react to this. We have had interpellation after interpellation for a couple of years about the dairy farmers, and something we can influence is that they get their support as soon as possible. But now you're laying back on it, Lars Tysklind.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1172	Mr President, I would like to I am of the opinion that it does not depend on the 103 million, but on quite different factors that this money has not been paid out. I agree that this is unacceptable. Often the total amount is stated as the result, but it is perhaps not but who has received the money that is important. There are agricultural and environmental subsidies of relatively small amounts, under SEK 100 000, but for a specific activity this money is vital. I have no reason to prioritise anything, but these groups have been down-priority because priority has been given to paying out the large sums. I think that's wrong. The Board of Agriculture will receive 500 million in our draft budget. Within this framework, priority must be given to its activities. That is our priority.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1176	Mr President, I would like to I would like to join in the previous question about the large reduction in the Board of Agriculture's appropriations of SEK 103 million proposed by the Liberals in their draft budget. Some of our efforts at the Swedish Board of Agriculture are being made to enable the Swedish Board of Agriculture to set up a 3R centre to reduce the number of animal experiments, which I mentioned earlier in my discussion with the Centre Party's Eskil Erlandsson. As I understand the Liberals' draft budget, this means that neither do the Liberals want to spend any money on the creation of a 3R centre to reduce animal testing. I would like to hear directly from Lars Tysklind: is it true that the Liberals are saying no to money for a centre to reduce the number of animal experiments? My second question concerns the protection of forests. I thought the Liberals stood up for us to protect more forest. But judge of my surprise when I read the Liberals' budget motion and saw that you wanted to reduce the grant 1:2 Efforts for forestry by 72 million SEK. It is about forest owners being able to conclude nature conservation agreements, biotop agreements etc. with the Swedish Forest Board or a county administrative board. Previously, we heard from the Moderates that there should be no contributions. At least that's how I interpreted it. Does this mean that the Liberals also believe that no compensation should be paid to forest owners who want to protect forests? It is perfectly reasonable to be able to get compensation if you want to protect forests. That is why we are allocating this money, which you unfortunately largely dismiss. Why do you do that, Lars Tysklind?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1182	Mr President, I would like to Let's take the woods first. We take much less into tax to secure future growth in the country, a growth that does not seem to worry the Left Party very much. In the forestry budget line, the Liberals have 250 million. Jens Holm makes it sound like we have zeroed the proposal, but 250 million is also quite a lot of money to work on this. Within this framework, great benefits can be made. We believe that there are efforts to be made, but we have given priority so that 250 million goes to this. I think a 3R center is the right way to go. There should be no unnecessary animal testing. But the question is where it should be, how it should be designed and who should pay. It is as soon as possible that the University of Agricultural Sciences and research should give priority to this. Apparently it's a sum of 15 million, unless I misunderstood Jens Holm. The University of Agriculture has a number of crowns and can give priority to this issue.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1186	Mr President, I would like to Then why didn't you do anything when you were in the government? You also talked about the importance of reducing animal testing and that the establishment of a 3R centre was a good idea. But nothing happened, Lars Tysklind. Now we've got 15 million kroner. Of course, it will not solve everything, but it will in any case be a centre that can coordinate the work and work closely with the research, which in turn conducts research on alternative methods. Research must itself develop alternative methods, but we believe that there is a need for a catalyst and someone to coordinate this work. This is why a 3R centre to reduce animal testing is so important. I think you're really stupid, if you don't mind. You are one-sidedly prioritising the reduction of taxes, and then you do not have a crown over to protect animals. That's a really bad grade. Of course you have some money left to protect the forest. But the needs are enormous if we are to meet our commitment from Nagoya and our environmental goals Living forests and A rich plant and animal life. Then we must do more, Lars Tysklind. There's a big commitment out there. Many forest owners want to protect forests, and it is reasonable for them to receive compensation. In that case, we must allocate more money, and then it does not hold to reduce the grant, Lars Tysklind. A reduction of SEK 73 million is a reduction of approximately 25 percent. I would say that it is a rather severe cut in the protection of forests.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1191	Mr President, I would like to The grant goes to some other things as well. Next week we will discuss the forest further and also conservation from an environmental point of view. Then we will have a similar discussion. In the debate and in the report on Category 20, the Liberals have pointed out that we want to spend a number of millions on natural and old forests. The amount we invest depends on how much we have to distribute. Within the framework in which it is prepared to allocate, these are priorities. It is about appropriations, and we talk about it a lot when we have follow-up. When we talk about betting, it is often about the number of crowns and not about exactly what we do. We were talking about 3R centers. I believe that every Swedish citizen thinks that animal testing is something to be avoided. Then it is not possible to avoid in all situations, but you should try to do so as far as possible. If it is the sum of 15 million we are discussing, it should be very reasonable to prioritise this within the research funding available.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1194	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 4. When I go around Sweden I am happy and grateful for what I see out in the countryside, which last autumn when I was out in the beautiful Östgöta district. In a tractor with a mowing crusher sat a farmer and knocked down grass for silage to the cows. Not far from there was grain threshing, and there was dust everywhere when he went around in his field. I went on, and later I saw young animals grazing in the beautiful oak landscape. As I said, it was an amazing sight, and I am happy and grateful for what our Swedish farmers are doing around the country. But does it really look like that? What is happening in our countryside? Mr President, I would like to Every day a dairy farmer closes down his business in our country. In ten years, the number of dairy holdings has been more than halved. With every dairy company that closes down, five jobs are being lost from rural areas. Another consequence is now evident for those of us who love to walk in meadows and pastures to view beautiful flowers and environments. In ten years, 20 percent of all pastures and pastures have grown again with shrubs and sly. In beautiful meadows that a few years ago were able to show off catfoot, hop blossoms or other beautiful flowers are growing today spruces, or they are just lying for the foat and bush. I certainly do not want to sound pessimistic, but I can unfortunately guarantee that what we are seeing today is just the beginning. The competitiveness inquiry, which we received a few years ago, was just talking about the competition that our farmers must relate to and which is costly. As early as 1997, there was an investigation that warned that if nothing is done, Swedish agriculture will be the same fate as the tea industry did in Sweden in the 80's. We Christian Democrats believe that the milk crisis in Sweden is so acute that action must be taken. We have been a driving force for political action in this area and have arranged Milk Day in Parliament, both 2015 and 2016, where farmers, politicians, dairies, trade and authorities have met to discuss solutions to the acute crisis. But more needs to be done. We therefore propose, as part of our efforts to improve the conditions of competition for Swedish dairy farmers, a reinforced aid of SEK 1 000 per cow per year. Mr President, I would like to In my discussions with farmers, the much delayed EU payments always come up. We are not talking about a few farmers, but about several thousand who have not yet received the payments from 2015 to which they are entitled. Hundreds of thousands of dollars have not been paid out. Several had been promised that the compensation would come by the end of October this year, but now the Swedish Board of Agriculture has said that the compensation will be paid in the second half of 2017. So we are talking about two years. This is not reasonable – no entrepreneur should have to wait so long. We can turn this thing around. What if the farmer were to say to the state: That payment we owe you, if it wants to be well, in a year's time? It could be in two years. I hope you understand that. Well, you wouldn't even think about it, but that's how it works for farmers. It seems that the attitude is that you can do anything with the farmers – it always works out. The farmer has assumed his responsibilities and fulfilled his commitments, and now it is high time for the state to fulfil itss. If the money is not paid out as soon as possible, the government must take other measures to ensure that the farmers' liquidity and creditworthiness are not affected by the now unreasonably long delay in payments. It is ultimately a question of honesty and credibility, Madam President. It is not a responsible agricultural policy. We see that the climate is changing all the time. For example, what we used to call a hundred years of rain is now ten years of rain. This means that heavy rains are becoming more common and causing trouble for many. This year this was not the main problem, but it was that it was incredibly dry. It was so dry that it can be described as disaster in some parts of the country. We heard about Öland and the farmers there and some parts of Götaland. The grass ran out for the animals on the pastures, and the farmers had to feed silage that was intended for winter feed already in the summer. As everyone understands, it was a huge loss and very tough financial situation for several farms, especially for dairy farmers who have had record poor settlement prices. Here we Christian Democrats want it to be examined whether any kind of fund for disaster damage in agriculture can be set up. Madam President, I would like I started by talking about how happy and grateful I am about what Swedish agriculture is doing for the country. However, I am also concerned that many people choose to close down because of poor profitability. Of course, it has a knock-on effect. We have seen for a long time how our self-sufficiency has gone down, and now it is below 50%. Every other bite we eat does not come from Sweden. What if there is no food supply to our country for various reasons? Then the shelves will be empty here in Sweden's capital after two days. It is now high time that we started to think about this politically and that we have a plan to increase self-sufficiency.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1212	Madam President, I would like In ten years, the Alliance has presented nine budgets. It has a very big responsibility for what it looks like in Swedish agriculture today. During eight years the diesel tax for the farmers was increased twice. The reduction for diesel was removed twice for the farmers. What did we do? Well, we increased the reduction for the peasants and gave them relief. We reduced the so-called backpack. It doesn't hurt with a little self-examination, Magnus Oscarsson. A little self-examination would be refreshing. I listened to the interpellation debate you took part in about the poor dairy farmers. I agree. We are very worried about agriculture in Sweden – for food production in general and for dairy farmers in particular. But, Magnus Oscarsson, in the Christian Democrats' draft budget, you are deducting 75 million at the Swedish Board of Agriculture, which will be involved in paying out these subsidies. How does it make the situation better for those who are going to pay out this support money to the farmers? This is very difficult to understand. I have learned a lot from Eskil Erlandsson during the years that I have been sitting here in Parliament. One thing that I have learned, and which I remember very well, is about the EU's rules on state aid. We cannot come up with any kind of support, especially those where there is legislation in this area. Then you can't come up with any support.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1219	Madam President, I would like I thank you, Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson, for the question. I also thank you for agreeing with me when I talk about the situation of the dairy farmers in our country. It's fun, and above all very good, that I get sympathy. You say you understand how the farmers who are now affected in this way have it. So we are talking about thousands of farmers who have not yet received this support. What's interesting is that you're talking about how the last government did it. I can say that everything that was done then, of course, was not the best thing. I think many people would have said that we would not have done that, but would have done it differently. I think the most important thing is to be humble, and I am the first to say that, of course, we should have done it differently. But with that said, Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson, it is now actually you and your party together with the Green Party and Left that will rule and place in our country. Then I wish you'd get to grips with the things that you still see are troubling. As far as I understand it, you are now going to increase the diesel tax again. You said you had reduced it, and it's great and nice. But now you're actually going to increase the diesel tax. There are 17 cents more per litre to be paid by farmers. While you're standing here, I can ask you a question, Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson. What about the mileage tax? Will it be introduced? In that case, it is another charge from your party and the government that will strike the peasants.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1225	Madam President, I would like We increased the diesel tax last year, and we are compensating for that with greater deductions. You raised it a couple of times, and you dropped it a couple of times. You'll have to be a little self-critical. We are talking about the dairy farmers who are in trouble now. Now you stand here, Magnus Oscarsson, and present a budget where you reduce 75 million at the Swedish Board of Agriculture, where we propose 69 million for them to manage to pay out the subsidies to the dairy farmers in time and preferably earlier than what is said in their forecast. You are proposing SEK 330 million – SEK 1 000 per cow – in state aid, which is not really legal according to the EU. How do you fund it? Yes, you take it from the Rural Programme. But this is not included in the Rural Programme. You were involved in creating most of the parts of the Rural Programme. This crisis did not come today; it did not come yesterday; it came a few years ago when you were in power. You had plenty of time to take action. But you did nothing more than raise diesel tax, impose new charges and make it even worse for agriculture – dairy farmers, pig farmers and so on. Can't you tell us, Magnus Oscarsson – we're all ears – what sharp measures you took during your time and that facilitated agriculture? Our Rural Minister Bucht has contributed a number of hundred million to strengthen agriculture in various areas, not least in the cow sector. It will be very interesting to find out what you did during the time you presented nine budgets. I think a lot of people want to know, not just me.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1231	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Jan-Olof Larsson once again for his question. As I have said, I cannot say that everything we did during our time in the government was good. I have to be humble and say that. But again you push the ball over to me, and I will answer for this. I have been in Parliament for two years and may not be fully aware of what the previous government did during two terms of office. But there's someone sitting here who can tell you. You avoid answering my question, but I wonder: What about the mileage tax? Will it be introduced? It will be very interesting to hear it in your speech in a moment. You will certainly discuss how you view this issue. If the kilometre tax is introduced, it is directly anti-rural. With an increase in diesel tax, it is also very serious. Many of us talk a lot about the whole of Sweden living, at least during the election years. But now, Mr Jan-Olof, during the middle election period you have the chance to show the Swedish people and people in the countryside that you are serious and that these are not just words every four years but words right now. You actually have the President's stick in different ways, so you can steer and set. I therefore hope that this will come. This is your last debate, Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson, and I would like to thank you very much for all the interesting debates with you. Many thanks, and good luck in the future!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1236	Madam President, I would like The debate today concerns the budgetary area of agriculture, fisheries, agriculture, rural areas and food. In 2002 I became a member of Parliament. In a few weeks, I'll be leaving this very interesting job. Therefore, there is reason to look back on developments in this area. If I start with agriculture, I can say that, in terms of how many people work with primary production, there have been quite small changes in these years. Today about 55 000 people work there, and so was when I started in Parliament. In total, 177 000 people have some part of their livelihood in agriculture. So was it in 2002 when I started here. But if we look at the number of companies, we see that the number has fallen sharply. That's what I'd call a structural rationalization. Companies are becoming more efficient and hopefully more competitive. The number of dairy cows per company has, on average, doubled in the years I have been in Parliament. But we also know that almost one in four dairy cows has disappeared during this time. We see the same change in pig farming. If we look at the statistics on crop cultivation, another insight will emerge. There seems to be no crisis here. The area cultivated has not decreased during my time. Cattle farming has increased and set-aside is decreasing. Madam President, I would like During my time in the Riksdag, we politicians have stressed the importance of Swedish consumers being told what they eat, that producers should show what is Swedish, that those who produce products with Swedish-sounding names – Lönneberga sausage and other – should live up to the name by having Swedish raw materials, which is far from always the case, and that restaurants should dare to show where their raw materials come from. The resistance has been great. But I feel that I have seen a turn in recent years. The EU's strengthened labelling rules produce results. A very good cooperation between companies in Sweden has also led to increased labelling of meat and dairy products. The effect came directly: The sale of Swedish meat is increasing. The Swedes believe that Swedish food has good quality. If they learn what is Swedish, Swedish farmers can also charge more for their goods. Madam President, I would like My father was a fisherman in Bohuslän. I myself became an industrial worker, but my parliamentary term has allowed me to return to the environments in which my father stayed and talk to people who work there today and understand their conditions. I have spent much of my time working on issues relating to the future of fishing, with the jobs of our coastal and archipelago communities and with securing fish stocks so that the fishermen of the future also have something to fish. We have gone from Sweden as the only EU country warning against the risk that our most common stocks could actually disappear if nothing was done to the EU and Sweden now implementing rules to ensure that we only charge the interest on our fish stocks and that we ban the discard of dead fish. As in any Social Democratic policy, I have fought for us to have both feet on the ground. One foot stands for securing jobs, growth and competitiveness and the other for doing so in a sustainable way so that the Earth's resources are secured to future generations. A great deal of work remains to be done. One example is the possibilities for aquaculture, which I do not believe is being used enough in Sweden. It was with us that the Norwegians learned aquaculture. Today, we need to learn from their strategy in order to get this industry going in Sweden. It can create jobs in rural areas and sustainable, climate-smart food. Unfortunately, developments in recent years have been negative. From a sharp increase until 2012, the amount of fish produced has again decreased. Madam President, I would like I shall now address a few points in the budget for Category 23 delivered by the government, which I think are important to underline in this debate. The Swedish Board of Agriculture receives increased funding to cope with the difficult and tough situation caused by the milk crisis. The cuts proposed by several bourgeois parties would have disastrous effects on Swedish agriculture. . Eldrimner, the national centre in Östersund, is now receiving a fixed grant. Here we social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties agree with the Centre Party to invest in small-scale food production, which benefits not least the tourism industry. The Government is investing an additional 850 million in broadband expansion in areas where there are no conditions for commercial expansion. The government will work to promote development and contribute to increasing the production, consumption and export of organic food and will therefore allocate 25 million. Finally, I note that the government has initiated important processes, and all aim to secure jobs in rural areas. The work of the national forest programme will contribute to jobs and growth throughout the country as well as to the development of a growing bioeconomy. The forest is the green gold for Sweden. The work of the L andrural Committee only partly concerns Category 23, but here I hope that for the first time all parties in the Riksdag will be able to develop a coherent policy on how to cope with the major problems of rural areas. The development of a food strategy has taken far too long. If it is not possible to get a cross-block proposal, I hope that the government will skip the Riksdag and set the food strategy in a government decision. Neither the food industry nor the countryside have time to wait any longer. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1257	Madam President, I would like I will not use this shift to tell you what the alliance government did for Swedish rural areas and Swedish agriculture through the abolition of commercial manure tax, halved own taxes, the building of the vision of Matlandet Sweden and so on. I shall not use this moment to talk about hypocrisy, as I believe it is, in the management of the gigantic rural programme negotiated by the Alliance Government. I will not use this moment to talk about fish in either the Baltic Sea or the North Sea. Nor will I talk about the threat to the Swedish countryside in the mileage tax which, as I understand it, the current government is planning to introduce, but I will use this moment to thank Mr Jan-Olof-Olof for many, long and sometimes, at least in my opinion, entertaining debates. I wish you happiness, success and prosperity in your future life. Have a good time!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1261	Madam President, I would like I shall certainly not say that there is no kilometre tax proposal on Parliament's table. And I will certainly not say that we received 344 corrections to the rural programme, as the Allian Government said, but I will also thank you for 15 instructive years. During eight of them you, Eskil Erlandsson, were Minister for Rural Affairs. It has been fun, interesting and educational. Thank you very much.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1262	Madam President, I would like It's hard to take on after a transition like this. I was gonna ask you some tougher questions. Jan-Olof Larsson is a person who is not afraid to express himself, and I have to tell you that there is something that I very much appreciate. I think that Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson now has the chance to really say what he thinks about a question. That would be interesting to hear. We have debated forestry issues a great deal here. This is about outdoor organisations and environmental organisations and the feeling that many forest owners have that they move into these areas. Now's your chance, Jan-Olof Larsson. What do you think?
i-NjRrQ2Pi3v2CVa7CLAUb1p	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Anders Forsberg! With regard to the appeal part of the Aarhus Convention, it can be annoying, for example, when people like me and others here live on the west coast and want to do something and someone appeals and troubles themselves whether they live there or not. It can sometimes be annoying, but it is a major and important part of democracy. Over the years I've been here, I've been fighting with beaks and claws because we can't restrict the right of public access. You should also have the opportunity to have things tested under the Aarhus Convention, which we are actually in. I know that the Swedish Democrats do not want to be in the EU and that they do not want the Aarhus Convention either. There we have a slightly different opinion, and I think that if we have signed a convention, we shall also follow what it says. I hope it was clear.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1270	Madam President, I would like Before I finish, I would like to say that one can question whether it is reasonable for outdoor life, environmental organisations or other organised public opinion to have the opportunity to test normal forestry. However, I think we should continue this debate in another forum. On our part, I would like to thank you for the work you have done. As I have said before, I have appreciated the straight dialogue that Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson has always had. You've always been honest and easy to hang out with, and I think we've had a lot in common in our view of things even if we don't share political insight.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1272	Madam President, I would like I should also like to express my thanks. Thank you for the discussions we've had and the trips we've been on together when we've got to know each other. Thank you for the good debates!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1273	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of interesting things in the speech Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson gave. It is possible to agree with some things but of course not all of them. I reacted to a few things even during the line shifts. I'll try to make it up to you so you can finish with a little debate, too, Jan-Olof. You asked the question in a change of line: What did you do during your years? You were talking about structural rationalizations in agriculture. There was a great deal that was done under the alliance government and that was done right. In the statistics contained in the report, we see that the number of food businesses increased by 26%, and the value of food exports increased by 57% between 2008 and 2015. It was an example, but there are many more such figures. So some were probably done right. The problem is that the current government is taking a different approach. Instead of reducing costs, rather than reducing the regulatory burden, we are moving in the other direction. Taxes will be increased by SEK 40 billion for 2017 alone, and this will create problems. I'd like to ask you a question about the mileage tax. Now Jan-Olof Larsson says that there is no such proposal, but government representatives have repeatedly said that they intend to come forward with such a proposal. I'm curious if Jan-Olof Larsson can explain to me how this can create jobs and growth in rural areas. Then I also have to deal with this with the diesel tax reduction. There is, of course, an assessment in each situation. It is possible that the assessment made by the Alliance Government in reducing the reduction was incorrect. The Alliance reduced the reduction, but so did the Social Democrats. In your budget motions, you were in favour of this reduction. It is a little strange to try here to argue that you would have stood for another line, because you did not.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1278	Madam President, I would like That we stand for another line we showed immediately when we took power. Then we lowered the tax and carried out a larger tax reduction. As far as the kilometre tax is concerned, we are now investing more than ever in order to have a better infrastructure in Sweden. We do not think it is more than reasonable for hauliers, as in Germany and in other European countries, to share the burden. 80% of Norwegian exports go to E6. Of course the Norwegians should be involved in paying for it. A survey has been carried out at a place in Småland of the truck traffic that passed there. Eighty percent had foreign drivers. There are two parts here. On the one hand, you should be involved in funding, and on the other hand it should be the nicest conditions for those who sit behind the steering wheel. I know you're against it, but the fact that they're going to pay should be an advantage. We'll never put our legs away for the countryside. We will take into account the considerations that need to be taken into account. But we will make sure that we get money from those who are involved in the road. Then I just want to say that there is no meat tax on the way. In the environmental objectives preparation, where you participated, you agreed that we should reduce carnivorous eating. You signed that. You can come up with an explanation of how to do this yourself. In 2006, when you took over power, there was a budget surplus of 60 billion. When we took over power, the budget deficit was 80 billion. There is no deficit of 80 billion next year in the budget, but it is almost in balance. That's how you handle the budget in a good way. I just wanted to give you an explanation of the questions you asked.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1286	Madam President, I would like We don't have a budget deficit this year. Now we are in a boom, and we have a budget in balance. It is booming, and the government is presenting a budget of 11 billion in deficit. When there was a recession and we bet, you did, too. So you had a bigger deficit over the years with the alliance government in your budget movements than we had. As far as the mileage tax is concerned, my view is that foreign hauliers will probably continue to have it much easier than the Swedish business community to escape this tax. You can often have refueled somewhere else. So it will be easier to slip away from the mileage tax. My picture is that this hits hard above all against jobs and growth in the Swedish countryside. The point of the diesel tax reduction is that the assessment is made in every situation. It is possible that this was a completely different situation at times when the reduction was reduced. The Social Democrats apparently thought so, too, because you were in on it. You had exactly the same proposal in your budget motion. You have made a slight increase in the reduction, but at the same time you have raised the diesel tax at the other end. So do you now. You have an overindexation of 2% extra than the usual list. You raise the taxes with one hand and carry out a small reduction with the other hand. That's what you did last year. This time you are raising taxes because you are not proposing any reduction at all. It is regrettable, and it will hit agriculture. In our draft budget we have a reduction. In addition, we have said no to your overindexation. Then you accused us in a previous line shift for planning and thought the market should control. You concluded that you want organic support. It is a strange view of how the market works if you think it should be based on aid. Finally, I would also like to thank Jan-Olof Larsson for this time, and I wish him well in the future.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1292	Madam President, I would like As far as truck traffic is concerned and foreign traffic is concerned, I am absolutely convinced that it depends on who is in government. I'm sure of it. If you happened to end up there, unfortunately, they'd get away with it. Then there will be no collective wage and so on. I do not know any major planning project than the European Union, and I have been sitting on the EU Board and hearing you when you want to have state interventions and more support. We have fought back because we do not want any more subsidies in the agricultural sector. Swedish farmers will certainly do better when they can compete in a free market. I'm absolutely convinced of that. We have good and efficient farmers and good goods. But you don't believe it. You want state aid in various forms, and that is what I call planning. The EU problem today is worse than it was in the Soviet Union. The fact that food exports have increased so much is actually about fish. We bought fish from Norway, processed it in Sweden and exported it further. This was the largest part of the increase in food exports. I'm glad, because that industry is at home in my municipality. But we need to invest in more areas in order to increase exports, but you are cutting the resources by 95 million. When it comes to ecologically, it is about marketing. We will make sure to support it, because Europe is asking for this. You want organic. Support and help are needed, as it is generally the case for small farmers. Thank you for a pleasant debate!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1298	Madam President, I would like I may not have listened properly to what Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson said, but I heard that he said it was worse than in the Soviet Union. Then I wonder what he really means, but maybe we can talk about that later. I would also like to thank Jan-Olof Larsson for many debates here for many years. There was someone who said he had a straight dialogue. I think he's had both a straight and a little noisy dialogue. However, we have stood here and dealt with matters relating to fisheries policy which have had 14 reservations. Then it turned out that we were actually in agreement. It is interesting how democracy works and how we can bump and wet questions and then come to the same conclusion – at least almost. Jan-Olof Larsson seems to have become almost market liberal with a consumer perspective on things. He pays tribute to the labelling of Swedish products. Hear and behold, suddenly people start buying what is marked! Can there be any connection with a market perspective? The same market logic may ultimately apply to exports. We have very nice products. Sweden has never sold the cheapest products, but we have nevertheless stressed that we set quality high. Good products and market logic mean that food also applies. Jan-Olof Larsson is happy to verify what we from the liberal side think about the food strategy – that we share the view that one should have a market and consumer perspective.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1303	Madam President, I would like For me it is a consumer perspective and a market perspective. It is, of course, the consumer who is in this case the market. For eight years in opposition, we have been pursuing this issue of product labelling, including at European level. It has been a bit harsh to bring it about, but it has gone better and better. For example, the issue of antibiotics can be taken as an example. We are the best in Europe at this. It believes hell that if people in Germany, Denmark and Poland find out that we use so little antibiotics in animal husbandry and in our meat products compared to them they buy Swedish. We have all the opportunities in the world to increase meat production and other production in Sweden thanks to our good quality. I always get a little worried when Lars Tysklind claims that we have the same opinions or that we always come to the same conclusion. We may come to the same conclusion at times but on different paths. However, it is always nice to discuss with a resident, because we are about on the same footing. It's been nice years, and I've had nice discussions with you, Lars. We can certainly continue to have good discussions, because we do not live very far apart. Thank you for these years!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1307	Madam President, I would like I just want to say that it is a little worrying that we on the Bohus bench are getting rid of our old man. It is then discovered that it is suddenly another who is the oldest in the context. That in itself can be worrying. Whatever this will lead to, I'll see through self-examination. Thank you, Jan-Olof! I absolutely believe that we will see each other in other contexts.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1309	Madam President, I would like I hope that the President and the House will forgive me for using my two-minute reply time to talk about Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson instead of the basis, given that this is his last debate. After all, Jan-Olof Larsson and I belong to the government base and have presented the fine writing that is being debated today. I too would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Jan-Olof-Olof. When we first met, I was not a politician, but I had invited politicians to a debate in Lysekil during West Sea Week. I brought Jan-Olof Larsson and also Lars Tysklind to look at clay and wildlife in clay at 30 meters depth. I hope I made a difference to you. At least I had a lot of fun. The next time Jan-Olof-Olof and I met, I had actually become a politician, and we both took part in a radio debate. The first thing he said when we spoke was, don't interrupt me! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I wasn't allowed to do that. After this we have had a pretty good and nice atmosphere. We live in each neighbouring municipality as far west as you can come from Stockholm in time. We have therefore travelled a lot of cars, trains, busses and all sorts of things together and have been able to talk a lot with each other. Much has been about our doggies. I hope, therefore, that you now have a lot of time to talk and cuddle with the little white cock. I also think that the phone will ring and that it will sound like this: It's Larsson. Now you're gonna have to control this. I look forward to this. Thank you for everything, Jan-Olof!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1313	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma! Yeah, we've met a lot in these years. You've filled out the suit well in the Environment and Agriculture Committee, and you're a marine biologist almost expert. Sometimes you have to watch your back. You can say almost anything to the others, but it's not about you. Then you'll know what you're saying. It's not so bad that sometimes you have to watch out. We have had many good discussions here in Parliament, on travel and out in other debate forums. Thank you! I'm sure I'll call and tell you where the cabinet should be.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1315	Madam President, I would like As a left-wing party, one can look closely disappointed with social democrats. It's a little too much, on the one hand, and a little bit too much, on the other hand, and a little bit too much, and we'll walk carefully and just sit still in the boat. But with Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson it has never been so. Someone previously linked the word affluent with Jan-Olof Larsson. This is something I would like to very strongly deny. No such connection can be made at all. This is what I have enjoyed with you, Jan-Olof. You're straight in the debate. You say what you think, and you stand for it. I've jumped to and thought a lot of times! Can you be that straight and punchy? I want to be, too. ..................................................... You inspire others, and I am absolutely convinced that you will continue to do so, whatever you move on to. I myself am thinking about how we can continue to have such tense debates in the area of fisheries and agriculture. It will have to be a task for the rest of us to do. Thank you, Jan-Olof-Olof, for this time!
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1318	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens. When I think of Mr Jens, I see him in front of me when we are going to have a debate in this House. After all, he is not the first on the list of speakers but comes running down between the benches. If you ask him what to talk about, he answers: Then he sits down and starts writing a little bit. Then he gives a fire speech that is great. I admire this. Another is allowed to sit and plat a week in advance to figure out what to say and not to say. This and your efforts I will never forget. You're very competent. You have to say that about the members of the smaller parties. Those alone are allowed to handle all the questions that the rest of us – Social Democrats and Moderates – share. When people say that we in Parliament do nothing, I think of the smaller parties that have to tear dog by reading in and know everything. I myself can devote myself to my sea, fishing and so on while others take responsibility for other things. You, too, have inspired me, Jens. You can't go home and complain about tearing yourself to death when you have such a person in front of you. I know how much time you have to spend. Thank you very much.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1322	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report on Category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. As so often when Parliament's Committee on the Environment and Agriculture gathers in the Chamber to discuss, there will be a very lively and committed debate. I really appreciate that. These are important issues that will make all of Sweden live. And this is where we put forward a policy for Sweden to stick together. Today there is a tendency to polarise between city and country. We have begun to talk about this. And I have previously mentioned in the speaker's chair that there is a city standard, where the city often goes out as a winner when you talk about things and the countryside as losers, a little brother who gets a little subsidy. Over the past year, however, something has happened. Rural issues have been raised in the social debate. This year, the countryside has been reflected on prime time on both television and radio. I welcome that. I said it last year and I say it again: Without a strong countryside Sweden stands flat. It is within these industries, which can only be large-scale in rural areas, that our food is produced. It is in rural areas that biofuels are produced today and tomorrow. It is in our fantastic nature that tourism grows and is now exporting and appreciated. And this is where the key to a fossil-free Sweden lies. We often talk about a sustainable society and cities, but a city will not be sustainable without a sustainable rural environment. I believe that the task of politics is to create the conditions for people to live and to reach their full potential. Rural areas are so much more than just forests and fields, but the agricultural industries are a prerequisite for living rural areas. But we must also have a policy that goes hand in hand. We must have schools, which now have Lucia trains, where everyone should be lucia, no matter who you are – or Santa Claus, as I would rather be. It is we as politicians who put politics out so that it becomes a Sweden for everyone. We must have a Sweden that stays together. As far as a coherent Sweden is concerned, there are three things in this area of expenditure that I would like to point out. The first is, of course, the historic investment in broadband that this government has made. The budget for the expenditure area says that SEK 850 million goes to broadband expansion in Sweden. A week ago we received a press release saying that an additional SEK 150 million was being invested. So there will be 1 billion to broadband in Sweden during this programming period with the rural development programme. This creates conditions. It builds Sweden together. This allows you to reach education, school and culture. You can have entrepreneurship and health care. All of this is incredibly important, and it will be done in this way even more in the future. We need this bet. It's a question of justice. This historic effort will increase rural areas and accessibility. Another encouraging initiative, which has already been up to speed during the debate but is not as big in money, is the 20 million to Eldrimner. It is a national resource centre for food crafts that conveys knowledge and provides support and inspiration, both for those who produce the products, i.e. primary producers, and then throughout the chain to those who supply a product and chefs. This strengthens Sweden and the Swedish countryside and gives increased value to the goods, increased know-how and increased professional pride. It is good for nature, animals, farmers, food producers and Sweden. These are the things that make Sweden live. Then I would also like to add to the organic production effort that is included. We already spent a lot of money last year on conversion to organic farming. Now we're spending another 25 million on this. We have already seen that it benefits both large and small entrepreneurs. It also benefits nature. I met an echo farmer and asked why he was an echo farmer. He said, "I want the kids to ride a tractor whenever they want. We must have sustainable agriculture. Organic farming is part of that. We're talking about circular systems and the circular economy. We must have a cycle that holds together. Finally, I must tell you about another initiative which is gratifying, especially for us in the Green Party, which has been running this for a long time. It is the investment in a 3R centre, i.e. a centre that will find alternative methods for animal testing. 3R comes from the English replace, reduce, refine. This means replacing animal testing as much as possible, reducing the number of animals and reducing suffering. This center is going to gather the knowledge that exists and get this out. I think it's going to have a very big effect. I would like to say as Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht – Sweden is a pioneer country in terms of animal welfare, but it is always possible to improve. This is part of that work. It feels great. With these efforts and everything else, I hope that we get a Sweden that stays together, that we not only get a sustainable city and not just a sustainable countryside but a sustainable Sweden.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1336	Madam President, I would like There is a wording in the government's budget bill which, in my opinion, shows that the government is planning far-reaching changes in forestry policy. This text reads as follows: through access to environmental information, participation in decision-making processes and access to justice. I find this wording remarkable, not least given that the government has recently set up an investigation in which one of the tasks is to identify needs and another to analyse whether the public should have the right to review, for example, the Forest Board's decision on forest measures. My question to Emma Nohrén is: Does the government base intend to carry out this without a proper investigation? In this way, we would precede the work that we are doing in our country under normal circumstances, that is to say, to investigate the consequences of a measure – in this case, by the way, a measure that I am opposed to.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1338	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Erlandsson for the question. I can't see that we would intend to go ahead with anything. There are now many processes under way in relation to forestry policy, such as the national forestry programme and a review of the Forest Protection Act, which were discussed earlier. The wording referred to by Mr Erlandsson does not appear in the report we are debating at the moment. But, of course, we need to look at how we use our common resources. There is, of course, ownership at the bottom, but in addition to that there are also laws and rules that we must relate to. I myself am a forest owner and know that there are many laws. I am absolutely convinced that Eskil Erlandsson also knows that you should stick to them. I cannot see why Eskil Erlandsson believes that we would anticipate any of what is already under way and is being investigated.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1340	Madam President, I would like Let me note, then, that one of the articles of the Aarhus Convention, which is often referred to in this context, actually allows for national adaptation. In this case, the government foundation has decided not to use this article. Let's just say. Are you seriously intending to do this, or do you not intend to do it? If you do not mean it, I think you should publish it quickly, because this risks investment in Sweden. There is a risk that forest ownership will become unattractive and that what we live on more or less in large parts of the Swedish countryside will not be the income that it currently is.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1342	Madam President, I would like As member Eskil Erlandsson is aware, we have a lot of forest in Sweden, but very little natural forest and little protected forest. Much of the forest we have today is young. Even if it grows so it creaks there is much that is not in fellable condition. There are therefore many natural forests that are now being creaked on. We from the Green Party think it is incredibly important that we get protection from this and that the laws and rules that apply to this are complied with. We must have old forests left. We need biotopes for the endangered animal species. A review of the Forest Protection Act is now under way and the national forest programme is under way. These processes are going on, and that's great. We have our common resource: forests and biodiversity. As a forest owner, they have a responsibility to ensure that it is preserved.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1344	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the speech by Emma Nohrén. I would like to address the debate on the interpretation of the Aarhus Convention. First of all, I would like to point out a direct error. It is not that we have very little protected area in Sweden. Over 31 percent of the forest land can be considered protected. Just follow the statistics of the Swedish Forest Board. This applies both to the volunteer and to the legislator, for example, that we should not fell in forest impressions, which includes the mountain forest. The government is happy to talk about the green bioeconomy and so on. But look at the things that move. What does it look like for you as a forest owner when making long-term decisions? Or what does it look like for the forest industry when it is going to make long-term decisions in Sweden? During this year more than 50 fellings have so far been stopped in Sweden due to the Species Protection Regulation. This corresponds to approximately 500 hectares with an equivalent value of approximately SEK 100 000 in the value of fellings per hectare. There are already 500 million in the system where Swedish foresters cannot harvest their forests and get their money. We have logging reports that are public. We have key biotopes where there are systems where landowners do not receive financial compensation for the infringement they are actually exposed to. At the same time, the government wants to emphasise that it wants to increase outdoor life. The aim is to increase the rights of environmental organisations and the possibility of restricting forestry. How do you get it together with the green bioeconomy?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1348	Madam President, I would like First of all, when it comes to how much forest is protected, it depends entirely on how you count. If you bring forest that can't be harvested, it'll be far away from the numbers you say. But only 4% of the production forest is protected, or for other reasons protected. As far as I'm concerned, it's less than 4% that's protected. If we are to reach the Nagoya Protocol that we should have 17% of our land area protected, we have a long way to go. It is sad for those forest owners who have been denied their fellings that they might have planned to do. There I see that in the future we must ensure that we update the key biotop inventory – I think the latest one is made in the 90s – so that you as a forest owner know what you have on your land. But we have a common responsibility for the survival of our species and the functioning of biodiversity. We have some biotopes that are so threatened. A certain type of forest brings with it a lot of species. It is therefore important that we have some rules and laws that go beyond that. In these cases, we have the Species Protection Regulation so that we can have protection for the species that need it.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1351	Madam President, I would like I know we have had this debate before. I have debated with the former Minister for the Environment, Åsa Romson, whether we have the area we have or not. You still have to look at what the legislation says. It is very good that Emma Nohrén mentions the Nagoya Protocol. It is sometimes expressed as an opinion that we now have a responsibility and must protect so much area. If you just count state reserves, we're at 4%. But then you should add the voluntary measures, the conservation measures that all forest owners have to do. In addition, the empires are added. Then you will very well get over 30%. You can pass the Nagoya protocol today. Furthermore, the Nagoya Protocol is not in any way binding, but is still a voluntary agreement. We in Sweden are well ahead. I will return to the first question, or actually the final one. It is about being able to combine the green bioeconomy, if that expression is to be used. Nevertheless, it is based on the need to be able to make long-term investments. I think Norway is a pretty good example. There you cannot deliver timber to support your industries. As a result, they shut down pulp mills and production. Forest owners are finally forced to export to Sweden, Värmland or similar areas, and are paid much less. Is this the development we should have in Sweden? Or should we have a development in which we can respect ownership and the right to use and give forest owners the opportunities and freedom under responsibility that have characterized Swedish forestry policy for at least 50-60 years?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1355	Madam President, I would like We have enormous challenges ahead of us when it comes to putting a climate in balance if we are to fall below the two-degree target. That is something that I think everyone in this House is very aware of. The forest will have a very important part to play in this. We in Sweden have a lot of forest and can therefore get away quite well if we use it correctly. But we cannot take the climate threat as a pretext for unsustainable forestry. We must have a sustainable solution to the other problems as well. It has to be sustainable. We must have sustainable use of the forest. We must also ensure that we do not do so blindly, do not see where we are going and create a lot of other environmental problems along the way. This involves, for example, removing biotopes and eradicating animals. All of a sudden they disappear, and the animals that would exist do not exist. Some may feel that you can take the right to do so because it is so important. I don't think so. All species have their own value. It's so important. One environmental objective must not be against the others, but we must achieve all the environmental objectives. There, sustainable forestry is something that is incredibly important. I hope everyone stands up for that.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1359	Madam President, I would like First, I have two comments. We from the Liberals also think that this development of broadband is very important. That is why we are adding another 100 million. That is a high priority. When it comes to organic production, one can always discuss back and forth whether one is for or against it. I hope I have made it clear that this is not a political issue. Emma Nohrén can confirm that somehow. Nevertheless, the strongest driver for organic production must be the existence of a strong consumer demand for organic products. Madam President, I would like Now there has been quite a lot of discussion about forests here. That's really why I asked for a line. Nevertheless, we can see that both the state and the forest industry have a far-reaching responsibility for protecting forest ecosystem services. I share Emma Nohrén's view that we must preserve biodiversity also linked to the climate issue. We get much more robust ecosystems, and we don't know exactly what happens if we start eradicating things in the systems. It's very important. It is a matter of safeguarding both nature conservation and environmental considerations, and this is also a matter of ordinary forestry. It's not just about us protecting areas. Of course, forestry must also be sustainable. The Forest Protection Act is now under investigation. We are talking about forest programmes, and so on. Our starting point for the Liberals is to equate the goals: the production target and the environmental objective. That's supposed to be the starting point. Is that the view that Emma Nohrén and the Green Party still have?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1365	Madam President, I would like I have to thank Lars Tysklind for the question. I want to start by saying that I'm glad you're putting it. I have been a little worried about where you stand in forestry policy this year, given that you have cut so terribly much in the budget on this in our proposal. It is good that at least your question shows that there is still a strong interest in the forest and to protect it. Of course, we cannot have a forest that just stands. Some forests should just stand and stand. We're supposed to have production, but it's supposed to be sustainable. This is the foundation of Swedish forestry policy and the basis of the model. Production and the environment must have the same weight. What we have seen is that the environment may have had to iron a little, especially when we have so many young stocks. It grows so creaks, but there is not so much that can be harvested and harvested. We will then see that the old forests that have existed are being creaked, and then we need to protect them and ensure that we can achieve sustainable forestry on the others. I usually use my own forests with a continuity practice. It takes time to reset. More driving is needed in the forest, which can be seen as a disadvantage. But we also get another biodiversity in the forest and another outlet. I believe that we must have a sustainable yield from sustainable forestry, and I can see that there are an incredible amount of disadvantages in the practice of horticulture, which we have today. This applies not only to how to remove forests but also how it affects hydrography, i.e. water's path, and so on. Of course it should be production from the forest, but it should be done in a sustainable way.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1369	Madam President, I would like I think we are a little bit on the same line; at least that sounds like it. Nor do I think that we should get caught up in a single method of farming. Trakthyggesbruk can be relatively right at one time, while continuity forestry is right at another time. We have seen that profitability can be seen in both methods at different times. I don't think you should see this so black or white. The discussion that also came up in the Environmental Objectives Committee on the issue of climate change concerned the role of forests as substitution. If we are to remove the fossil footprint, the forest will be able to play an important role. It covers everything from renewable materials and chemical products to other products. We know about our Bohuslän chemical industry. They want molecules from the forest – rather than from the oil really. There are textiles and, of course, the energy production of biofuels and such. There are therefore many trade-offs that need to be made. I think it is gratifying that Emma Nohrén also says that she stands by the fact that there should be two equal goals – production and the environment. Then we may not be able to agree on what that means here and now. However, the fact that we already have the starting point that there must be two objectives and a good balance between these two is nevertheless a good start.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1372	Madam President, I would like It certainly is! As I said before, just because we have a threat to tackle cannot be at the expense of other environmental objectives. We now see that we have incredible opportunities to remove raw material from the forest and use the green molecule and simply replace the old fossil molecule. It is about many places, just as Lars Tysklind says – everything from clothing, shoes and fuel to construction we can replace with forest. But we can't be stupid while we do it. We have to do it in a smart and sustainable way, and that is where I think it is incredibly important that we think ahead so that we do nothing stupid and hand over some other debt to our children and grandchildren. I think we can agree on this too.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1375	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Nohrén, for your speech. There was much in it that was worth thinking about. I listened particularly when you described the conflict between town and country, and I think there is a lot in what you mentioned there. This is a contradiction that we have seen grow. The starting point is often a little strange in this discussion. I read an interesting column of Katrine Marçal the other day, which is a leftist debater which I may not always agree with. But here she had an interesting lookout where she wrote that when the gap between town and country grows, we don't have to go out in the country and ask people: Why are you different? Instead, stay in the city and ask: Why are you different? I think this is worth thinking about. It is often the case in the debates that the starting point is that the city is the norm. It is the conditions that apply and the requirements of the city that affect the countryside. I think we need to learn to think differently. Unfortunately, this is often the case in politics too. I tried to reflect this in my speech: it is easy to make demands if you are in the big city and do not see what the conditions are and what is needed to produce in rural areas. Of course, it is easy to make demands on others when you do not have to pay yourself. It costs you nothing to make demands on others. I think that a market perspective is quite good and that the starting point should be that anyone who wants to make demands should also pay. The consumer should therefore pay for the added value of organic production, for example. It is up to the consumer to pay. It's not politics that should pay. I'm a little curious to hear how Emma Nohrén is reasoning here. Is it not reasonable to try to be more educational and to allow consumers to pay for this rather than to send the money through the tax, through the state and politics?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1380	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler! These are important questions you ask when it comes to what you can order from the city of the countryside. I certainly hope that this is not the case, but I want it to be a dynamic approach. The Moderates have tried to reduce taxes in absurdity for eight years, and I don't think the countryside flourished so much at that time. We heard earlier that a lot of dairy farmers had to close down already then. It disappeared a lot of agricultural land, which is not used. So I'm not quite sure if your way is preferable. The good things have to be started. What we had in the budget last year with ecological conversion aid costs little money. There is sometimes a cost in changing. Many goods are also cheap because they do not pay their costs. You use environmental services that you don't pay for. We had Overshoot Day, as it is called, sometime in August. Thus, the world has exhausted its resources for the year. What we are living on now in December is something we are borrowing from next year. In midsummer we purified the water we used last year. It takes a year and a half to clean all the water you've used. I do not think cheap production is so cheap. Get a pair of jeans! There are 16 000 litres of water in them during production until they reach the consumer. All this water will be cleansed and come back. If sustainable production is made and the costs incurred along the way are paid, it will cost the consumer more. But it is with those who take the cheap shortcut and do not pay their costs that the error lies. That's why it's cheap.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1384	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Nohrén, for your answer! My conviction is that when we talk about sustainability, it is a concept that consists of three parts. It is, of course, the environment, which is what we are discussing quite a lot here and now. But it is also about the economy and the social aspects. They are connected, and it is usually distorted if you place too much emphasis on one part and not on the others – if you do not take all three parts into account. My point with my speech earlier was that if we make tough and far-reaching demands in Sweden that are different from the rest of the world, it is often to bite yourself in the tail. What happens then is that Swedish operations are being shut down. It affects the economy, we get less growth and less money in taxes and other things. It hits the social part because people become unemployed and have less money to move with, and it also creates other problems. We know that. In the end, there will also be problems for the environment. When we export our environmental impact, which is what we actually do when production takes place elsewhere instead, we have achieved nothing. Rather, it has become a deterioration because our Swedish industry is usually much better in terms of the environment than it is in many other countries. I think it is a problem that the government tends to have a list where it focuses very much on the environment and does not weigh the other aspects sufficiently. I believe that this could lead to problems in the future. There has been talk of the forest here, and I was actually going to talk a lot about this one too. Now there was not much about it, but I would still like to ask a question: what will be the effects of the deteriorating opportunities for active forest management that forest owners think they will have in relation to environmental objectives specifically? What does Emma Nohrén think?
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1389	Madam President, I would like Now I do not really know what it is you refer to that means that we get reduced production of the forest, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, but I suppose you refer to that there are some forest owners who have not been able to harvest their forest. I see you're nodding. I understand that this is a problem. You think you're going to get an income from your forest, and then it turns out that there are obstacles – such as protected species or something. After all, we have it so that we can make voluntary provisions and get money for it. I also think that we need to move forward with a new key biotop inventory, so that as a forest owner you actually know what you have. That it should be done is something the government should take to heart. You shouldn't find new species just like that either, but it's good for a forest owner to know what there is. However, it is important that we have forestry that takes advantage of and supports all environmental objectives. We can't put one in front of another. We also have other problems with forestry than that we must not fell; we have problems with water runoff, forest roads and fragmented land areas. We need to take a holistic approach. We now have a national forestry programme in place, and there is a review of the Forest Protection Act. I hope and believe that this will be good. There are very many wise minds who are involved in working, so I have great hope that we will be able to use the green atom and the green energy forward in time and avoid the fossil. But it should not be at the expense of other values.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1392	Madam President, I would like I would like to speak with Emma Nohrén about broadband. I thought it was good that you brought it up, Emma, because just as you say it is incredibly important for many people that there is broadband out there where we live, live and work. I think you have said that your plan is for 90% to have broadband within a few years, and you added a certain amount of money. My question, however, is: do you think that will be enough? My image after being out among municipalities and people is that there is a huge amount of effort to be made forward. So that is my first question.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1394	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Oscarsson for the question. I hope and believe that this will go a long way. Already, aid has already been overexploited three times over, and we now hope that the billion it is actually about in the course of the programme will be enough to achieve the objectives – probably by far. What we also have now is that we should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. The purpose of the support is for it to work in areas in Sweden where the commercial forces are not enough, and it is in rural and small villages. We now see that broadband investigations are going on everywhere, but that there is also a great deal of inequality when it comes to where in the country this has come a long way. I think Gotland was the best; there you have some kind of village team structure that has made it fast. We are doing, in fact, just this moment, at my house and pulling cables through the house in order to hopefully press the button before Christmas Eve. This is incredibly important, and according to the calculations I have heard, it will be enough to reach the 90% target. I also hope that we will raise the target and also reach a new target, because this is important. Because you're falling behind. If you are going to be an active part of society today, it is not possible to work, live or live without broadband.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1398	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Nohrén for his reply. I find this interesting to discuss, because I am worried. As I said, I notice when I'm out among people that you're not in the game without broadband. I'm also thinking a little bit about the government owning over 30 percent of Telia. Many people have an alternative before they get broadband dug into their property, but in fact 22 500 have been lost and will get rid of their broadband via ADSL last year and year. You can listen to some farmers who are completely dependent on the availability of broadband to the animal stables. It's so complicated nowadays; it's robots here and other things there, and it should be lined in different ways – and without broadband it doesn't work. Therefore, I am very concerned when I find that there are cuts and that there are no alternatives. You get to stand here as a government representative, Emma Nohrén, and I want to ask you if the government is talking to Telia. It is worrying that the link is cut before there are alternatives, i.e. before digging on your property and so on. This is incredibly important, so that's my question to you.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1401	Madam President, I would like I am glad that Mr Oscarsson thinks so highly of me. However, I am not a government representative, but I can act as a representative of the government base. I have also been out to meet those who have got the thread cut and are also personally affected by this. This applies not only to individual people, but also to activities in the country. After all, we have a lot of tourist companies run in the form of one-man companies or small businesses. It's very shaky to get started, and if you don't have broadband when you have, for example, a conference activity, you also get no bookings. Perhaps you have invested in being far away from honor and honesty, so to speak, precisely to get those customers. This is incredibly worrying, and I can only say that I hope that with this money we can ensure that broadband is rolled out as quickly as possible so that this situation does not arise. However, if there is any dialogue with Telia or not, I dare not say anything about it, but I can also hope for it.
i-18469da5cd3b1a1d-1404	Madam President, I would like We are debating Sweden's budget for 2017, and this applies to Category 23. A large part of the expenditure area concerns agriculture and forestry, which are two important industries. Agriculture produces the food we eat, and from the forest we get a variety of products – paper, timber, planks and so on. However, this production must be carried out properly. As far as food is concerned, we in the Left Party have long worked for Sweden to have sustainable food production. We left a motion in the Swedish Parliament that we called Sweden – the sustainable food country, and we think that this budget takes steps in the right direction. Among other things, steps are being taken in the right direction to reduce climate-related emissions from the food we consume. These are not small emissions, but emissions that have about the same climate impact as Sweden's 4.5 million passenger cars. It is also about discharges into the Baltic Sea and our watercourses that cause eutrophication to pick up, and we know that agriculture is the main source of eutrophication. From the Left side, we also believe that Sweden, with the help of a conscious strategy for sustainable food production, can become the leader in the production of sustainable food. We already see that there are companies that produce, for example, milk, cream and ice cream with raw materials directly from the plant world. It is companies that are growing, and it is exporting to other countries. For example, the budget report we are now debating mentions the Formas programme Sustainable Food Production, which covers SEK 50 million over five years. This programme is about finding new, smart, sustainable food. Also mentioned is Vinnova's competition in new sustainable foods, which has been going on during the autumn, where various climate-smart, protein-rich foods have competed against each other. The aim is to find new smart foods that can replace meat, as this can reduce emissions. Here gray pea burgers have competed against mushroom proteins and other vegetable proteins. Finally, lupine cream won with an emperor hat. Lupins are an example of Swedish legumes. I think this is an example of how we in Sweden can produce more food, and we can do it with Swedish raw materials. I also think it is a good thing that in this report we are proposing an extra SEK 25 million in direct support for organic food. It is sad that several of the bourgeois parties reject this initiative. We also invest more money in Eldrimner, which is a local food trade business. Even there you are creative and find new sustainable food solutions. We also hope, in addition to what is mentioned in this report, that many of the issues that we in the Left Party have been pursuing will be dealt with by the food strategy that I must admit we have waited far too long for. Now, however, I have heard that it is in progress, and we hope that sustainable food will be in focus. I mentioned the forest earlier. It is very good that there is an allocation – which we raised last year – in this report, which deals with efforts for forestry. It's about more money to protect the forest. In particular, private forest owners can conclude conservation agreements for forest land with high natural values and, nowadays, for forest land with high social values. I think it is important that we look at both aspects of sustainable forest management, both what is important for ecology and what is important for people who spend a lot of time in the forest and who think that it can be a good idea to protect that forest better. It is sad that all the bourgeois parties reject this extra effort and propose reductions of as much as SEK 100 million. We simply cannot afford that if we are to achieve our environmental objectives, which are about having living forests, preserving species and so on. I am very pleased that with this budget, and precisely Category 23, we are getting a permanent effort to reduce and replace animal experiments with the establishment of a so-called 3R centre. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate that 3R stands for replacement, reduce and refine, which is English to replace animal testing, to reduce animal testing and to refine animal testing. There is a lot of exciting research in Sweden and other parts of the world, where alternatives to animal experiments are found. However, what is needed is a unit that coordinates these activities and ensures that this new, smart research benefits as much as possible. This is why it is important for this 3R centre to reduce animal testing. This is also something that we in the Left Party have driven very hard in these budgetary negotiations. Finally, I have been chairman of the Monitoring and Evaluation Group of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture this year. We have evaluated how well the government has reported how the investments in the budget have been made. We have been assisted in this work by investigator Joakim Skotheim and our rapporteur Anna-Anna-Lena Kileus. A unanimous committee notes that there have been some improvements regarding the government's accounting of how to manage budgetary resources. However, we still believe that there is some potential for improvement, in particular as regards the extent to which the actions lead to the actual achievement of the objectives set in this area. This is not always the case, and that is why we will continue to evaluate the government's accounts. Otherwise, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
