i-f2b428ebe888f094-0	Madam President, I would like Annika Qarlsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the application of the Community representation by the Finnish Immigration Service does not discriminate against those who find jobs through public employment sites other than the Swedish Public Employment Service. She has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Swedish authorities do not apply the Community representation to a greater extent than is necessary on the basis of the principle of loyalty. Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me whether I intend to work for the government to open up more ways of looking for work than through the Public Employment Service. I have chosen to answer these questions jointly. As a minister, I cannot affect the application of the legislation in force by the Swedish authorities. Nor can I intervene in or otherwise try to influence the way an authority or court deals with individual cases. This is evident from the form of government. The Union's representative is a principle based on a resolution adopted by the EU Heads of State or Government in 1994. It means that EU citizens and third-country nationals residing in the EU should take precedence over job vacancies. The principle has subsequently been confirmed on several occasions, including in the context of EU enlargement in 2004. It is true that the Union's representation is not legally binding. However, the so-called principle of loyalty, which means that the Member States should not take any measures that jeopardise the objectives of the Treaty, still applies. Labour immigration rules were introduced by the previous government. It was then assessed that the Union's representatives require EU/EEA/Switzerland residents to become aware of vacancies in the Swedish labour market. Only then will the employer be free to recruit from third countries. A work permit may therefore only be granted if the recruitment procedure is consistent with Sweden's commitments within the European Union. In the preparatory work for the present provision, it is stated that a vacancy must have been advertised in such a way that persons in Sweden, the rest of the EU/EEA and Switzerland have had the opportunity to apply for the vacancy. It is clear from the same preparatory work that the employer can report the vacant position to the Employment Service for advertising but that there is nothing to prevent the employer from choosing other recruitment methods. The crucial point is that it is clear in the case that the Union's representative has been respected. I see no reason to make a different assessment. Against this background, I do not see any reason at present to take further action on this issue either.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-6	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. It is interesting that we actually share opinions on large parts of the answer. But the answer is also very remarkable, as we are apparently able to come to completely different conclusions with the same views. First, the Minister states that he cannot and must not influence the authorities in individual cases. I fully agree with that. It's not ministerial rule we want, either of us. What the Minister chooses not to mention in his reply, in the same chapter, is that, on the other hand, he, as a minister, has the opportunity with me as a legislator to change the basic conditions, i.e. change the law, which would have an impact in the desired direction in future individual cases. Then I come to the second point on which I agree with the Minister. The Minister says in his reply that it is stated in the preliminary work that you can but do not have to report the vacancy to AF and that there is nothing in the preliminary work that prevents the employer from choosing other recruitment methods. We are therefore in agreement with regard to the form of government and with regard to the pre-drafting of the provision in question. That's good, really good. However, when the Minister lands in the conclusion that, in view of this, he sees no reason at the moment to take any further action, I can conclude that we do not agree. Does the Minister not mean anything by what he said in his reply to me that he agrees that employers can choose other means of recruitment, as was intended by the legislation in relation to the provision in question? Is that just the confession of lips? Or is it the case that the outcome is what the Minister really wants, according to how the Social Democrats voted when we introduced labour immigration? If we both stand behind the preparatory work that exists but then it is not applied, it is up to us to actually change the law. This interpellation debate is about where the job was advertised and whether the Community representation has been observed or not. Therefore, it is interesting to briefly describe Linkedin. Linkedin is a web service dedicated to creating meeting places for job seekers and businesses. They're doing pretty well. It is the 18th most visited site in the world. The seat bank located under the European Job Seeker Portal is 839 or 855 in terms of number of visits. It's interesting in comparison to Linkedin's 18th place. In the judgment, the Migration Court refers to the fact that it is not possible to assess whether the requirement for advertising is fulfilled, despite the fact that there are many more employers who are connected to Linkedin and that there are multiple users who are connected to Linkedin, compared to EURES, the European portal where AF is included. If it is a weighty argument that there should be many who can see that a job is announced for the Community's representation to be satisfied, it should probably be AF and job via the P latsbanken which had been disqualified and not Linkedin. My first question is whether the Minister means anything by his answer that he supports the choice of other recruitment methods. Then I have a supplementary question. The application of the law does not follow the preparatory work. Alternative services are much more widely distributed. And this has absurd consequences for people who have hijacked a life here. What else is required for the Minister to take further action?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-14	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson for the answer to my interpellation. Like Annika Qarlsson, I can agree with some argumentation, but I do not think it is a sufficient answer to the questions themselves in our interpellations. On the other hand, it was a very clear statement that the Minister is not going to do anything about the problem that I am highlighting and what my colleague Annika Qarlsson is highlighting. Sweden has major challenges in terms of integration and migration. Too many people are outside the labour market. And the time of establishment is alarmingly long. It was also before the refugee crisis that we have seen since autumn 2015. There are good examples, however, where we see people entering the labour market quickly. This applies to those who have fled here, but perhaps above all those who have come here as students or as labour immigrants. The example that has been highlighted here and that was very noticed in the media is Syed Latif from Bangladesh. This applies to a person who has studied for four years at a university, preferably in Östersund. After that, he has applied for a job. And he's got a job. It is a job he has had for almost two years before it was decided that he should be expelled, because the position was advertised not through the Employment Service but via Linkedin. And it is not accepted by the Swedish authorities, as it is not proven that everyone across the EU, the EEA and Switzerland has been able to access the advertisement for the advertised service. It is about a professional network that has 2 million users only here in Sweden and clearly many more if you add the EU, the EEA and Switzerland. It has well over 400 million users worldwide. So it is the world's largest professional network. Yesterday it was also sold for SEK 216 billion. That should indicate that it has some relevance and that there is some interest. However, our authorities believe that the network's services do not reach our citizens. Given the answer to the interpellation, the Minister for Migration must also believe that the network does not reach out. In addition, the burden of proof is placed on whether the advertising has reached out to citizens or not on the individual, in this case on Syed Latif. The defense of the Migration Court is that this is a question of proof. They say, "This is a question of proof. He'll have to show that this comes to the attention of enough people. ..................................................... Is it a reasonable requirement to place on a job seeker who has obtained a job? Madam President, I would like The Minister states in his reply that there are EU resolutions. There are preparatory work where it is established that vacant posts will be advertised so that persons within the EEA, the EU and Switzerland will have the opportunity to apply for the position. It is also true, as the Minister says in her reply and as Annika Qarlsson mentioned, that the position can be reported to the Public Employment Service. But there is nothing to prevent the employer from using and choosing other recruitment methods. This should mean that it is perfectly possible for the employer to use Linkedin, for example, if you prefer. Nevertheless, the Minister and the Swedish Government intend to remain passive and paralysed, without wishing to act. Is it that way? If so, that would be regrettable. It would be interesting to hear the minister develop exactly how he and the government reason on these issues. I find it difficult to understand the logic and the reasonableness of what has now happened and of the Minister's conclusion in the answer.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-24	Madam President, I would like I do not work day-to-day specifically on labour market and migration issues. But as a fellow human being, a citizen and an elected representative, I can only react to the expulsion of Syed Latif. Latif took its own initiative and responsibility to enter the Swedish labour market. He came here as a student, learned Swedish and got a job in Malmö. He was involved in the situation of new arrivals when Sweden was hugely dependent on non-profit forces. He started a language café in Skurup – in my neighborhood. He paid taxes and contributed to a better society. In spite of this, he did not receive continued work and residence permits. Madam President, I would like It is perfectly understandable that the expulsion of Latif, on the grounds that he has applied for his job via the wrong website, has caused strong reactions. It is also understandable that Morgan Johansson emphasises in his reply that as the Minister responsible, he cannot affect the application of current legislation by Swedish authorities. What I do not understand is that the Minister for Migration does not seem to see what signals are being sent when the government is only silent, when the government cannot forcefully charge that personal responsibility and own initiatives are rewarded in this country. Perhaps you could take the lead in the European circle for a discussion on acceptance of new ways of looking for work. Linkedin is, as we have heard in the debate, after all the world's 17th most visited website. The traffic and scope of the various websites have been clearly demonstrated in Annika Qarlsson's interpellation. In pursuit of Europe's lowest unemployment, you could signal that efforts play a role in our country and that you should do what you can to ensure that the system does not take precedence over individual people. Madam President, I would like I believe that one of the reasons why this case is giving rise to strong reactions is that people so dearly want the integration of our country to work. They want people who come here to contribute to our common good, contribute to Sweden's common prosperity and that people should be allowed to take their own initiatives to secure their own future and that country's future. Surely the Minister for Migration must have concrete ideas on how cases like Latifs can be avoided in the future.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-31	Madam President, I would like This question is not about Linkedin or Arbetsförmedlingen. This issue concerns the representation of the Union, that is to say the principle that all EU citizens must have had the opportunity to apply for the post before it can be communicated to someone else. This is not news – not for me, nor for the Members, nor for Sweden as an EU member. The principle already existed before we entered the European Union. It came in 1994, precisely in connection with our accession to the European Union. This principle has applied throughout the period that Sweden has been a member of the European Union. It has been in force under Social Democratic governments, and it applied for all eight years with the bourgeois government. It was even the bourgeois government that clarified that the representation of the Union was achieved by advertising through the Employment Service. The bourgeois made it clear in the 2008 bill where you drew up the rules for labour immigration. I can read aloud from the 2007/08 bill, which I am now showing to the House. It is signed by Fredrik Reinfeldt and Tobias Billström. This is what it says:recruitment can be started by the employer reporting the vacancy to the Employment Service for advertising. When a vacancy is advertised in the Employment Service's seat bank, it also becomes visible in the European online site portal EURES, making the service available to citizens of the rest of the EU/EEA and Switzerland. – – – If these measures are taken, the Finnish Immigration Service should typically be able to assess whether the Community representative has been respected. However, there is nothing to prevent the employer from choosing other recruitment measures. ..................................................... It was you who pointed out the Employment Service as the way in which the service could be made available and informed throughout the EU. For it is not enough for many to read about the ministry. The requirement is that everyone in the EU, the EEA and Switzerland should have had the opportunity to see the place advertised. Against this background, the findings of the Court and the Migration Board are not unreasonable. For the Union's representation to be achieved, it must be demonstrated that recruitment to the post has been carried out in such a way that everyone has been able to see it. That is what the Court of Justice and the Migration Board have come up with. You have to be able to guarantee it. Private agencies can't do that. I cannot rule out that there could be other ways in which the service could be advertised. But no other such way has been tried. I believe that, if the discussion is to be continued, you must ask those who criticise the order why you suddenly think that the employer should not have to follow the rules that you drew up or, so to speak, is the father of. I also think there is a question of principle: what is it really difficult for an employer to advertise also via EURES and the Employment Service? EURES is the EU's seat bank. What prevents employers from doing so too? You can use a thousand different recruitment methods. But what's so hard about using those two? There's nothing to stop it, is there? Sometimes I wonder why one had to use a way, which against this background, does not achieve the legal conditions. Of course, we fully agree with everyone who says that personal responsibility and taking initiatives of our own should be rewarded. However, we must also be able to demand from employers that they comply with existing regulations.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-39	Madam President, I would like It is exciting to debate with Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson on these very issues. It is an area where the Alliance pushed through and got legislation in place. It would not have happened if there had not been a change of government in 2006. As the Minister rightly points out, we were the ones who carried this out and have laid down the rules that exist. In this regard, I have said nothing else. What I do, on the other hand, want and have a drive is to look at how it has worked. What are the unreasonable consequences, and if so, what can be done about it? On this issue, it is such a clear part which nevertheless becomes personified when it comes to individuals, even if it is not individual cases that we stand and discuss in this House. Here we are discussing principles and laws. But the way to look for work and then have the right to stay in Sweden as a labour immigrants is now limited. But it really isn't, and that's what gets so incredibly strange somewhere. The principle laid down still opens up the possibility of seeking work or recruiting in other ways. What then makes it difficult and difficult is to lead this in evidence. So how can you prove that something has been visible to enough people? In that part I can see that there is still a big difference when it comes to the flow on the sites where Arbetsförmedlingen is located compared to the site where Linkedin is located. If you look at the flow, it would be obvious that it is the Linkedin that you would shift to because it is the one that reaches so many. With regard to the primacy of those belonging to the European Community, Linkedin would be a rather natural part rather than following others. The Minister nevertheless supports the possibility for employers to recruit in other ways. Then it becomes a little strange that he then notes that it does not work and that the outcome is not that way. The Minister then says that he does not intend to take any action because he does not think it is necessary. This connection is not entirely logical. There, I still lack answers as to whether he believes that this is not, as it were, his legislation but that it is the Alliance's legislation or that it is a matter of principle and that this should actually be accessible to a larger community and that one should be able to see advertisements and look for jobs. You can then think about the outcome, that Syed had to leave the country and go home. Somewhere there is a suspicion about this that goes back to what we did when the legislation was adopted in 2007/ 08. Is that the desired outcome that the Minister is now seeing, and is that why he is not prepared to take any action? Or are there other reasons?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-47	Madam President, I would like What happens over the years is development. This legislation on labour migration was adopted on the basis of proposals from the Alliance government in the first few years. A lot has happened since then. It's been almost ten years. We know that in terms of the IT page, in terms of social media and in terms of online networks, a lot has happened. But it feels as if the government and the minister are out of phase over time and that technological developments have run past both the government as a whole and the Minister for Migration. It is not that I believe that the Minister should rule in detail or engage in ministerial government. On the other hand, both the government and the parliament have the opportunity to adjust and correct legislation and regulations that have undesirable consequences. We can be honest about saying that whether it is an alliance government or a social democratic government that has a good intention with legislation, there may be some parts that need to be adjusted in order for everything to be correct. When we realise that there are totally obscure consequences of certain elements, perhaps because the authorities and the Government of Sweden do not keep up with developments, it is quite possible, quite reasonable and in many cases absolutely necessary that a government actually follows in time. If you google and look at Linkedin, the Migration Agency and Arbetsförmedlingen have their own profiles there, because it is such an important and large site. Linkedin has, as Annika Qarlsson has also mentioned, more users registered than both Arbetsförmedlingen and the European site. In fact, when we discussed introducing the legislation on labour immigration that we now have, the Alliance and the Green Party agreed on this issue because we think it is good that people can migrate, move across borders and work. We want people who move to work. But we also know that there was a great deal of opposition in the Left Party Parliament, from the Social Democrats and the Minister for Migration and from the Social Democratic LO unions, which was very clear that this was not something they wanted. Now they have also received good support from the Swedish Democrats, who do not like labour immigration either. The question is how things stand in the government, between the Green Party and the Social Democrats, on issues relating to labour immigration legislation. Given the response I have received to the interpellation from the Minister for Migration, I find it difficult once again to see how it could be ministerial government to adjust things that do not work, if you have that will. Does the Minister of Migration not have the will? Is the opinion of the Social Democrats at the time of the introduction of the legislation that labour immigration is not a good thing until all LO members have a job? Is it ideology, politics and unions that govern? Or what is the reason for the Minister for Migration's opposition to following in time and following developments and actually making the necessary adjustments, so that Sweden is a modern country that follows in time?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-54	Madam President, I would like Yes, Linkedin is a relatively new tool. But it's getting more important and more important. Then we must also dare to look at the consequences of the fact that this website is not, as it were, approved, even though it reaches so many citizens in the world. I only wish the Minister for Migration could say that this is worth taking action for. Unemployment among foreign born people is high in our country. Then we must highlight more good examples and not oppose those that exist.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-56	Madam President, I would like As I said, these are your rules. It was you who put forward proposals on this legislation and set up the regulatory framework. I have said today that the interpretation of the acquis is not unreasonable in view of the appearance of the Union's representative. In some way, it is perhaps typical of Moderates, Center Partyists and Christian Democrats that when they have lost the election, employers should suddenly not follow the rules that you yourselves have been setting up. I find that odd. It has been eight years, but the Union's representation has not changed. It's still there. It must be possible to demonstrate that a service has been announced throughout the EU. That is what you wrote in your bill, and that is how the representative of the Union is designed. It's hard to get away with it. It is not enough that many have been able to see the ad. You have to make sure everyone has had the chance to see the ad. These are the criteria to be measured against. I asked you a question earlier. Now that we know the outcome, what is so difficult for the country's employers when it comes to calling out a service in such a way that they live up to the rules? What prevents them from posting a service on the Employment Service's website, so that it is included throughout the EURES system? Does it cost money? Are there any insurmountable thresholds? There is nothing to prevent them also using Linkedin or any other possible website or other? However, the Court of Justice has said that the process under consideration was not sufficient to live up to the Union's representation in accordance with the rules that you were involved in setting up. Then there is a wider discussion about the view of labour immigration. I think it is extremely important that we now concentrate on ensuring that all the people who are already in Sweden as asylum seekers – we received 160 000 people last year – enter the labour market. It will be a very difficult and big challenge for us. It is true that we have quite a good boost in the labour market right now – over 100 000 new jobs since this government took office and very high growth rates, which means that we have good prospects – but I still think this is extremely important. As far as the labour immigration system is concerned, you are right if you think I see major problems with it. I do, but maybe not the way you think. The big problems I think are that it has been far too bad at ensuring that those who come here as labour immigrants also have good working conditions. The old government didn't care about that. It did not even bother to ensure that agreements and promises made abroad would be legally binding here in Sweden when they came here. We have an investigation that's watching now, because that's the way it has to be. You didn't want to do that then. Nor did you care to look at controls or sanctions against employers who exploit people who are often in a rather difficult and weak situation. We have seen many startling examples of this. When we look at the question of labour immigration, we shall ask ourselves these questions. How do we ensure that promises made abroad become legally binding? How do we ensure that controls and sanctions are improved so that you do not have to work for 10 SEK an hour and live in a basement? We have just seen that kind of exploitation. Now we have an investigation looking at this, the labour immigration investigation. It will be ready in September, and I look forward to it. That is what I would like to focus the rest of this term of office on when it comes to labour immigration – to ensure that conditions are better for those who work.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-67	Madam President, I would like I can only note that at the end of the minister's speech it emerged, the line we have seen more than once that the government has and the agenda it is working on: how can we make it as difficult as it is only possible to come here, whether you want to seek asylum, come here and work or labour immigrants? It is clear that the attention to the fact that jobs need to be advertised through Arbetsförmedlingen linked to Syed's expulsion has made many more people aware of this and post double ads – not to get applicants through Platsbanken but to be able to refer to that part later. The Minister for Migration focuses on how to squeeze the entrepreneurs and thinks they're a little messy, stupid and generally hopeless. My focus is on the labour immigrants who have come here and seen an opportunity to actually have a future here in Sweden. They have invested in their education, in the language and in a new life here but have to return home. In Parliament, we make laws. It's the courts that interpret. In this case, I feel that the interpretation possibilities that exist have not been used, given the preparatory work that exists. When the law and politics are not in harmony, it is not the Court that should be blamed, but it is we in politics that have to do it again and in this case make it clearer. I hope that we will get to the point where we can open up the opportunity for more people to come here and contribute. I believe that Syed, along with many others, can be important parts of the work ahead. With many people who have come here on the run and are now going to enter the labour market, we need all the good forces that can help – including labour immigrants.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-72	Madam President, I would like Apparently, I find it a little difficult to reach the Minister for Migration with my questions. This is our legislation, says the Minister for Migration and refers to the Alliance Government in 2007. I wish it was still an alliance government that was in place, because then maybe we could get this right. Indeed, it is the Minister for Migration who is on the opportunity to adjust the legislation if it has undesirable consequences. What we have mentioned here is that we in the world and also in Sweden – possibly not in the Government Office – have development. We have social media that grows and gets more users, Arbetsförmedlingen has far fewer registered with them and so on. At some point in the future, we could even have phased out the Employment Service, which is part of the legislation, and introduced something else. Would no one be able to come here at this point, because it says Arbetsförmedlingen? In the statements made by the Court of Justice, it has not been said that Linkedin absolutely must not be used. It says that other things may be used but that it is up to the individual to prove that these people have had the opportunity to take part in it. Perhaps it is an unreasonable requirement to impose on an individual. We need to adapt legislation to developments. I note that time has run past both the government – at least the Social Democratic part – and Morgan Johansson. I note that, unfortunately, there does not seem to be any willingness on the part of the Minister to even develop legislation, to adjust it and to remove undesirable consequences. Something is crazy in the system when a person has trained in Sweden, got a job in Sweden and worked for almost two years in Sweden before the person is kicked out because it has not gone through the State Employment Service. We should be happy when people get jobs without going to Arbetsförmedlingen, because then Arbetsförmedlingen can focus on those who are furthest from the labour market.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-78	Madam President, I would like I asked the question twice: What is difficult for an employer to post their advertisement also at Arbetsförmedlingen? I didn't get an answer at all. We know, in the light of both this judgment and the preparatory work, that if you are to be sure that you can pass the Union's representation, that is what you should do. I'm sure there may be other ways, but to be sure, that's the way to do it. As I said, it is not a new regulatory framework, but this is something that the old government designed. They say that we should change the regulations now. Yes, but the Union's representation must still be respected. It must still be possible to make it likely that the service has been seen by everyone in the EU and EEA. That's the crux of it. Christian Holm Barenfeld speaks in a side statement that we would at some point abolish or privatise Arbetsförmedlingen. Then I understand that perhaps that is what lies in the extension of Moderate politics. But I can say that if we were to divide the Employment Service and have only a lot of private employment agencies, I think it would be even more difficult to demonstrate in court that the Union's representation has been achieved. Then the common platform in the EU would not exist at all. I keep coming back to the question: What is so difficult? In order to ensure compliance with the regulations, why can't you also use the Swedish Public Employment Service's website? It then highlights the major issue of labour immigration. My attitude is not that we should make it more difficult to come here to Sweden as labour immigrants. My position is that those who come here should be guaranteed good working conditions. They should not be used in different ways, not work for very low wages under very bad conditions. The problem with your legislation was that you did not see it and did not build in sufficient control functions. That is something we need to work on.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-84	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me if I intend to review the transfer guardians' activities, clarify the responsibility for the transfer guardian and improve the supervision of good men. Thomas Finnborg has asked me whether I will take any action in response to recent revelations of good men who are embezzling, whether I share the view that there is a need for improved supervision and, if so, how. He has also asked me whether I consider it serious that good men should not be reported to the police and how the problem should be addressed. The system of good men and stewards is based on individuals in all parts of society being able to undertake a mission that represents an important contribution for a fellow human being. Many times their efforts are crucial to ensuring that those in a vulnerable situation have their rights met. Ensuring the proper functioning of the system is an urgent task for society. I am therefore seriously concerned about the shortcomings in the supervision of good men and managers that have emerged in recent media reporting. For this reason, I have met representatives of the county boards concerned and the municipalities and county councils of Sweden for a discussion on the problems that exist in supervision. There is a regulatory framework that sets out how the transfer guardians and county administrative boards should conduct their supervision. Legislation has been reviewed and improved on several occasions in recent decades. For example, the supervision of the transfer guardians has been concentrated on seven county boards from having previously been a task for 21 county boards in order to streamline supervision and strengthen legal certainty. Just over a year ago, new rules also came into force aimed at improving the control of good men and stewards. I am not ruling out further legislative changes, but the important thing now is to ensure that supervision works in practice as well. The Government therefore intends to appoint the county administrative boards to improve their supervision. For example, there should be an opportunity for county administrative boards to better coordinate supervision and support to transfer guardians. The supervisory tools available to the county boards should also be used more frequently and in a more strategic way. I also expect the transfer guardians to take steps to improve their supervision. It is crucial in this work that municipalities ensure that transferers are given the competence and organisation required by the assignment. Of course, if there is a mistake in the supervision of the transferors that a crime has been committed, it should be reported to the police. During the discussions I have had with the county boards concerned and the Swedish municipalities and county councils, there has been a consensus on this. I think that a police report plays an important role not only in ensuring that prosecution takes place but also in sending signals to others that crimes have consequences.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-88	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Justice. It was in April that SVT's Mission's investigation drew attention to cases where good men had robbed their principals and where the municipal guardians had failed to file complaints even though they were aware of the irregularities. Both my questions and those of Thomas Finnborg were asked in connection with the TV programme and should have been answered on 20 May – almost four weeks ago. I understand Morgan Johansson has a tight schedule. As far as his answers could be seen, he has devoted time to gathering evidence to answer our questions about what he intends to do. That's good. I would like to begin by pointing out that most good men and trustees are doing enormous work to help the weakest and most vulnerable; age-dementia, disabled people, minors without guardians or parents who live with disabilities themselves and unaccompanied children. I have previously been a municipal councillor and member of a transfer board. There were many difficult cases of conflict, threatening situations and a widespread misery to be responsible for. A constant problem for the business was to find people who were prepared to get into work, to get the necessary training and, above all, to spend the time required for such a mission. Unfortunately, the fact that a few annual accounts may not have been reported on time had to be accepted. Even the employee of the municipality had to work hard to keep the business going. The Association of Godmans in Kungsbacka courted me diligently, and I got a good insight into what they actually do. The Center Party wants to see a strengthened guardianship activity and does not see it as possible or desirable to include it in social services. This would entail a significantly higher cost and a much lower quality. It has been shown that small municipalities are unable to maintain the necessary skills and control. This is being exploited by rogues. In my interpellation, I stress that it is unacceptable when guardians do not report fraud. It would have been surprising if the Minister of Justice had taken a different view. The Center Party welcomes the fact that the Minister has commissioned the county boards to improve supervision. Then let us hope that he also sends money for it. We also want the supervisory responsibilities of the transfer guardians to be strengthened and to be given the opportunity to impose sanctions on a good man or trustee who is not doing well. For those municipalities that have too few cases or cannot find a person who can take on the task of being a transferor, it must be possible to interact about the function. It shall be possible to have a joint board or guardian with the neighbouring municipality. It now seems that the government is taking this issue as seriously as we in the Center Party are. That is why I have a supplementary question. Does Morgan Johansson think that the system of guardians, guardians and good men works well, or does he see reason to consider another form of organization?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-97	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I also think it is positive that the Minister has met representatives of the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and the County Administrative Boards so quickly to sort out the urgent issues of fraud and crimes against the principals. We know that the issue of good men and stewards is essentially about the protection of the weakest in society. The state and municipalities have the ultimate responsibility when taking over and managing the individual's economy. There is a need for a new integrated regulatory framework for operations in Sweden so that there is a holistic approach throughout the area. The legislation has been in force since 1924. Over the years, some additions and changes have been made to the legislation – for the better – but I think that they have patched and fixed for many years, and no one has had the real overall responsibility. There is a great challenge for the future. Today there are over 100,000 good men, and they are increasing with the unaccompanied children. They manage an estimated 35 billion – a considerable amount. Cases at district courts have increased by 27 per cent recently. Most good men make a fantastic effort, but unfortunately there are exceptions – as we have seen in the media. The supervision of the operation is inadequate, and it is unclear who should report the crime that has occurred – as we have heard before. On 1 January 2015, legislation was tightened up in various areas. The County Administrative Board of Dalarna was tasked with producing statistics for the whole country. Unfortunately, we have still not seen any results. As I understand it, the municipalities have not submitted information to the County Administrative Board.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-104	Madam President, I would like I believe that there is a broad consensus on the importance of good men's activities. I know that the origins of these interpellations were just the revelations we saw a few months ago. You reacted as strongly as I did when you saw them. They were prosecuted. But they were just a pick of errands. The cases that SVT had gone through showed that over SEK 20 million could be detachable and not fully accounted for. It was a limited part of all the errands. If one looked at all the cases, it would be that several hundred million crowns have not been reported. It is, of course, a very great scandal. It was an important journalistic work that SVT did with that disclosure. It became quite clear that we had to do something, especially in view of the fact that in some cases a sort of overlying attitude was also signaled. Are you really going to press charges? He was heard from some quarters. It could be called that if you dug too deep, no more would want to be good men. I found it urgent to make a strong mark against this. The business and mission of good men are incredibly important issues. There is, of course, a mission to keep an eye on the economy, but goodwill also plays an important social role for many people. Let's not forget that. They may not always have so many other external contacts. This applies not least to all the unaccompanied children who came to Sweden last year. Often the good man becomes an important interface to society. The vast majority, as Thomas Finnborg said, are doing a fantastic and brilliant job. So it is so important to overcome any concerns so that the reputation does not defame the entire mission. That is why it is also important that supervision works. As I said, I met with SKL and the seven county boards that have supervisory responsibilities last week. We had a very good discussion over a few hours on how to move forward. I almost got the picture that they needed that collection, to meet and talk about these things, in order to start sneezing up many things that they could solve. I said that, in order to support this, we will give a special mandate to the seven county boards to look at what they can improve in terms of information, cooperation and training, within the framework of the current regulatory framework. They will also look at whether they need something more in the form of legislation to strengthen supervision. Such a task we are in the final stages of being able to give them. I say we start there. Should we now start to rearrange the whole system, especially when there were so many unaccompanied children last year and there is a great need for recruitment, I think we are going to go over our heads at least at this stage. So I say: let us start by going in and seeing how we are doing to strengthen supervision within the framework of the current rules – and look at the regulatory framework – instead of implementing a major shift in the system! At least there I am today when it comes to thinking about how to proceed with this.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a supplementary and more reasoned answer, Minister. We're two interpellers here. Thomas Finnborg knows these questions and is the spokesperson of his party. It is good and important that we can have a conversation about something that is so topical and important. It is about the most vulnerable people, namely those who need someone who can provide for the person. It is about monitoring right, making sure that medical appointments are booked, keeping in touch with authorities, keeping in touch with elderly care in the municipality, ensuring that medicines are collected, paying bills and making sure that cash is available. For that, you have to have access to accounts. If you miss a payment date, the principal, who may be laid off from his apartment, will be hit. We heard about a case where a man lost his salary contribution and thus his work because the administrator had forgotten to apply for it. This is not a strong group that can make its voice heard, and therefore it is good that the mission review puts its finger on negligence, irregularities and fraud. Those who are responsible as guardians are pointed out and forced to explain why they have mismanaged the control and do not report crimes committed against individuals by rogue good men. It is certain that it may be up to 100 million that these people have been robbed of. Now the needs are increasing. There are more older and more prescriptions from psychiatry. There are more unaccompanied minors who lack relatives in the country and need help with school, asylum process, money and social contacts. These are interesting and important tasks for those who are involved in their fellow human beings and have time, but it is difficult if you do not have the right skills, yourself through a difficult period or lack the time needed. However, it is gratifying that the government seems to stand up for the system and work to strengthen it. It is important that we show the cards from a political point of view and give the transfer guardians the right tools and support so that the thousands of good men who work for 100 000 principals do not feel connected with criminals without being able to continue their work in support of the vulnerable. My calls to Morgan Johansson are possibly to break open doors, but there needs to be a central government authority responsible for the transferer's activities. It doesn't exist today. Strengthen and clarify county boards' supervisory responsibilities over transfer guardian activities! Morgan Johansson has already mentioned that. It is today concentrated on seven county boards, and by a possible new regional division it follows that they are likely to be fewer. Then make sure that there are financial resources and legal expertise for this at the county administrative boards! Clarify the responsibility of the guardian or RACs to monitor finances and accounting, and ensure that the good men guard the right and care for the person! Also increase the amount of the allowance so that the principal is given the opportunity to receive higher compensation to pay the good man for the work done. As I pointed out in my interpellation, there is also a lack of national statistics on activities; we are moving with slightly different numbers and sums, and we are not quite sure how many principals and good men there are. It is good that the county boards have been given a task here, but there is no information about the responsible authority. Please provide information about this and about the statistics! If this is to be taken together, is this an investigation? What are we going to look at?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-120	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for your answer. I have been working on these issues for quite some time, for six years since I entered the Civil Affairs Committee in 2010. I have met with guardians, trustees and the Association of Swedish Supervisors, who is doing a large amount of volunteer work to make this work work. The consensus is that, unfortunately, there are quite major shortcomings in the system. These are education, poor supervision and different ways of working in the municipalities. There are also different payment systems; in the case of unaccompanied persons, the municipality has, and this has caused problems. It is a little higher for unaccompanied people, and it will be difficult to recruit for municipal activities. It is also poor follow-up, and it is difficult to recruit competent good men in more difficult cases. Ola has mentioned some things that should be included in the review. I think we should look at whether we need a central body that might have the overall responsibility, so that in Sweden it is equivalent to education and other things. This should be examined with a working set of statistics. However, it is the municipalities that have not submitted, so it is a problem. We should look at this with a better and equal education that is common to the whole country, so that we can get the quality of this. You should look at clearer rules in the event of a crime; we have discussed it and got answers to it – you should look at it now. I guess it's good to agree on who's gonna report what. It cannot be the administrator himself, who may have committed the crime, but someone has to report it. One should also review the possibility of rotation of good men, for a person may not be a good man for 20 years. It can cause problems sometimes. I know that Morgan Johansson has discussed a register of good men with Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, and it may be difficult to build one. But it may be possible to do so within the local guardian board, which has some control. Consideration should be given to the possibility of appointing a legal person in complex cases. This is important; some people can punish themselves today and say that they do not want anyone, threaten and so. Then we must have another solution.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-127	Mr President, I would like to This issue is really important, and I must take this opportunity to reinforce some of the points raised by Ola Johansson, among others. It is, in fact, a question of preventing us from getting into the situations we have now reached. The Minister has stated here that he has spoken to SKL and acted on the matter, and then I remember what it was like when in 2014 we came up with the bill on what came into force on 1 January 2015. You from the Social Democrats then had a follow-up motion that you thought it was important to set up an investigation that was more general and more comprehensive. I very much hope that the Minister will stick to what the Social Democrats said at the time. Unfortunately, the Green Party was not involved in that follow-up motion, but I very much hope that you will stick to this. In this context, I would also like to say that it is perhaps a good thing if there is a parliamentary review. This is not an unimportant matter that can be dealt with with with the left hand. It is incredibly important that people can have confidence in those who are guardians. We know today that the transfer board will provide training. This means that it is not mandatory, and it does not say what quality it is on the transferors who are appointed. One of the things that was introduced on 1 January 2015 was that the control of which good men were given assignments should be tightened up. It must be made clear what that tightening should mean. What is it a good man should fulfill? The Minister says that we must not make any major changes in view of the great need we have, and I would say the opposite. The great needs that exist now mean that we have to make extra demands, Minister. These are extremely difficult questions. Being a good man for unaccompanied minors, with everything these children have been subjected to, is being a deputy parent. Then you can't wait to see that we get good men to do that job. When a good man himself cannot handle a task, there must be someone who takes legal responsibility for it being done in the right way. That is why it must be made clear that there should be different kinds of boards. I expect the Minister to do something about it and, as the Minister and the Social Democrats have proposed, to do, as the accompanying motion has said, a general review. We know that there are many sole guardians who have a great deal of responsibility out in the country's municipalities. One way to enable small municipalities to have a greater basis and a better review is for them to work together. That is something that could be proposed. Such cooperation takes place, among other things, in Uppland. Six of the eight municipalities work together there. It gives a weight, legal knowledge and opportunities to support the good men. Minister, I would really like to point out that this is extremely important and give the Minister a bit of rye in his back to act.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-136	Mr President, I would like to You could use a little rum in your back every now and then, so thank you for that. At the same time, however, I would like to say that what we have done so far – the meetings with both the county boards and with SKL and also the mission that we are now going to give the county boards – shows with what seriousness we see in these tasks and that it is necessary for us to tighten up the system. We will give the mission, which will deal above all with many of the issues that we have touched upon. How can guardians cooperate better in the country and also in the supervisory bodies? How do you improve information between them? How do you improve education, which also Thomas Finnborg was involved in? How do you follow up on the regulatory changes that have been made in a better way? We're giving the assignment to the seven county boards. I also said at the meeting that we can't give any mission to SKL, but SKL has to be in this context. I am convinced that when the group to look at this is added, SKL will be part of it. I think that's very important to move forward. The outcome of the group's work may, I believe, be about improving things that can already be done under the current regulatory framework, but it may also be about legislative changes and probably also about some changes to the regulation that we may need to make, not least in order to achieve better cooperation. We also need to look at the rules and muscles that the public has to separate, for example, unfit good men, to ensure that transfer guardians who do not do what is better and how the supervisory muscles in this respect can be strengthened in different ways. Then I think we need both legislative and regulatory changes. We're giving this mission to the group. They may then come back with proposals to the government. And I can assure you that to the extent that we need to make legislative changes, we will go to Parliament with proposals as soon as we can. I agree with what many have said, that we must act here, which also concerns the second issue, that is, whether we should initiate a major change of system and make the whole system over. That is not something we are going into today. I now want measures in place in the short term. I do not rule out that we may need to make a major change in time. In that case, it should be preceded by a discussion with the political parties, because it is such a big thing that it must be anchored in that way. But such a change takes years to make, and we will not be able to deal with the urgent problems that I see we have right now. That's why we start with the county boards and the report from there. When it comes to the issue of police reports, I think we had a good outcome from the conversation we had with the County Administrative Board and the SKL. We fully agree that if there is a suspicion that there is a crime, it should be tried by the police. In that case, they will open a preliminary investigation which in turn may lead to prosecution. But that's where that trial is supposed to take place. There must be no other possible considerations in the background, that is, the risk of not getting enough good men, but it is incredibly important for the individual that this system works. If one suspects that one of our most vulnerable citizens has lost money, it is clear that society must stand strong, report it and ensure that it is investigated.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-145	Mr President, I would like to Then we have come to the point where we will thank you for the debate and for the answers and try to sum up. So it was last week that the minister had a meeting with SKL. That explains you were a little late with the answer, but I'd be happy to wait. 100 million may have disappeared from various principals. There are large sums of money, and above all there are large sums of money for the individual who is affected. I want to remember that in Stieg Larsson's novel Men who hate women it was a good man who was the great villain. It has surely put a picture of something that may not really correspond to reality. But we see a crime, perhaps not as gross as it, but in some cases too gross. It is something that weakens confidence. The Minister mentioned the social function. It is very important that there is trust and trust that is not sunken by these kinds of rumours. A good man can actually do a really good job but still feel exposed to being questioned. But the one most affected is the principal, the individual, who is the victim of this. And words cannot be found to describe how disgust is felt in the face of people who exploit a situation like that. Having access to an account, being able to control someone's life and not taking full responsibility is terrible. It should almost be a society's task, through parliament, government, county boards and municipalities, to publicly apologize for the actions of people who have a mission to society. It is gratifying to note that the Minister describes a mission that goes beyond what has already been promised to strengthen supervision. We welcome that. We also welcome the input made by Thomas Finnborg in reviewing the possibility of rotation, if it is possible to find good men in the opinion that is needed, and to obtain a register. It would also be good to be able to appoint a legal person as a good man and to review the possibility of increasing the amount of the exemption so that good men receive a remuneration that is reasonably similar to the amount of work done. Thank you for the debate.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-153	Mr President, I would like to I think we have made some progress in this debate. It is positive that we are now taking the first step. What is most urgent is the fraud, I think. Then there is much in this business that can be sewn together around Sweden, because it looks very different in the municipalities. I think there is a need for someone central to steer this up. It is about joint training and form systems. Everyone I've talked to is missing someone central who could help them. I know that Eva von Scheele at SKL has supported them. But the question has been on two different committees, or what it is called, on the SKL, so the preparations have been a little divided. Many municipalities have a good business. I think it would be positive if several municipalities worked together. Smaller municipalities may need to merge the activities in order to get a good business. Morgan Johansson said in his reply that the County Administrative Board should be a support for the transfer guardian. This has also been called for in the various municipalities; there is no real support. Yes, we are facing major challenges in the future, and it is of course important to have a functioning and legally secure business. I still think that there is a need for some form of central body, perhaps not an authority, that holds this together for the whole of Sweden so that you know where to turn. I do not have any more questions, so I thank you for the debate and wish you a pleasant summer.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-159	Mr President, I would like to I am a little perplexed when I listen to the Minister, so now I want a clarification of what is a small review and what is a big review. At first, the Minister said that a major review could not be made. The Minister then said that a major review should be set up if necessary and that this would take several years. For this reason, I would like the Minister to now promise that a major review will be set up. It takes several years, it is most urgent to do so as soon as possible. Then we can get something that gets better so that we don't have to be in the situation we're in. In all honor, they should make clarifications and so on, but they are not the ones who run the country. We must have clear legislation, not just SKL's appointments and such. It's important. Let me emphasise what Thomas Finnborg said about a central body. This is necessary in order for the transfer guardian activity in the country to have something to relate to and to see how the transfer guardian activity is progressing. Of course you should report if a crime is committed, Minister. But it is the individual guardian of a small municipality who should make this notification; the principal should not. Both the Minister and I know how difficult it is to make this notification in a small municipality where personal knowledge is great and there are few guardians to resort to. Therefore, someone is needed to assist the guardian with it, i.e. a committee. I would also like to thank the Minister for taking this seriously. I cannot stress enough how important this is for the people who need this help.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-165	Mr President, I would like to I also thank you for the debate and for many of the contributions made by the interpellants about what could be done. I see in front of me that we can cover most of it with the assignment we give to the county boards. If we need to do something bigger, we'll have to come back to the parties about it. Let's talk about a bigger investigation. However, as I said, the most important thing right now is that we focus on trying to tackle the problems that we can overcome in the relatively short term. I see this mission as a starting point. Of course, it is not SKL that should design the regulations; I understand that too. That's not how it should be interpreted either. My point was that SKL must be part of the group that will review how to change the regulations. The impression of the meeting I had is that if you put the important players together in the same room and give them a mission, they can solve a lot. Things that need to be changed in legislation may be brought here, but they can do a lot within the framework of what they can already do. Ola Johansson mentioned that in Stieg Larsson's book Men who hate women were a good man who was the great villain. Let me remind you that it was also a good man who was one of the heroes, namely the good man who Lisbeth Salander had first. He served as a father figure for her for a long time. I think he was described in the book as an upright old-fashioned gray boy. I just wanted to tell you. Most good men do a brilliant job. However, that is not an argument for us not to strengthen supervision, for we shall of course do so. Thank you for a good debate!
i-f2b428ebe888f094-172	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Roswall has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to prevent polygamy in Sweden. Let me start by making it clear that it is not allowed to marry in Sweden if you are already married. It's even punishable. However, as Jessika Roswall points out, it is permitted in some other countries. This is not a relationship that we can change through Swedish legislation. The main objective of international civil and commercial law is to relate, with a certain element of diplomacy, to the fact that each country has its own legislation. The main rule of Swedish private international law is therefore that a foreign marriage is recognised here if it is valid in the country where it was concluded. Perhaps Jessika Roswall otherwise draws an overly simplified picture of the legal situation. After all, there are rules that limit the scope for recognising foreign polygamic marriages. These rules mean that a person related to Sweden cannot enter into polygamy in another country and then get it recognised in Sweden. In other cases, the authorities may refuse to recognise the marriage if it is deemed manifestly incompatible with the public policy of the Swedish legal order. This is called a public order. It is not at all certain that Swedish courts would consider a polygamous marriage to be compatible with the public policy of our legal system. However, it is up to the authorities to examine whether a foreign marriage should be recognised when it turns out that one spouse is already married, and it is up to the courts to give guidance on the matter. I am following developments and will act if necessary.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-179	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister of Justice for his answer. International private and procedural law has been much discussed in recent years. This is partly due to our membership of the European Union and partly to the internationalisation we see. Of course, people make families across borders, and there is every reason to come back to that. I know that the Minister of Justice recently attended a Council meeting to discuss precisely private law rules in the area of family law. But what we are discussing today is the reverse: a private law rule that is permitted in some other countries but not in Sweden and which is completely alien to our legal system, namely polygamous marriage. In Swedish law, we treat spouses in a marriage equally for more than a hundred years. As long as two same-sex spouses have not had the same rights, but today it goes without saying. It is part of our Swedish legal concept and a fundamental right that each spouse be guaranteed equal rights and the same protection rules. In addition, we have a constitution that sets out people's equal value and that there should be gender equality. In the polygamous marriages we are talking about here, it is preferably a man who is married to several wives. This is permitted in several countries, and these countries are often patriarchal. Polygamy is often associated with female oppression. These marriages are not based, as in Sweden, on equality between spouses. A number of months ago, the Civil Affairs Committee visited the Swedish Tax Agency. One of the issues we raised was the registration of polygamous marriages, which is done by the authority. That is indeed what the Minister of Justice says in his reply that it is not allowed in Sweden to marry if you are already married. I am not saying that either in my interpellation, but in fact there are nearly 300 polygamous marriages registered with the Swedish Tax Agency. Even if the authority can refuse registration, it still does. This has consequences for many parts of family law. The first thing you think about is the right of inheritance. For example, what happens if the man with three wives dies? Are all wives estate owners? If the deceased has children with the different wives, how should the children be judged? Are they children of their own? In his reply, the Minister for Justice says that I am simplifying the picture of the legal situation. That was absolutely not my intention, but rather I wanted to raise the issue of polygamous marriage, in my opinion, confirming continued oppression and is something that we should not legalise. I also wanted to highlight the civil consequences that this has. Ordre public, which the Minister of Justice raised, means that the Swedish court can refrain from applying foreign law if it is manifestly contrary to Swedish law. The Minister of Justice says that he is not sure whether Swedish courts would consider polygamous marriage compatible with our legal system. My opinion is that they are not. They violate both the Constitution and the public order. But as I just said and as I wrote in the interpellation, it is a problem when an authority in Sweden registers marriages. It has consequences and is unsatisfactory. I do not believe that these situations will be reduced by the world around us. I believe that the policy must be clear that polygamous marriages are not approved. The Minister of Justice's waiting-and-see response is not enough. What does the Minister of Justice think that it is uncertain for women living in polygamous marriages what happens if their husband dies? What rights do they have? How should children be treated? Are they to be treated equally or not?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-192	Mr President, I would like to I have the parliamentary investigation service, RUT, conducted an investigation into polygamous and polygamous relationships, and I received it in my hand on March 14 this year. It has quite new numbers, I would say. You talk about 300 of them, but it's 300 marriages. There are far more people involved in these marriages. According to the RUT investigation, which is now becoming public and which can therefore be requested safely, there are 292 registered. But then it is above all the number of men who are registered, since it is mainly men who are married to several women. Because women are only married to one man, they are not registered in the same way. The total number of people involved in calculating it is just over 700 adults. To this shall be added any children present in the marriage. If you expect each woman to have the average number of births during the lifetime, which is two, we are talking about at least 1 000 children. It is therefore several thousand people in Sweden who are affected by these polygamous conditions. I do not think, therefore, that we should belittle and say that this is a small problem. Jessika Roswall mentions that it is completely alien to our legal system and thinks that a wait-and-see response is not enough. Then I find it a little strange that the Moderates themselves waited and saw for eight years without doing anything at all. At least they did nothing to make the small change of law that simply prohibits the registration of polygamous and polygamous conditions entirely in Sweden, which would be most reasonable. As late as 21 May 2015, three Moderates at SVT Opinion wrote under the heading It is good to see that the Moderates have now changed their minds. Later in the debate article, they write, "Sweden already recognizes polygamous marriages when people who move to Sweden previously married in another country." But you don't allow people to marry more than one person within the borders of the country. This is an inconsistency that should be corrected. I can agree with the Moderates on that part of the article. I think it should be corrected so that it is not possible to be married to more than one person in Sweden. There are several other examples where the Moderates have spoken out for polygamy. The Moderate Youth Association in Skåne wants to allow polygamy, which they established and joined in SVT on 23 February 2015. While I ask the government whether they intend to make the small change of law to simply ban polygamy, I would like to ask the Moderates whether they really intend to act in favour of such a change. We Swedish democrats would readily support such a proposal, but we have not seen anything in committee. We have not seen any such proposals at all from the Moderates. So far, there have been only mouthstorms.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-200	Mr President, I would like to As we all know, the starting point is that it is forbidden to marry more than one person — what is called polygamy. It is even punishable and can impose fines or up to two years in prison. There are no plans whatsoever from the government to change this in any respect. I know there is a discussion in many places, but there are no plans to change that part. At the same time, we know that it exists in other countries and traditions, preferably in Muslim countries, but it is also found in Christian tradition, in Mormons. As Mrs Roswall mentioned, the legal situation is unclear in cases where there is no connection to Sweden. With regard to the cases to which Mrs Roswall referred, i.e. the cases to which the Swedish Tax Agency must have registered and which should amount to almost 300, one sees in a deeper analysis that in the vast majority of cases people are to be regarded as false bigamists. These may be cases where one has been married before but where one cannot prove that the marriage is dissolved or that one's ex-husband is deceased. Then you're still registered. For this, the fact that 64 of the 292 are women speaks. It would therefore be women who have two or three spouses, or how many are involved. Many of the registered cases are related to this. As far as I know, polyandria is not allowed in any country, so in the vast majority of cases it is about this type of case. Registration by the Swedish Tax Agency is not recognition but an administrative measure. According to the information I have obtained, no court in Sweden has so far recognised polygamy in the sense that, for example, it has decided on an inheritance or division of property in the case of several different spouses. This may seem strange to you, since it may, after all, be situations that you should have encountered a long time ago. But so far, as far as I know, this issue has never been tried by a Swedish court. In that case, it will be examined against the question of public policy, i.e. whether this is compatible with Swedish law. If a court finds that it is, we do not know; it might as well come to the opposite. Then, of course, we will have to be prepared to act, but pending that, I would like us to ask the Swedish Tax Agency to analyse the figures and data more carefully to see what the case is. That's a study we're preparing for at the department.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-206	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I can tell Mikael Eskilandersson right away that in my opinion, as I have both said and written, this is contrary to public policy, and it should not be allowed in Sweden. Then we can discuss this. Although the authority does not acknowledge this, we obviously have a number of registered marriages where we do not know what will happen. I believe that public order is something that we have in our legal system. Every rule of law has it, and I think that is reasonable. It is for those situations where there is a conflict or a gap in the law that the court needs to close. In this case, we have a situation with a number of cases registered. It may seem strange that this has not yet been tried, but it will probably be tested at some point. Therefore, I may think that this particular issue should perhaps not be resolved by the Court of Justice but by the legislator. There are many democratic reasons for this. With this, I thank you for the debate. I have no intention of getting back into the speaker's seat. I do not want to simplify or belittle in any way, but rather raise an issue and a problem that we see, because it has consequences for civil law legislation or for practices in civil law that will have a significant impact on many people in the future.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-211	Mr President, I would like to It is sad that Mrs Roswall chooses not to go back up the speaker's seat, because I will not then get an answer to the question whether the Moderates intend to act to ban the registration of polygamy. As far as false bigamists are concerned, I would like to say to Morgan Johansson that we have 64 cases of women registered but there is no reason to believe that there are more false-registered men than women. In that case, if we pull off 64, we would still have 230 men who are actually bigamists. We know that there are bigamists in Sweden and that there are men who are married to several wives. This is found in various documentaries, radio elements and interviews with people who have lived in relationships where they have been married to several people. There is also a type of bigamists who are not registered with the Swedish Tax Agency, and they are the ones who simply marry several people in Sweden and know that it is illegal to register it and therefore ignore doing so. I know that today there are a couple of lawyers, I think it was, working to look at how many there might be. It is not quite true that these figures are correct either. However, I look forward to the toughening up of the problem and at least trying to get a grip on how many there are, because today the situation seems somewhat unclear.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-216	Mr President, I would like to Never let there be any doubt that polygamy and bigamy are forbidden. It's even punishable. We have no plans whatsoever to change that regulatory framework, but to do so. In the case of marriages concluded abroad by people who have no connection with Sweden, the question is not yet at the head of a court as to whether this is compatible with the fundamental Swedish legal order. If it is done and is an outcome that we must act on, then we must do so. I do not think that one should speculate on the figures, but what I mean when I point to the figures, Mikael Eskilandersson, is precisely that a large number of these registrations are probably linked to situations where one has not been able to show that even the former husband is deceased or a paper where it is formally stated that one has been divorced, and therefore the registration remains. But it will have no legal effect until a court examines the matter, and that has never happened so far. As I said, we must be prepared to act if that situation arises. As long as I think we should make sure that the Swedish Tax Agency can dig a little more into the figures to see what is really at the heart of this, and that is one such mission that I mean we should give.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-220	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that interpreters employed in Sweden's international efforts are given the opportunity to have their asylum applications examined at a Swedish mission abroad. The work of the Afghan interpreters has been central to the fact that Swedish units have been able to operate in Afghanistan. To support the interpreters and other local employees with protection needs who have assisted the Swedish force in Afghanistan, the government has considered it important. In connection with our military engagement within the framework of the International Security Assistance Force, ISAF, mainly ended in the summer of 2014, the responsible authorities assessed that a number of interpreters needed protection, and they were therefore granted a residence permit in Sweden within the framework of resettlement. These were individual solutions for a number of persons identified by the authorities as being in need of emergency protection at the time. It is not possible to apply for a residence permit as a quota refugee, but presentation of persons proposed to be taken out for resettlement must be provided by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, or a Swedish foreign authority. The trial is conducted independently by the Finnish Immigration Service according to the rules of the Aliens Act after hearing the Swedish Security Service. This is an individual examination based on the assessment of protection needs according to the provisions of the Aliens Act. A person who wishes to receive international protection in Sweden must submit his/her asylum application to a competent authority, that is to say to one of the Migration Agency's application units in Sweden, or contact the border police when he/she enters Sweden. If a person should turn to a Swedish embassy for the purpose of seeking asylum in Sweden, the embassy is obliged to accept the application and forward it to the Migration Agency for a decision. However, under the provisions of the Aliens Act, it is not possible to grant an asylum application from a person who is not in Sweden. Anyone who is unable to get to Sweden for protection can turn to UNHCR. Sweden has taken responsibility for the people that Swedish authorities have assessed as having a serious threat picture and need for protection linked to their service with the Swedish Armed Forces in Afghanistan. It is not the government that assesses and makes decisions in individual cases, but it is independent authorities that are responsible for dealing with this type of issue under existing legislation. According to the government form, the government is prevented from making decisions on matters relating to the exercise of authority against individuals. As always, it is important to learn lessons from the way previous work has worked, in this case in terms of dealing with issues related to local staff in international operations. In the light of what has been said at the moment, I see no reason to take any action on Allan Widman's question.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-225	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice and Migration, for the answer that was given! It was a fairly detailed examination of the law in force in this area. Of course, the government cannot decide in individual cases how administrative authorities should act, but the government has the right of initiative when it comes to legislation. My question is not primarily legal, Mr President, but political and even moral. The interpreters in the service of the Swedish state in Afghanistan have fully shared the risks of our soldiers. Two of them paid the ultimate price and died in Swedish government service in Afghanistan. Several of the others have been injured by opponents. It was the previous government that initiated what is now called a special order. The Government will come back to this in its response. It means that some people have been selected by the Swedish Armed Forces and the Migration Agency for so-called resettlement, i.e. what used to be called quota refugees. However, this initiative only included interpreters who were in service by the turn of the year 2013/14. All those who previously served as interpreters in the Swedish operation in Afghanistan were not subject to any assessment by the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces believe that it is also not possible to do this for former employees. The result, Mr President, is that more than 20 interpreters are now in Afghanistan. It was the previous government that initiated this special arrangement. I would like to say that it was a good thing that some kind of initiative was taken at all. However, the initiative and the special scheme have been completely inadequate. The whole process seems random. It is days of service that determine whether or not the need for protection can be met. We have experienced how the authorities, the Migration Agency and the Swedish Armed Forces and also parts of the Government Office, balls this question about the interpreters between themselves. TT wanted comments only yesterday from the Government Office, and they were first referred to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and then over to the Ministry of Justice. We have also seen how a chief lawyer at the Migration Board came to unannounced visits and provided information about the trials that were going on a few days before the judgment in the Migration Court. Today we read at TT that when three interpreters went to Kabul to check whether they could submit an application for a residence permit, the Swedish Mission in Afghanistan did not open its door to them or even come to the gate to listen to what they had to say. There have also been instructions from the Migration Agency to embassies that when this type of matter is up, you should not ask any questions about the need for protection. What we have seen and what we are seeing, Mr President, is a breakdown in the special arrangements that have been put in place. The Committee on Defence has informed itself, and I myself asked Director General Anders Danielsson whether legislation is needed to ensure that we have a legally secure public review of the interpreters' protection needs. His answer was crystal clear: yes.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-236	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman's criticism falls heavily on the old government. I take it that Allan Widman is critical of the limitations that were made at the time. The foundation is that in 2013 – 2014 this special scheme gave 23 interpreters and other local employees with protection needs a residence permit in Sweden. In total, there were 68 people. It was done by the authorities. It was a system in which the Swedish Armed Forces went to the Migration Agency with their assessment of who it was that needed this protection based on their service in Afghanistan. Then the Finnish Immigration Service, within the limits of the quota, actually granted all those that the Swedish Armed Forces joined to the Finnish Immigration Service. So this was in the days of the old government. It is two years since that assessment was made. That was where the need for protection was assessed. That was where the decisions were made. I have no opportunity or reason to reconsider that assessment now, two years after. Of course, wherever you draw the line, if it is in time, if it is a circuit or a particular country, we will always end up in situations where people are not satisfied and who say that they also want to be in that circle. And why should we just talk about interpreters? Why not assistants or drivers or other local employees? I do not think that we can end up in a situation where just because you have worked for a Swedish embassy or a Swedish mission should have advanced to an asylum application in Sweden or in the worst case, some kind of obvious right to receive asylum in Sweden. It can't work that way. We have this order that was used by the old government, that is, we have the opportunity to take people to Sweden on the quota. It was used last time. It is a method that I think you should use again if it is needed. But to go in and reconsider matters retroactively in individual cases, something that actually did not even the previous government and my predecessor did because this was completely handled by the Armed Forces, we cannot do. I also find no reason to change the whole system. Should this situation arise again, then we will have to use the quota system that we have today, as was done in the past.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-243	Mr President, I would like to The old government should have both praise and, indeed, criticism – praise in the sense that this is the first time a government has considered and taken initiatives in this issue that has been with us not only in Afghanistan but in other international efforts. The criticism is that the system does not work. It is not predictable, it is not legal, it is not public and there is no possibility of appeal or similar review. I can only say that the system has been extremely random among those who have served for the Swedish state. Today we can read about an interpreter named Ahmad. He served from 2005 to 2012, i.e. seven years. For some reason, he is not given the opportunity to have his need for protection tested. On the other hand, other interpreters who have served for two years as late as the judgment of the Migration Court on 7 March 2016 received a permanent residence permit in Sweden. It is not the case, Mr President, that I am standing here saying that all interpreters and all local employees should be entitled to a residence permit in Sweden. That would, of course, be an incomprehensible order. What I'm saying is that one should at least have the right to have that question examined. I can see that the Minister for Justice and Migration is devaluing somewhat the efforts of our interpreters. They have, Mr President, been standing next to Swedish officers and soldiers in contact with opponents, and a number of them, as I explained in my previous speech, have actually died in Swedish service. It is not comparable to cleaning camper, delivering food or equivalent. They have been visible to the opponent, and they are unfortunately through the information that is, among other things, on the internet depicted, filmed and fully accessible to anyone who wants to in their home country. What I am talking about, Mr President, is that we need to have a system that works, in which those who have a need for protection are given an opportunity, provided that this has arisen through the service of the Swedish State. Those who do not have grounds for protection should not, of course, be subject to a residence permit. I am very, very concerned when the Minister for Justice and Migration says: I can tell you that it will. We're in Mali right now. We also hire local interpreters there, and it is easy to see parallels between Mali and Afghanistan. If these problems come up again, it's exactly the same system we're going to use. I find it rather strange that a Minister of Justice and Migration is prepared to accept a system that is not public, is not legal, is not predictable and strikes at random among the people in need of protection. The ambitions should be higher. We can now conclude that the Migration Court of Malmö on 7 March 2016 has granted a permanent residence permit to three persons under the European Convention on Human Rights, together with the provisions contained in the Aliens Act that when there are special reasons, people can be considered to have a special connection with Sweden and thus be allowed to stay. Mr President, I would like to I think it is very, very small measures that the government needs to propose to Parliament in order for us to have a more satisfactory order.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-252	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman tells me it was a random order. I assume that the Swedish Armed Forces also in the time of the bourgeois government had good judgment. But as far as I understand Allan Widman's comments, he thinks they did not. I still have to rely on the judgment you had at the time and the boundaries that you did at the time. Then the need for protection was assessed. Then it was said that this need for protection existed for these 23 individuals, also with families. A total of 68 people were taken to Sweden in 2013 and 2014. I have to trust that, and so will I. The fact that there are others who would like to come to Sweden does not mean that we have to redo the whole system. No matter what you do about a system, you will always have a circuit that would like to accompany, in addition to those that are ultimately allowed to stay. You'll always be faced with those boundaries. Allan Widman is dissatisfied with the old government's decision in this regard. I understand that he is, but he does not have to assume that we would do the same kind of demarcation in future situations, even if it is ultimately the decisions of the authorities that are at stake. I am not going to redo the entire system so that we can create security for those who have worked for Sweden. I believe that we can work within the framework of the refugee legislation and the quota system that we have today. Perhaps we can do a better job than the old government did next time these cases come, because I share the view that this is probably not the last time. We will have more of these situations in the future, but I am not going to reconsider the decisions taken under the previous government.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-257	Mr President, I would like to I believe that there are quite a few systems that are being tested by the new government, and that is surely the very meaning of coming to government power. It will then have the opportunity to review and renew policies on various points. It is not the Armed Forces that make bad judgements. I never said that. What I have said is that the Swedish Armed Forces consider themselves, in accordance with an existing regulation, prevented from testing others than those on duty in relation to this need for protection. Thus, they have only been able to test those who served as late as the turn of 2013/14. Not everyone who served in the past has even been subjected to such a test, for the simple reason that the Armed Forces consider themselves prevented on legal grounds – legal bases that the Minister for Justice and Migration seems to have no desire whatsoever to change. The final result that we are now seeing, Mr President, is somewhat contradictory. Sweden has received tens of thousands of asylum seekers from Afghanistan over the past year, including many unaccompanied refugee children. But the Minister for Justice and Migration shows no willingness whatsoever to help the twenty interpreters who served on Sweden's mission in international operations in Afghanistan. I'm not saying that all local staff will be allowed in unconditionally. I am simply saying that they must be given a right of redress that is legally secure, public and predictable. But I can only say after this relatively long interpellation debate, Mr President, that there is no will to stand up for these people. When we were there, many soldiers said to them: You are our brothers in arms. But now we have left them, and we do not even give them the opportunity to have their reasons tested. I think it is very bad, Mr President.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-262	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps Allan Widman should examine himself for a while. This isn't Allan Widman's first year in Parliament. He has been a member of the Riksdag for a long time and has been active in defence policy for the entire period – I am well aware – including the years 2013 and 2014. What did Allan Widman do in relation to the old government to meet the requirements that are now being imposed on the new government? In practice, he says that we should correct the decisions of the old government that he feels were not correct, moreover in individual cases. I said I can't do that. Sweden as a country has taken responsibility for 23 people plus their families, i.e. a total of 68 people. This was the assessment that the Swedish Armed Forces made at that time. I can't go in there and try the Armed Forces' judgment. I won't. Then Allan Widman asks me: But can't you redo the whole system so that you can apply for asylum in embassies or missions? Then I say: No, let us use the quota-refugee system that we have in these cases again. The next time this happens, we may be able to do a better job than the bourgeois government did. We'll see when we get there. No matter how you land in these situations, I can guarantee that there will always be a group that says: But I have also been there, I am also threatened and I also have these needs. That's how complex this whole matter is. We stick to the system that exists. Perhaps we should do a better job than the previous government did the next time it becomes relevant. But I am still quite happy that we have been able to give almost 70 people of those who have worked for us protection in Sweden.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-268	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if I am going to take any steps to change the legislation following a decision by the Supreme Court on the possibilities to reproduce art in public space. As always with regard to copyright, it is important to strike the right balance between the rights of authors and other interests. A starting point should be that there should be good opportunities to access and share the public space. It is therefore natural that the interests of authors sometimes have to stand back. However, the extent to which this should be done is not self-evident. The Supreme Court's ruling updates provisions of the Copyright Act which in some cases provide for the possibility of freely depicting works of art that are placed outdoors. Mikael Eskilandersson believes that the decision can be expected to have consequences for the entire digital development, including search engines, server owners and linking. The decision, however, deals with the application of the current rules to a database of public art on the Internet. I believe that it is not possible to draw the far-reaching conclusions that Mikael Eskilandersson makes on the basis of this individual decision on a limited issue. The European Commission is currently working on a review of the EU copyright acquis, including restrictions, and a proposal can be expected in the autumn. The restrictions which the Commission is reviewing include those which are relevant in the decision of the Supreme Court. It will thus be possible, in the context of the announced review, to consider further how to draw boundaries in different respects.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-273	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! However, one thing that was completely missing in the answer was what the government really thinks. Should it be possible to publish a photo of a public work of art online and thus make it searchable for others? Yes or no? Harder than that, the question is not fundamentally. Some answer to the question of what the government really thinks, I do not get, and the answer breathes lightly against the perhaps fastest growing industry right now. Entrepreneurs and internet developers who handle images online should have the right to have an answer as to whether their activities are not only legal but perhaps above all desirable by the government. Then it does not hold to refer to the fact that the EU might come up with new directives in the autumn. What Wikimedia has done was to enable people to upload their own photographs of works of art, and then it was possible for others to search these images. Actually, Google and all other search engines do the same with the difference that they don't normally provide the server space itself. However, the Supreme Court ruling makes it very clear that transferring works to the public is the problem. I quote from the verdict: The Supreme Court declares that the provision of Paragraph 24(1) of the Copyright Act, where the restriction of the author's exclusive right is limited to images, does not allow Wikimedia, from its database of photographs of works of art, permanently placed in or in public space outdoors, to transmit the works via the internet to the public. Whether the provision is made for commercial purposes is irrelevant. ..................................................... So the Supreme Court seems to have hung up on Wikimedia making the images of the works available. I cannot interpret this in any other way than that all search engines are now in trouble and also sister page Wikipedia, which mainly contains text but which often when writing about public works of art has with a picture to show what you mean. Because search engines do the same thing as Wikimedia, i.e. they transmit the works via the internet to the public, instead of using Wikimedia, for example, Google can use it to get the basics of the same thing. For example, if I google on the square Perstorp, I get pictures of the artwork that is there, which is exactly what Wikimedia is not allowed to do. If I also know that the artist's name is Folke Truedsson and the work of art The number of pictures of the work of art is almost unlimited at an ordinary googling. These are almost exclusively images that have not been approved by the artist. Sure, with Google I also get a lot of other pictures that depict everything else, and therefore there is a market for services like Wikimedia. But that can hardly be what determines whether Google is legal, that Google also brings other images. Mr President, I would like to In his reply, Morgan Johansson refers to my drawing too far-reaching conclusions from the judgment in an individual case. But this is not just any goal. It is a particularly crucial one of the country's highest instance of the question of what is happening to images of public art online, which is now indicative, or precedent as it is called in bureaucrats Swedish, for all the other courts in the country and probably will be for many years to come. In all likelihood, in no court in Sweden will dare to go against the Supreme Court and do another interpretation. Morgan Johansson doesn't know how the justice system works? That the Supreme Court's judgments should guide all other judicial authorities should be taken into account by Morgan Johansson, and I think he knows this very well.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-282	Mr President, I would like to The issue of copyright and intellectual property has always been a topical issue. In recent times, however, I have noticed that the issue has surfaced and that, despite digitalisation, more and more actors are talking about it. And I would like to stress here, above all, the word abominably, because, somewhere, digitalisation has made a difference to the legislation. The law has not followed, as so often when we talk about and deal with different forms of digitalisation. The last time we heard the debate on film policy, which I know the Minister has been involved in, given the illegal downloading and Piracy. Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions for the Minister: how do you intend to follow up the copyright law so that both individuals, artists, photographers and all other actors in the industry can find a solution that everyone can feel safe with? Then I mean financially, because it is a work that is made visible digitally, whether you take part of the work of art on site, if you see it via Wikimed ia or if you search Google. For an artist, it is perhaps primarily a matter of making his work visible, and in the digitized world today it is done primarily and easiest through the examples that Mikael Eskilandersson mentioned before me. How does the Minister ensure that both perspectives are met, i.e. that the artist gets the job to which he is entitled? But also a private person should be able to take part of a work through the legal path.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-287	Mr President, I would like to Well, Mikael Eskilandersson, I do know how the judicial system works; otherwise I would probably not stand where I stand. That is also precisely why I am cautious about making too far-reaching interpretations of different judgments. This is what I feel Mikael Eskilandersson is doing – draws very far-reaching conclusions from this judgment. One cannot interpret it, for example, so that it would now be impossible for individuals to photograph anything in the city and post it on their Facebook page. That is not what the trial has been about. What HD has tried is precisely the specific case. With this structure on the website and the search opportunities available, you should therefore have a contact with the authors and be prepared to pay a fee – pay for the service simply. The so-called panoramic exception is not lifted. So you can photograph something in town and then just put it out. The photographing of private individuals is not affected. On the other hand, copyright is an issue that is regulated above all at EU level. That is why we have referred to EU law in the last part of my interpellation response. That is why we in Sweden are in negotiations with the European Commission on how this should be regulated in the long term. I have said several times that in many respects I am on the side of copyright holders when it comes to taking things that they do not have the right to take, such as putting films or other things online without paying for it. I also intend to move forward on the further criminalisation of serious copyright offences. But it is clear that I also understand that one cannot go so far as to restrict ordinary individuals' opportunities to, for example, photograph the city. That's not what you're after in the HD judgment either. Should we receive signals that this would go so far, we will of course have to act, but in the light of this judgment, I do not think that such conclusions can be drawn.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-293	Mr President, I would like to It was nice that my pictures on Facebook do not become illegal immediately anyway. But it is true that the Supreme Court now states that anyone who makes the photos searchable on the Internet and thereby transfers the works to the public commits a criminal act if the artist is not asked. Even if I do not commit an illegal act when uploading my image, the question is whether there will be any image services left online. The image services will be illegal if you can tag and search the photos based on artwork, the artist's name or similar, as you could on Wikimedia. This is despite the fact that the artist has sold his work in order for it to become public and received money for it and that the buyer often expected the work to become a symbol of the locality or municipality. This is about the ability of municipalities to market themselves, because the best marketing is probably the one we rarely think of as marketing. I'm talking about when tourists put out photos of themselves in front of the municipality's artwork along with some positive text about the municipality and how nice it is to be there– something that many people do to show close and familiar what they do. The artist should be aware of this when he creates his work and take into account when it is sold to the municipality, or whoever is now the buyer. Worst of all, it affects internet companies and everyone else who deals with images online. Since the network is global, it is relatively uninteresting what the EU may find possible, as competition comes mainly from non-EU countries. For my part, I keep my fingers crossed because Brexit will be the beginning of the end of a supranational Europe and that, in the future, we can avoid supranational directives that destroy our competitiveness, like the rules on public art. Sweden has unique opportunities to attract large internet companies and get new internet companies to grow in the country. But, of course, the possibilities are drastically limited if the rules for companies are complicated. As the government knows, Sweden's climate and access to secure electricity are among the most important factors for the larger companies on the internet who are considering where to place their servers. But then there must not be rules like these, which are perceived as restrictive and make these companies opt out of Sweden. So the government does not really have any direct objections, as it stands today, but waits for what the EU might force them to think eventually. It is strange, I think, that the government representative Morgan Johansson does not take the opportunity to describe his vision of how it should work in Sweden, now that he has some time to do so. Obviously, you do not want to look at the issue yourself, but you think that it is something that the European Union can take on, and that is just what the European Union comes up with. That's how I see it. The question is whether in the future we will have image services in Sweden where we can post photos, even those that show when we stand in front of a public work of art.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-301	Mr President, I would like to On this issue, several perspectives need to be taken into account. Some of them we have mentioned earlier here today. As I said, we need a copyright that both gives artists the right to compensation and makes works of art visible. Will the Minister continue to work with the departments concerned, such as the Ministry of Culture, Justice and the Ministry of Enterprise? Will the Minister continue to deal with these issues? When is it possible to see an answer and a development? That is exactly what is needed in this area. The actors have begun to talk about this. As I said, it is an issue that has surfaced. The question is highly topical and has been so for several years. But it feels like it's now that in several areas you start to grab it for real. The creators need a solution that everyone feels safe in. As a dancer and cultural creator, I know that an image bank is a way to clarify my art form. I know that artists are also asking for this. Why make it difficult for them to make their art visible, to be recognized as artists, and to try to make a living? That's what it's all about. The more visible you are, the more chances you have of livelihood in the long run. Thank you for a good debate! I hope for continued and good work from the side of the Minister and the Ministry.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-306	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say to Angelika Bengtsson that there is nothing that prevents an artist from putting his art online. What is at issue here is whether others should be able to do so in such a searchable way as is the case with Wikimedia without asking the artist. That is what the authors have reacted to, and that is why they went to court. It is therefore a question of defending the artists' interests, which I also feel that Angelika Bengtsson is looking for. It was, as it were, to support copyright holders and meet their interests that this process was initiated. I think, as I said, that Mikael Eskilandersson draws far too much change from this ruling by the Supreme Court. In practice, as I see it, this does not mean anything to the behaviour of private individuals, for example, when it comes to posting images online. It sounded for a while at Mikael Eskilandersson like he agreed that it probably didn't. But in the next breath he talks about tourists who are out photographing and posting pictures. That is not what has been tried by the Supreme Court. The wider concept of the panoramic exception, i.e. where you take pictures where works of art can be found in the background, is also not tested. It's a very narrow question that's been tried by the Supreme Court. It has, of course, the effect of practice, which all decisions by HD have. But it only has practical effects in the narrow cases and in the narrow situations and not in the broad way that Mikael Eskilandersson starts from. Then he says: The government sits still until the EU forces us to think something. It is perhaps a Swedish democratic view of European cooperation. Europe is something over there that forces us to think things out. After all, I have been on the EU Council of Ministers for almost six years in total. Europe does not work that way. The EU works in such a way as to discuss together how to draw different borders and what legislation to have. Of course, it is often a rather tough negotiation in the discussions. But that's how we work. In the vast majority of cases, consensus and compromise are reached. That is how you act in a modern world between different countries. Now Mikael Eskilandersson hopes that Brexit will start a way out for other countries as well. Let me just say that if this were to happen, that is to say that Europe is beginning to split up, I think we are facing a much more dangerous world. It is now 70 years since World War II ended. We've had 70 years of peace in Western Europe. This is to a very large extent due to the fact that we have had more and more enhanced cooperation between the EU countries. It should be remembered that these 70 years of peace were preceded by a situation in which we had great wars in Europe every 20 or 30 years. If we have a situation where Europe is beginning to split up, I am very afraid that we will have a very uncertain existence. This was an extension based on copyright. But you can be sure that we from the Swedish side stand up for the interests of the creators and cultural workers. For example, they should not have to find themselves in a situation where their works are used in a way that they might not have intended or where their works are copied or distributed in a way that they would not have imagined. That's our entrance. It is extremely important to stand up for it. If you can't get paid for your work, you can't be an artist in the long term either.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-316	Mr President, I would like to If we start with the 70 years of peace, I do not think we need to have monetary cooperation in Europe just so that we do not war with each other. There are many other things that could rather lead to war at present that do not directly have much to do with the EU unfortunately. But that is not what we are talking about. It is also in the interest of artists that their works of art become known. That's why this is a little double. It's not that I'm not going to Paris because I've seen the Eiffel Tower 300 go on picture. It's more because I've seen it 300 times in the picture that I might want to go there, or maybe rather 3,000 times in the picture. That's why it's double. Moreover, the artist wants to be paid for his works of art. To get paid for the works of art, it is good if the previous works of art are known. But the problem is that there is a risk that the companies involved in images cannot continue their activities. Wikimedia will not be able to continue its activities as it looks today with the decision that came from the Supreme Court, although it is actually a regular image service where you upload images and tag them to a work of art. What says that other companies that do exactly the same thing, that is to say that you can tag pictures, as it is called, give the images a search function and make them public, would not have to stop doing what they do? If you run over a company or an organisation, you have to treat all companies and everyone else the same. The question remains. Can I now legally go out and take a photo of a work of art and upload it to my website, and perhaps even collect some other public works of art on that website, and then tag them so that they become searchable? Can I do that without it being illegal?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-321	Mr President, I would like to My assessment is that you can do it. It does not affect the photography of private individuals or the ability to upload their images online in the way that Mikael Eskilandersson tries to get it to. He draws far too much gear on this particular goal. There are conflicting interests here. That's obvious. There is an interest in us being able to see as much as possible and have as much access as possible to culture, art, music and anything we talk about. But we also have very strong interests on the part of the authors. That is why the author organization BUS sued Wikimedia. That's what's at the bottom. They argued that in any case they should be asked before it is set up, and there should be an agreement in any case. This is the question that has been examined in this particular case, but not the behaviour of private individuals in general. It is not that the Eiffel Tower will disappear as a result of this. You're pulling too much gear on that, too. In this modern world, it is probably above all the interests of copyright holders that are threatened. Much of what they do is made available in a way that they have not wanted. It is about the fact that they do not get paid, and that it may end up in contexts that they have not wanted or approved. There must therefore be a dialogue between the interests. Sweden is in favour of this within the framework of the European Union. We have had 70 years of peace preceded by war every 20 or 30 years. That is why we need Europe. Perhaps we do not need monetary cooperation. Sweden is outside monetary cooperation. I myself am no friend of monetary cooperation, but I am a great friend of European cooperation. I see great risks if things break down or Europe splits up.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-326	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte has asked me why I am not following the surplus target and whether I see any reason to reconsider my current position on the state of public finances in the light of the Council's criticisms. The previous government carried out substantial unfunded tax cuts, even though the economic cycle improved. When the government took office, we inherited a budget deficit of over SEK 60 billion, the largest since the budget adjustment in the 1990s. Fredrik Schultes's claim that Sweden had the strongest public finances in Europe at the turn of the government is not true; on the contrary, several countries had higher public financial savings. Fiscal policy has now been changed in a more responsible direction. The government has been concerned that savings should return to balance and surplus and has therefore pursued a very tight fiscal policy. Public finances are much stronger today, despite dramatic and unforeseen increases in expenditure due to the high number of asylum seekers in 2015. This also applies if the economic situation is taken into account. The Government shares the Financial Policy Council's assessment that temporarily higher expenditure on reception of refugees should not be accommodated by increased taxes or severe cuts because they are just temporary and do not threaten the long-term sustainability of public finances. The Council's criticisms are based on uncertain forecasts for the future rather than on the actual fiscal policies that have been pursued. The government has secured good results and is working on measures to curb expenditure increases in several areas. Furthermore, the Government intends to continue to conduct responsible fiscal policies that contribute to the return of savings to balance and surplus at a pace that safeguards socio-economic balance. Public finances will be in significantly better condition in 2018 than they were when I took office as Minister of Finance.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-331	Mr President, I would like to It is very important to have order in the state finances. This is important because it is a prerequisite for a functioning economic policy. In the event of a recession, we must be able to stimulate the economy and maintain demand, and we must also be able to secure welfare. During the financial crisis, we saw how many countries failed to do this and what consequences it had. We saw how the welfare of Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal and, in the near future, the whole of Europe were forced to be severely cut as a result of the failure to implement a responsible economic policy which ensured that the budget was plus and minus. A prerequisite for this is that in good times care is taken to save. For if you only stimulate in bad times and then spend in good times, you will gradually erode public finances. This, Mr President, is particularly important at the moment. Sweden is facing a coming – sooner or later – recession that can hit Sweden's economy very hard. This is mainly because, now that we are in a boom, we have a historically low interest rate, which means that the Riksbank cannot help to stimulate the economy once it turns downwards. We also have a situation of great reception for asylum, which means that a great many more people will soon appear in the statistics as unemployed and without employment. 2018 will see a substantial, or at least tangible, reduction in employment. It is therefore important that, now that the times are good, we save in the barns so that we have room to stimulate the economy when the global economic cycle turns around. Then the question is: What does Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson do? What she does is completely discard the surplus target – that is, the principle of reaching surpluses over a business cycle – overboard. She's doing it in a way that's very upsetting. This is outrageous because it runs counter to what the independent economic experts say. The Council of Finance Ministers has clearly indicated that the policy currently pursued by the government is not responsible and is in danger of threatening public finances in the face of a forthcoming recession. It is also outrageous because it is dishonest by Magdalena Andersson. Before the election, she was very clear that she would not touch the surplus target. She even criticised Anders Borg for not sticking to the surplus target. Now, after the election, she has completely turned around and is going to scrap the surplus target principle. Just as she criticised her predecessor for doing so, she also fails to comply with the framework and regulations we have today. It is also shocking because the arguments presented by Magdalena Andersson are not very sharp. She claims she has halved the budget deficit. No, she doesn't! It was an alliance budget that went through the Riksdag for 2015, so it is only since 2016 that she has got through her policy. It is interesting that Magdalena Andersson presented in opposition almost exactly the same deficit as the alliance government did. In other words, if the alliance government did not take responsibility, neither did Magdalena Andersson. Politics and argumentation don't make sense.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-339	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schultes's argumentation would be a little more impressive if it were not that the Moderates on all three occasions they had to govern the country had the same result each time, namely large deficits. When we Social Democrats then have to take over after moderate-led governments, we have, at every opportunity, had to start by pursuing a tight policy to ensure that order is restored in public finances. We have done so this time too, and there I am part of a long social democratic tradition. Here it is important to point out that the state finances are now in much better shape than they were when the moderate-led government handed over the finances, even when taking into account the economic cycle. The savings we have in public finances are also much better now than it was in 2014, even when the economic effects are removed. This is because we have pursued a very tight policy – and this despite the increased costs that we have for migration. The government has made sure to take responsibility for public finances so that we could face the refugee situation that we had last autumn without jeopardising the stability of public finances. I myself think it is important that we have pursued this policy, and it shows how important it is to always take responsibility for public finances and take this issue seriously. Unfortunately, the bourgeois alliance government did not do so at the end of the last parliamentary term. The tax rate was happily reduced by borrowed money even though the business cycle was growing. After all, what was left behind was also the biggest deficit since the budgetary adjustment. Now we've turned things around. This enables us to take responsibility for public finances, and we have also ensured that we can finance important reforms such as reducing pensioner tax and strengthening the quality of home care, among other things.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-342	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I am impressed by Magdalena Andersson. I am impressed by how she can take the massive criticism that the independent economists have levelled at her, her government, her budget and her inability to hold on to public finances. I am impressed that she can take the criticism and then argue as if it were not there at all. That is truly impressive, Mr President. But it is also outrageous and serious, because it risks putting Sweden in a serious situation in the face of a forthcoming recession. Mr President, I would like to I would like to respond to some of the incorrect arguments put forward by the Minister for Finance. It is possible that the Minister of Finance has not noticed it, but we have had a global economic crisis that occurred right at the beginning of the first mandate of the Alliance Government. It was the worst economic crisis we have had globally since the depression in the 1930s. We in the former alliance government had to stimulate the economy in order to maintain demand and secure prosperity during the crisis. This was something that the Minister of Finance's predecessors in the Social Democrats, Pär Nuder, Thomas Östros and others, supported to a hundred percent. Now the Minister for Finance is standing here arguing as if this has not happened. She argues as if the great 1990s crisis had never occurred. It was because Olof Palme and Ingvar Carlsson could not take responsibility for Sweden's public finances, which in turn triggered a historical crisis that landed at the knees of the then alliance government. But it is as if this has not happened in Magdalena Andersson's world. The interesting thing is that it is not only the Financial Policy Council that does not share Magdalena Andersson's view. The OECD, the IMF and other global independent economic assessors paid tribute to Sweden during the time of the alliance government and believed that it was the country with the strongest public finances. Then came Magdalena Andersson, and now the same body is beginning to point out that Sweden no longer takes responsibility for making the economy go together. It is impressive that we have a finance minister who lives completely isolated from the outside world and from the independent criticism she receives from the economists. It is also impressive how she can take credit for a policy she herself has not carried out. Most of us remember. The government did not get its budget for 2015. This meant that the Alliance's budget was adopted by the Riksdag. When Magdalena Andersson talks about halving the budget deficit, it is, to quote her Prime Minister, nonsense. It was the Alliance Government's budget that went through. It was we who halved the budget deficit. Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to put together the Alliance's overall budgets and compare them with the government. Then you can see that we are able to achieve the surplus target. We are able to reach surpluses by 2020. The government doesn't. When Magdalena Andersson stands here and beats her chest and says that the government pursues a tight economic policy, it is like she lives in Alice in Wonderland. She receives criticism from the Financial Policy Council, the European Commission and the IMF. Then she blames the former alliance government, when we can also present a clear line for public finances in balance by 2020. It's not responsible. Magdalena Andersson endangers Sweden's public finances, Sweden's welfare and Sweden's future.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-349	Mr President, I would like to For the record, I would like to point out the following: in fact, as regards the European Commission's views on the countries' economic policies, there was the least number of comments on Sweden, of all countries. This was a point of view concerning the housing market. The Fiscal Council has also clearly noted that fiscal policy has shifted in a more responsible direction after the alliance parties lost the elections. I would like to add here, for the sake of the Minutes, that we tabled an additional amending budget for the past few months. If it were now that we had pursued an irresponsible economic policy, it would of course have been seen in 2015. On the contrary, we are pursuing a tight and responsible economic policy. This is clearly seen in saving, which is much better than when the Alliance was in the government. We also see that structural savings have improved considerably. The truth is simply that the government has pursued a very responsible economic policy. You can look forward for a few years. We are moving towards greater surpluses in the coming years, but it is clear that the path will be slower than it would otherwise have been because of the increased costs that we have for migration. Here it is important to point out that when the Ministry of Finance comes with new forecasts, the new migration figures will also be able to be included and a very positive development in the rest, which will of course affect the forecast in the future. It is important to distinguish between what is forecast and what is actually what the government has done. Here, in practical politics, the government has shown that it can take, and takes, a very great responsibility for public finances, just as Social Democraticly led governments have always done.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-352	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Magdalena Andersson received her amending budget in the spring of 2015, which meant that in September 2015 she was able to get through a tax increase and a subsidy increase – a tax increase and a subsidy increase. So much affected it. It is only since 1 January 2016 that the government has been able to put its mark seriously. Magdalena Andersson blames migration and the major refugee crisis that we have had. She can do that. Sweden has had large increases in expenditure that we would not otherwise have had. One might also ask to what extent Magdalena Andersson and her government are responsible for the refugee crisis. We, the Moderates, very clearly called for the brake to be pulled and for a refugee break to be carried out early this autumn, long before we had reached the huge reception of asylum that then became – 160 000 people. If there is considerable expenditure as a result of the migration crisis, it is also something for which Magdalena Andersson is responsible. But the interesting thing is, Mr President, that it is not only the responsibility that makes Magdalena Andersson's argument a little strange. It also gets a little strange when the Alliance, despite having exactly the same conditions as the government, is able to reach the surplus target. Why is that? Can't the Minister of Finance explain that? How is it that the Alliance reaches surpluses in 2020 but that the government does not? I can tell you what the answer is. The answer is that Magdalena Andersson is irresponsible. She wants to be able to spend a lot of money so that she can sock for the upcoming elections. She is endangering Sweden's future.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-355	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte says that we got through a tax increase and a subsidy increase in the 2015 spring change budget. I have drawn up here a list, which I intend to show, of the thirty reforms that we implemented in that spring change budget – just so that we have a correct history writing ahead of us. The government has conducted and will pursue a responsible economic policy. We always have. The Moderates have a tradition of conducting an irresponsible policy here and now and then say: In the future it will be much better. That is what we saw during the eight years of alliance government. Here and now you're going to lower the tax, but it's going to get better eventually. It is exactly the same tactic that the Moderates now have in opposition. You can look at last year and how it is this year. There is hardly a comma in difference as to what economic policy you want to pursue. Actually, there isn't for 2017 either. But they say that in the future you might want to save a little more. On the other hand, when the elections were lost, there was a major shift in economic policy on the part of the Moderates, which led to the presentation of a tighter draft budget in 2015 than it had ever done when it was in government. I think that's good. They conducted a more responsible policy in opposition than they did in government. From this I conclude: The Moderates do best in opposition.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-359	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte has asked me what measures the government plans to take to promote the creation of more jobs in the future. The prospects for the Swedish economy are good. Growth is high, unemployment is falling and the large budget deficit after the previous government has fallen sharply. Employment in Sweden is growing strongly, especially among people born abroad, and Sweden now has the highest employment rate in the EU. Last year, more people sought asylum in Sweden than ever before. When other EU countries broke into solidarity, Sweden's situation became unsustainable. The government therefore acted to ensure that more people apply for asylum in other EU countries. Although fewer people are now expected to come to Sweden in the coming years, population growth means that the employment rate, as Fredrik Schulte points out, is expected to temporarily decrease slightly before the new arrivals have established themselves on the labour market. On the other hand, it is incorrect that the employment rate should fall by 0.5 percentage points annually from 2018. In order to meet the challenges of the labour market, the government is investing in more people being able to take the jobs that are emerging. Among other things, the government is investing in a new knowledge boost, an initiative that fully covers over 50 000 training places. At the same time, many of the people who come to Sweden already have skills in areas where there is currently a shortage of labour. To make use of their expertise, the government is investing in better-functioning validation of new arrivals' knowledge and fast track to the labour market. In addition, the Government intends to reform the rules of the establishment allowance. In order to also increase employers' demand for labour, the government invests in subsidies that make it cheaper to hire. In addition, the government has launched the necessary investments in infrastructure and the largest housing policy investment in 20 years. It creates jobs and allows people to move and commute where the jobs are. Investing in common welfare is also an important part of the government's employment policy. Therefore, this autumn the government will present proposals to permanently invest SEK 10 billion per year for increased quality and more employees in welfare.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-364	Mr President, I would like to It is not above all policy that affects employment and growth, it is the global economic cycle. We have literally had seven difficult years with a historical financial crisis that has meant almost as much to the global economy as the depression in the 30's. The fact that we have now reversed this economic cycle enables us to begin to see better times ahead. That's a very positive thing. This means that growth is increasing. This means that more people are coming to work. That means we get more money to spend on welfare. So this is basically not something we can help in politics. What we can do in politics is to structurally improve the functioning of the economy, thus creating a structure in the national economy that will make growth and employment higher once there is a boom and that they become less low when there is a recession. The fact that Sweden is now doing so well is not because we have a Minister of Finance called Magdalena Andersson. She has hardly affected the Swedish economy in any significant sense until the last six months. What makes Sweden do well, that there is higher growth and higher employment than in other countries in a boom and a lower decline in a recession, is mainly because Göran Persson implemented a responsible public finance policy during the 1990s. Together with the Alliance, he carried out extensive reforms that liberalised the economy. Not least, the alliance government continued on the line between 2006 and 2014 and added a working line that meant that it paid better for ordinary people to work and run businesses. It is these reforms that have laid the foundations for Sweden's success. Magdalena Andersson's reforms have so far had no impact on the structure of the economy. She's talking about housing subsidies. It is very clear that housing subsidies will not create more jobs. It is not possible to find any research support because they will increase construction. The infrastructure initiatives she refers to were decided on by the alliance government. Otherwise, the Minister of Finance will be happy to tell you what new major infrastructure projects this particular government has decided on that were not part of the Alliance's infrastructure plan. Nor will the educational efforts that Magdalena Andersson speaks for have a major impact on the structure of the economy. It is good that people are training themselves, but you should not have much faith in labour market policy education. If an unemployed truck driver is going to become an infirmary, he will not be so by taking some courses at Arbetsförmedlingen but he will have to take a longer education in the conventional education system. What Magdalena Andersson actually does, her great contribution to changing the structure of the economy, is that she destroys Göran Persson's legacy of stable public finances and she destroys the Alliance's legacy in terms of the work line. The main part of Magdalena Andersson's policy is to increase contributions and taxes so that it becomes less profitable to work.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-370	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to Fredrik Schulte. He's an oracle of his own. He has great knowledge that education does not lead to jobs. Fredrik Schulte seems to have completely missed what reality looks like in Sweden. When I meet employers, there are three things they raise above all. One is that they do not find the right skills in the workforce. Another is that they want a more efficient infrastructure, especially rail. A third is that if they find the right workforce, it is difficult for them to move to our growth regions. In all three areas, the government is investing heavily in facilitating recruitment for employers. One of the biggest problems in the Swedish economy is the recruitment gap with more job vacancies than ever, while there are unemployed. The recruitment gap can only be solved in one way, namely through education. But Fredrik Schulte, oracle Himself, unclear where it comes from, is not only convinced but he knows that our educational efforts will have no effect. We are not just investing in labour market training. We are investing heavily in regular education, komvux, vocational adult, folk high schools, polytechnics – which are in great demand by the business community – and we are investing heavily in higher education. We have a very comprehensive training package. There are 50,000 more training places this year across the field to close the recruitment gap. But this waves Fredrik Schulte away and says that they will not give jobs. Please, Fredrik Schulte! Tell me on what grounds you make that statement.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-375	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Magdalena Andersson, I will gladly tell you. This is usually how the debate becomes when you discuss it with Magdalena Andersson. The Alliance criticises many of the labour market policy programmes undertaken by the government. There is very clear support for research because it does not work. Then Magdalena Andersson comes and criticizes the Moderates for not believing that education is good. I shall say the following three times, Mr President. Training leads to getting a job. Training leads to getting a job. Training leads to getting a job. I fully agree with Magdalena Andersson that there is a need for a functioning education system, that there is a need for more people who pass upper secondary school and comprehensive school with eligibility and who move on to higher education. I fully agree with Magdalena Andersson on investing more specifically in vocational training. Here too, the Moderates' budget is in line with the Social Democrats' budget. What we are criticising, however, is your labour market policy, your training contract, your labour market policy courses. You imagine that the problem of the recruitment gap, on which we fully agree, is solved by the fact that the unemployed take a few short courses at the Employment Service. That's not how reality works. A deficit of sick people or teachers is not solved with any courses at Arbetsförmedlingen. If a person who lacks an adequate academic background is to become a nurse or a teacher, he must go to the university, not some labour market policy programme that Magdalena Andersson has wasted tens of billions of dollars on since she became Minister of Finance. Magdalena Andersson is welcome to take the opportunity in her second speech to go up in the speaker's chair and tell us what major infrastructure initiatives her government has started that were not included in the Alliance's infrastructure plan and that we had budgeted for. That would be interesting. There are no such things. When she talks about how she invests in infrastructure, it is the Alliance's infrastructure policy that she has inherited directly from and not changed significantly. What the Minister of Finance does, on the other hand, and which is so damaging to Sweden's future, is to destroy Göran Persson's legacy of taking responsibility for public finances and, on the other hand, to destroy the Alliance's line of work. In the supporting part of the economy, she increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and uses the money to increase the contributions for those who do not work. She does so in such a way that it is hardly worth working anymore. Once people are caught up in exclusion, it is not worthwhile getting back into the labour market and re-entering the labour market and contributing through work. It is a cynical policy on the part of the Social Democrats. It is a policy that means that Sweden is on its way back to exclusion for over 1 million people. Society pays annually for the livelihood of more than 1 million people. It is a direct effect of the government's anti-job policy. This is something that will seriously threaten Sweden's future.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-384	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear Fredrik Schulte say that the increase in the number of people in exclusion is a direct effect of government policy. The proportion of exclusion does not increase during the period as the table, as we well know by now, in the spring bill shows. That proportion is constant. Then Fredrik Schulte has thus also admitted that he thinks it is good that the government's policy does not lead to increased exclusion. We thank you for that, Fredrik Schulte! We were talking about education. Nor do I think that taking some courses at Arbetsförmedlingen becomes a nurse. By taking a course at Arbetsförmedlingen you can, however, become a truck driver and truck driver. There are a number of professional jobs where there is currently a shortage and where a course at Arbetsförmedlingen can give the unemployed exactly the knowledge required by the employer. There are courses and labour market training courses that work. Fredrik Schulte says it is important for young people to attend high school. At the same time, he is opposed to educational contracts, even though the education contract has precisely that purpose – to help young people get through high school. A combination of work and education should support young people to complete important upper secondary education, because we know that it is very difficult for young people to enter the labour market if they do not have it. Tell me, Fredrik Schulte – why are you so against the education contract when it is precisely the purpose for young people to have the opportunity to get through high school? As far as infrastructure is concerned, the Government will present an infrastructure proposal in connection with the opening of the Parliamentary Session this autumn. Of course, we present the infrastructure bill every four years, as is customary. However, we also have before the bill will have chosen to increase the resources for railway maintenance. We have thus made an extensive investment in railway maintenance, and it is extremely important given the condition the Swedish railway was in when we entered the Government Office. The government is running a coherent and well-thought-out job agenda that is about investing in employers finding the workforce they need and demand. It is about making important investments in housing and infrastructure and in innovation and research, and it is about pursuing a more active industrial policy. All of this has been done by the government since it took over government power.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-389	Mr President, I would like to In Magdalena Andersson's first speech in this debate, she said that the government is investing in infrastructure and that it will create a lot of jobs. When I ask the question what kind of major infrastructure investments have been made – investments that have not already been made by the Alliance – Magdalena Andersson says in the speaker's chair that the railway maintenance has been increased a little. It's great that you raise railway maintenance, Magdalena Andersson, but it's not a big infrastructure investment! However, it is nice that we can now see very clearly that it is essentially empty words we hear from the Minister for Finance when she tells us what her job policy is. Why do I not like the education contract? Anyone who might be able to answer the question why it is not a good idea is actually Magdalena Andersson's party colleague Göran Persson. After all, he introduced the training contract – or yes, before they called it a training contract, they called it the 90-day guarantee. It was something Göran Persson introduced sometime in the late 90s, then in the form of a 100-day guarantee. He introduced it, and two years later he decommissioned it. Why would he do that? Well, he justified it simply: it didn't work. It gave no results, and it cost a lot of money. Magdalena Andersson has invested tens of billions in inefficient labour market policy programmes. It is money that could have gone to welfare. It is money that could have gone to a better functioning business sector that would have made it more profitable to work and run a business. Sweden is facing a huge challenge to get all the people who have come to Sweden as asylum seekers into work. In this regard, Magdalena Andersson and the government have no answer. The only thing you offer is grants, grants and grants, and that threatens Sweden's future.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-393	Mr President, I would like to I asked Fredrik Schulte why he was against the education contract, and he told me why he is against the 90-day guarantee. That's not the answer to the question. Does Fredrik Schulte not know the difference between the 90-day guarantee and the training contract? That was a rhetorical question. The training contract and the 90-day guarantee are not the same. The 90-day guarantee is something completely new that we have never tested in Sweden; it is taken from a Danish model. It is about supporting young people who have dropped out of high school so that they can get a way back and be motivated to finish their upper secondary education, while at the same time having the opportunity to work. The idea is to have both carrot and whip in the program. This enables young people to gain work experience and to complete their upper secondary education. In the municipalities where this has been tested before, such as Västerås, there are fantastic examples. There is a difference between Social Democrats and Moderates. We Social Democrats do not want young people to go out of work month after month. We do not want young people to start their adult life in unemployment and sit on the TV sofa and in front of the computer games. That is why we want to pursue an active policy to support and help young people take the important first steps into the labour market. But we saw eight years of moderate government and alliance politics, leaving young people in the wind. We had so high youth unemployment in parts of the country that we received EU funding! So high was youth unemployment in Moderate Sweden. Now the Moderates are extremely critical that we want to get to grips with this and ensure that young people start their adult life in a good and dignified way. The Moderates are against this. I'm afraid I'm not surprised.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-398	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked the Minister for Climate and Environment whether the Minister is sticking to his statement that a new bonus – the malus system should be introduced by the end of the year, and whether – if not – the Minister can provide information as to whether the government will extend the current super-environmental car premium system until the new system is introduced, and how the Minister sees the fact that the emission reduction rate has slowed down since she became the minister responsible and what the Minister intends to take for new initiatives to reduce the emissions of the transport sector. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The starting point has been that the bonus – the Malus system should enter into force as soon as possible. The bonus report – the Malus investigation was submitted to the Government on 29 April 2016. The report proposes that the system should enter into force on 1 January 2018. The government has now sent the report for a referral and this will then be prepared in the usual way. The government intends to introduce a bonus – the Malus system as soon as possible during its term of office. Until a new bonus – the Malus system is in place, it is important to have a super environmental car premium. It is important that all actors have good predictability for the acquisition of new environmental vehicles. As regards the approach to emission reduction rates and initiatives to reduce transport emissions, the Government has made it clear that a fossil-free vehicle fleet is a priority issue and that reducing emissions from the transport sector is central to Sweden's long-term climate goals. The fact that the government is doing a lot in this area is evident not only by the continued preparation of a new bonus – the Malus system but also in other ways, for example through the decided increases in the energy tax on fuels.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your reply from the Minister. Sweden, as is widely known, has very high climate ambitions. Sweden is one of the countries with the highest climate policy targets. This has been true regardless of the government in Sweden, but the climate work took an extra boost during the eight years of the Alliance's government. It is absolutely crucial for us to be able to achieve our high climate targets that we can get a move on the conversion of the vehicle fleet. Of Sweden's total emissions, the transport sector accounts for about one third of total emissions. And out of only the emissions outside the trading sector, i.e. outside the EU ETS, the transport sector accounts for as much as 50%. It goes without saying, Madam President, that the transport sector must, of course, be an important priority for any government that has high ambitions in the field of climate change. Unfortunately, Madam President, we can see that developments are currently worrying. Swedish emissions are not falling at the same rate as before. Last year, Swedish climate emissions fell by only 1 per cent. This is largely due to the fact that the modal shift in the transport sector has slowed down, that last year we received a slightly lower proportion of environmental cars and that emissions from that sector have simply not decreased to the same extent as before. When the Alliance took office in 2006, we inherited one of Europe's absolutely oldest vehicle fleets. Next to Albania, we had the oldest fleet of vehicles. It was a fleet with very fuel-consuming cars and high emissions. But thanks to a determined policy, based on the Alliance's vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, the transition took off. We first got an environmental car boom and then also a super environmental car boom. I am pleased that the current government has chosen to continue to a large extent with the policy of the Alliance. The super environmental car premium is still here. Unfortunately, however, the government chose to make it 20 000 SEK more expensive to buy a charging hybrid from the end of the year. It has therefore become more expensive to make a climate-smart choice in the car hall, and that is regrettable. But the answer from the government has always been: Soon we will replace the supermilj island car premium with a new bonus – the Malus system. The decision has been that that system will enter into force on 1 January 2017. Now an investigation proposal has finally arrived. I am largely critical of this, Madam President; it needs to be reworked. I also note that the proposal is proposed to enter into force only on 1 January 2018. Therefore, my question to the Minister was: will the current super-environmental car premium, today's system, be extended pending the introduction of the bonus-malus system? The Minister said in his reply that it is important that the industry is informed and that there is a super environmental car premium pending the new system. But is it today's rules that will or will they change? Is it the Government's ambition to rush through the proposal that is on the table, or does it have the ambition to try to put forward a proposal that more rewards the environmental and climate best cars? Unfortunately, lying proposals run the risk of giving a completely one-sided premium for pure electric cars or charging cars. We also need to look at the great climate benefits of biofuels.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-412	Madam President, I would like I fully share Johan Hultberg's view that we need a cleaner fleet of vehicles than we have in Sweden today. It is about passenger cars, it is about buses and it is also about lorries. It is therefore important to pursue an active policy. And it's about working with several different control instruments. It is important to work with carrots, but it is also important to work with whips. Here the government has a policy that stimulates the purchase of good and energy-efficient vehicles, which do not emit as much carbon dioxide, but we have also worked with the instrument to raise taxes in order to thus also drive forward more climate-smart alternatives. Of course, something that is important is that we continue to work, and here we continue to work on the bonus – the malus system that exists. Now the investigation has just arrived and has been sent for a referral. The government will then decide how we will proceed with the proposals. We are also working on an electric bus premium, which was in last autumn's budget. It is important to stimulate more use of electric buses. But we are also working on a road wear charge, where the idea is to get better control over truck traffic in the country and to get more goods to be able to move from truck to boat or rail. As far as the super-environmental car premium is concerned, we come up with a final statement in connection with the autumn budget. But we are clear that a premium is needed before the bonus-malus system is in place.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-417	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your supplementary answer. I note that results play a role, and during the eight years of the Alliance results were delivered. As far as climate policy is concerned, the overall rate of emission reduction nearly doubled, and we pursued a cost-effective climate policy that enabled us to reconcile high ambitions and rapidly decreasing emissions with strong economic development. This is the only way that Sweden can take on the role of a pioneer country. I note that this government, too, says it wants to pursue a policy that makes Sweden a climate policy leader. Unfortunately, however, Sweden is at risk of being a deterrent when it comes to a very aggressive tax policy that makes it more expensive to hire, which makes it less profitable to work and also increases all taxes on the environment and climate. What the Alliance did was raise some environmental taxes. Among other things, we increased the tax on diesel. At the same time, we made a tax shift and reduced taxes on what I hope we want more, namely labour. We want more people to get into work, more to go from part-time to full-time and so on. Of the other proposals mentioned by the Minister in his reply, the electricity bus premium is hardly a particularly effective support system. We see that public procurement is a powerful tool in the conversion of the bus fleet and that it has led to many biogas buses, for example. One-sidedly having an electric bus premium is a rather costly way of trying to support that technology. Kilometer tax is not a tax on emissions but just a kilometre tax. It's a tax from a distance. No matter how much tax you have from a distance, they will not disappear in Sweden, which is a large and elongated country. Rather, we need to work on creating a rail system that is more robust and capable of receiving increased freight transport. Let us remember that the vast majority of journeys by truck are short. The railway does not go right up to either mine or the Finance Minister's Konsum- or Ica shop or all the way out to the hut in the forest. The truck has an important role to play, and it is important to produce more biofuels. I hope that the government will be able to give a long-term message about the systems we will have in the future to reward biofuels in the long term. Now we have a system of tax reductions that only lasts a few more years. This means that there is no investment climate that needs to exist in order for companies to dare to invest hundreds of millions, perhaps billions, in new plants to produce today's and tomorrow's biofuels. Long-term information is needed here, but they have so far been absent from the government. The Moderates want to stimulate people to make more climate-smart choices. For example, we make it easier to be in a car pool instead of owning your own car. We want to facilitate more climate-smart freight transport by allowing longer and heavier vehicles, and, as I said, we want long-term conditions to support biofuels. It is vitally important that we support the conversion of the vehicle fleet on the private car side. Unfortunately, the bonus proposal – the malus on the table is not good enough. The impact assessment of the investigation's own proposal states that it will lead to more diesel cars.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-431	Madam President, I would like It is the results that count, says Johan Hultberg. That is an important point. We see that the economy in Sweden is growing faster than in the vast majority of countries with which we compare ourselves. We see an increase in employment and a fall in unemployment and youth unemployment. These are clear and good results that we are seeing in Sweden right now. Johan Hultberg says that we need cost-effective instruments. Many agree that a tax on fuels is a cost-effective and good way of controlling the environment. That is why it is important that we use this instrument, and so does the government. Johan Hultberg thinks an environmental car premium is great but that an electric bus premium is really bad. One can imagine that it may depend on who is the origin of the proposal. As far as the long-term sustainability of biofuels is concerned, it is quite correct that we have a state aid approval from the EU that runs in a few years. So it was under the alliance government and when we entered the Government Office. An alternative system of obligation was sought. However, the Alliance government and we agreed that what was being developed did not turn out to be a good system. We must therefore look further at how we can achieve a more long-term solution. I fully share Johan Hultberg's view that it is important that we find a long-term solution to provide the industry with good and long-term conditions. We have had many and extensive contacts with those responsible in Brussels to try to find a system that is able to cope with the EU acquis and can be sustainable in the long term. This work is going on with great intensity. I think we share the ambition in this regard.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-438	Madam President, I would like It is true that Sweden has strong economic development. It is thanks to eight years of a clear policy for a strong work line that has made it more profitable to work, cheaper to hire and more attractive to start and run a business. Thankfully, these developments are continuing in themselves, but I am concerned that the government's policy is in danger of slowing it down. We're already seeing it. We see, for example, a sad development in the RUT market, where fewer jobs grow and companies disappear as a direct consequence of the policies of the current government. These are high ambitions in the rhetoric of government parties, but since Magdalena Andersson became Minister of Finance and the Green Party entered the government it has become more expensive to refuel renewable fuels. It has become more expensive to buy a super-environmental car in the form of a charging hybrid, and it has become less economically attractive to choose an environmental car as a company car. Behind the beautiful words, the government is thus delivering a different policy. I do not think that a premium for buses that will be sufficient for some fifty buses will be the decisive factor. Rather, we need to let the purchasers choose whether they want electricity or biogas or what they want and then focus on how we can change the private car and create a better functioning transport system in general. I welcome the fact that the government says it is pushing for long-term conditions for the biofuels market and creating an investment climate there. Should I interpret the Minister's answer as being a duty of quota or a duty of reduction that the government now sees before it? Or is the continued tax exemption that is the government's hope for the future?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-443	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out, for the record, that the number of RUT companies has decreased slightly. On the other hand, the extent of RUT use has not decreased, and here we see a continued positive development in the form of increased turnover in the industry. It is good that we share the view that we want long-term conditions for biofuels. This is where we've been working on two tracks. A track is mandatory. We have also tried to see if we can get approval of the reduction without it having to be seen as state aid. It is another track that we have tried to work on in relation to Brussels. As long as it is seen as state aid, we live in that world that we have state aid approved for a number of years to come, and it is not the long-term rules that we want to see. Then we can try to have a reduction that is approved as not a state aid or you can have a compulsory obligation. This is what we are working on. It is important that we have a long-term sustainable system and that we share that ambition. However, I am a little surprised that the Moderates who are involved in resetting the fleet of vehicles choose not to work with what is usually considered the most effective instrument, namely the increased cost of using fossil fuels. Here we disagree.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-448	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me how I feel that the negative effects of the tax increases affect public finances. After the previous government's terms of office, we saw a situation of large government deficits, unemployment that has been sustained at high levels and declining performance in primary school. In order to implement urgent efforts that could, among other things, contribute to increased employment and reduced unemployment, the tax was required to be increased. I am well aware that taxes can affect people's behaviour. However, both the size and timing of possible effects are very uncertain. Moreover, it is not only tax collection that affects the labour market and labour supply, but also tax revenue. It is therefore misleading to assess the policy on the basis of individual financing measures. Policy must be seen in its entirety. Continued investment in welfare is necessary for both women and men to have the opportunity to work full-time. Better care for the elderly and higher quality childcare facilities are not only a matter of safe old age and childhood, but can also reduce the number of people who stop working or go down working hours to care for someone close to them. Investments in, for example, increased housing and infrastructure can also have a positive impact on labour market developments. I would also like to emphasise that there has been no change in the way the budgetary impact is calculated and reported since the last parliamentary term. The budgetary effects presented in the budget are static, in the same way as before. On the other hand, the calculations of public financial savings make an overall assessment of the impact of government policies.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-453	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. I thought I'd start with a classic. You raise the tax on alcohol to make people drink less. The tax on tobacco is being increased in order for people to smoke less. The government also increases taxes on petrol and diesel for people and companies to drive less. These behavioral changes are expected coldly. However, when it comes to higher taxes on labour, the government does not expect it to work less. Glatt increases taxes for those who work: reduced job tax deductions, more paying government income tax and special wage tax for the elderly. Although it pays less to work with the government's tax increase policy, people will continue to work just as much as before. That's what the government thinks. And that's what they're starting from in their calculations. But, Madam President, the experts disagree. In its latest report, the Council of Finance Ministers is historically critical of the calculations made by the Minister of Finance. The Council notes, among other things, that if statically calculated revenue increases in tax increases are used for sustained expenditure increases, the budget risks being underfunded in the long term. In ordinary Swedish it means that because it pays less to work, people will work less. Then the government will get less money, and plus and minus will therefore not go together. For a long time now, we have a tradition of being very careful to include things that we believe will have a positive impact on public finances. That is very wise, and it is an important principle to stick to. However, a precautionary principle should also prevail in the other direction. It also emphasises the Council of Finance Policy. If you make changes that could lead to less money being raised to the state, you should count on it. This is the background to my question to the Minister for Finance: how does she estimate the negative effects of tax increases on the state's finances? In his reply to me, the Minister for Finance refers to uncertainty and to the whole. It is, of course, not an easy task, as the Minister for Finance points out, to count on the negative effects of the tax increases. I have every respect for that. But the Council of Finance Ministers has managed to make such calculations, and so should the Ministry of Finance. Ambition and awareness are important. Nor is the uncertainty of the calculations unique to these particular calculations, and that is no excuse for not doing so. "We believe that it is clearly unsatisfactory that the Government does not report the behavioural effects of individual proposals and does not intend to do so in the future," says the Council of Finance Policy, among other things. The Council criticised the government already for the previous budget. Now you make the same mistake again. What about the autumn budget? Will the Minister of Finance report on the behavioural effects of individual proposals, as recommended by the Council of Finance Policy?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-463	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard started with a classic, namely that if you want people to work, you should not have any tax on labour. I have to ask Maria Stenergard: why is it that some of the countries in the world with the highest employment rates are also the countries with the highest taxes on labour? Maria Stenergard believes that we should account for the employment effects of individual measures. We will not do that because such calculations are very uncertain and there is a risk of misleading the Swedish people by showing a precision in this that does not exist. Let me give you an example: when the Alliance Government launched the reduced restaurant VAT, the then Minister of Economic Affairs, Maud Olofsson, said that it would give 19 000 jobs. That was the first estimate: 19,000 jobs through reduced restaurant VAT. The following year she had to speak with the Minister for Finance. By then, the 19,000 would have dropped to 8,000 jobs. Then they had to revise it down, and the next figure that came from the previous alliance government was 3,500 jobs. When the Institute of Economics tried to evaluate the reform, it was concluded that it could provide as little as 1,000 jobs. I have to ask Maria Malmer Stenergard: Given that there can be effects ranging from 1 000 to 19 000 – is it really appropriate to present estimates that are uncertain in this way? We have made the assessment that it is better to make an overall assessment of government policies and make a qualitative analysis of the overall impact. It is important to point out that we are making static calculations in the budget. I think it's right and proper, and the Alliance thought it was right and proper when they were in government. For example, they did not make estimates of the impact of the removal of people from health insurance and the reduction of the unemployment benefit on municipalities, which have a deterioration in the economy as the cost of social security benefits increases. It did not state the alliance government, so I assume that it was at least thought it was good when you were in a government position. But maybe you've changed your mind in opposition. What do I know?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-468	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance put words in my mouth that I have never ever said. I didn't say you shouldn't have taxes on work. What I said was that when you introduce harmful taxes you have to be prepared to calculate the effects of them, that is to say you have to be prepared for the taxes you raise not to lead to the tax revenue you have planned. This is also the view of the experts that consideration must be given. But the Minister for Finance is very clear that she will not follow their advice. I find that regrettable. More than 1 million employees receive increased income tax when the government is allowed to decide. For a family with two adult middle-income earners who use ROT deductions and drive a car, the government's tax increases will cost about SEK 15,000 per year. Increased taxes, of course, affect the motivation to work and raise the thresholds into the labour market. This is particularly serious as they are combined with highly developed benefit systems that reduce the driving forces to move from grants to work. According to the Institute of Economic Development, the government's reforms lead to a reduction in labour force participation of at least 15,000 people. Sweden has now received the highest marginal taxes in the West. It's not a competition you want to win. It strikes at rigour and education. Only the marginal tax increase resulting from the reduced job tax credit is expected to lead to a reduction in working hours corresponding to just over 3 000 full-time workers. According to the Financial Policy Council's estimates, the tax increase leads to 2 billion less in the treasury than expected by the government. It may be uncertain calculations, but it still feels more reasonable to make some kind of calculations than to do none at all. If we look at the change in the stratum of government income tax, we are going back on it with 100 million. The simple explanation is that people feel that it does not pay to work. You adapt faster than the government seems to think. When it doesn't feel profitable to take an extra on-call pass, you don't, and the state misses out on income – it's that simple. The Minister of Finance must count on that. It's serious that she doesn't. Madam President, I would like In his reply to me, the Minister for Finance says that the way the government calculates does not differ from that of the alliance government, that is, they still use static calculations. As I've been into before, it's wise and careful to do this when you think that changes will give more clair in the checkout. However, it is not wise or prudent to do so when changes are expected to lead to less cleavage in the checkout. The difference between this government and the former is that we never increased taxes on labour. We reduced taxes on labour and yet increased tax revenues. Because, once again, when it pays to work, people work more. If we look at the total, the tax increases will not strengthen the budget, says the Council of Finance Policy. They conclude by stating that their calculations are indicative of a likely overestimation of the scope for reform created by tax increases. In pure Swedish: The government has committed reform space that it will not have. What does the Minister of Finance intend to do about it? Is she going to borrow even more than she already does, even though we're in the middle of a boom? Or is she thinking of cutting back on welfare? No matter which way she chooses to go, the bill will go to the households. It is a bill characterized by ideology rather than by reason and concern for the economy. It's a bill that households would never have to take.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-478	Madam President, I would like If Maria Malmer Stenergard does not think that taxes on labour are wrong, she believes that it is wrong to increase taxes on labour and that it is wrong to increase marginal taxes. I note that the countries in the world with the highest marginal tax rates are also the countries with the highest employment rates. Then Maria Malmer Stenergard will be happy to answer how it can be if it is so dangerous with high marginal taxes. The truth is that you cannot just look at the tax, although I know that Moderates are extremely busy with taxes, because there is another side of tax revenue, and that is what you use the money for. If the money is used to enable more people to learn and to provide childcare and care for the elderly, you can have a high tax charge while at the same time having a high employment rate. This is usually called the Nordic welfare model or even the Swedish model. Turns out it works pretty well. If Maria Stenergard seriously believes that the marginal taxes we have are so damaging, how is it that the tax was reduced by 140 billion but did nothing about the highest marginal tax rate? If you believe that you do not get any money at the highest marginal tax rate, you should well reasonably reduce it, especially if you are engaged in tax-merger packages of 140 billion. Answer that.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-482	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance will come back to what she intends to use the money for. Then I wonder: What money? Many of these billions that she has already counted in her calculations says the Council of Finance Ministers will never benefit her. So how will the Minister of Finance deal with the experts? She dismisses these very easily. I think it is serious when the Finance Minister completely ignores what the expertise says. The experts say that all the billions that she has counted into the reform space will not come in. How will she handle it? Will she borrow more or will she cut back on welfare? I didn't get an answer to my question. We see a very worrying trend in Swedish fiscal policy since Magdalena Andersson took over responsibility for central government finances. Taxes are being increased and subsidies increased. It has stopped reporting the effects of its own policies because it is known that they are negative. With the stubbornness of a fool, you cling to the belief in future so-called investments. And you count on income that you'll never have. It's a policy that digs holes in the state's wallet. Unfortunately, it is the ordinary households that suffer. Stefan Löfven said on the election of the Social Democrats in 2014: If I get to form a government, I will demand information from every minister and every authority head if a decision means more jobs or not. All proposals should aim to create more jobs. The Minister of Finance's response to Stefan Lövven's demands seems to be to stop presenting the effects of her policy. She does not have to answer the Prime Minister that her tax increases lead to fewer jobs, fewer hours worked, worse conditions for companies and thus worse public finances.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-487	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard is worried about public finances, but Maria Malmer Stenergard can be completely safe. This government will never pursue a similar irresponsible policy of unfunded tax cuts as the previous government. Since we took office, we have shown that we take responsibility for public finances. The deficits have been more than halved, and we are now back to a more sustainable state of public finances. We inherited the biggest deficits since the budgetary adjustment. This was because, year after year, the previous government chose to borrow for major tax cuts. That is not the way to conduct a responsible economic policy. We have changed and are now pursuing a more responsible economic policy and making sure that we take responsibility. It's not that we don't do calculations at the Ministry of Finance. We have the static calculations which are reported in full accordance with the calculation conventions used by the bourgeois alliance government. Then we take into account the behavioral effect of you when we calculate the public finances for the future as has also been done in the past at the Ministry of Finance. So it is not that we are not counting. I note that Maria Stenergard does not answer the question. If you really thought it was free to reduce the tax, why did you choose not to touch the top marginal tax rate when you lowered the tax by 140 billion? This shows that Maria Malmer Stenergard does not really believe in these calculations herself.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-491	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to maintain financially stable and sustainable health insurance and to achieve the Government's target of a nine-day sickness benefit per insured person and year by 2020. In order to reach the target set for sickness benefit and create stability in health insurance, the Government decided on a broad programme of measures for increased health and reduced sick leave in September 2015. The action programme has led to an increased awareness of the seriousness of the issue of sick leave and thereby to an increased mobilisation of the issue. This has helped to slow down the rate of increase in sick leave. In its latest forecast, Försäkringskassan has reduced the sickness benefit rate for 2020 from 12.1 days to 11, 4. The expenditure forecast for sickness benefit and sickness benefit allowances has been written down at the same time. For 2020, the write-down amounts to SEK 5.1 billion. The Social Insurance Agency, employer and health care are the three main actors in the action programme. A large number of measures have been taken to develop the role of these actors in the sick leave process. I would like to mention a few particularly important points. Försäkringskassan has been commissioned to strengthen its health insurance management and a resource supplement of SEK 250 million per year for this work. Försäkringskassan is now working on the basis of an integrated action plan. The Action Plan contains a number of measures to develop and strengthen the Agency's health insurance management. The measures taken are considered to be a contributing factor in the start of the decline in the rate of increase of sickness benefit. The Social Insurance Agency has also been tasked with carrying out wide-ranging information on health insurance. A proposal for a health exchange has recently been referred. The aim is to prevent sick leave and to ensure that sick workers benefit from the measures in the workplace that are needed in each individual case to enable a return to work. At the same time, the social partners have been offered the opportunity to agree on solutions that will credibly reduce sick leave. Presenting the parties such, the government will not proceed with the proposal for health exchange. It is important for the employer to be able to receive support when it is needed at work to reduce absenteeism at the workplace. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency has therefore been commissioned by the Government to evaluate and develop support for employers. The mission is carried out in consultation with employers' representatives. Försäkringskassan has recently presented a plan for a developed cooperation with employers and health care. In addition, the Government has taken measures to ensure the development of skills for occupational health doctors. Resources for municipalities and county councils will be increased by SEK 10 billion annually. That is equivalent to over 10,000 employees. It will be able to contribute to a better working environment and reduced sick leave among staff in school, health care and care. The agreement with SKL on a quality-proof and effective sick leave and rehabilitation process has been the government's most important tool to stimulate quality-enhancing efforts in healthcare. This year's agreement covers SEK 1.5 billion. The development efforts undertaken under the agreement have contributed to a greater recognition of sick leave as part of care and treatment. This includes, for example, the further development of the rehabilitation coordinator function to promote the patient's return to work and training efforts for doctors. My assessment is that we have taken a big step forward in the work to create a well-functioning sick leave process and to achieve the set goal. The rapid increase in sick leave since 2010 has now slowed down. We still have to reverse the trend. This is one of the government's most prioritised issues and the work must not stop; the actions implemented must be followed up and the action programme developed.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Social security is an important part of Swedish welfare, not least because one third of the state's budget consists of health insurance. For the individual and for the employer, insurance must be legitimate, reliable and predictable. The levels of sickness insurance must be balanced so that incentives for the work line are maintained while those who are ill receive a safe sickness benefit. It is desirable that the structure of health insurance should have long-term sustainability over time, regardless of who has the political responsibility in Sweden. I welcome the fact that the government has set a target for the sickness benefit rate. It is good and gives a clear signal to authorities, employers and others to steer towards goals. Just as we were now told in the reply, the Minister for Social Security has presented a plan with the ambition to reach the target of nine days per insured person and year by 2020. It is positive that the worrying increase now seems to have halted to some extent. However, if you look at the projections made by Försäkringskassan, it looks as if the sickness benefit rate will be 11.4 days in 2020 with the measures that exist and at the rate that is now increasing. This means, on the one hand, that the package of measures must be seen over a longer period of time, and, on the other hand, which is interesting, that thanks to the fact that the Social Insurance Agency is now more closely monitoring and helping those who have achieved 90 and 180 days, the effect is already being seen that the increase has slowed down. The parliamentary social security inquiry carried out a thorough work on a number of concrete proposals which have so far been submitted by the government. That is why one of the questions I asked the Minister more than a year ago was what is happening with the investigation. Is the preparation ongoing? When will the Riksdag take a position on some of the proposals? After all, the report of the study contains a number of proposals that could help reverse developments, including the earlier discovery of the need for measures to return to work by introducing health care assessment support that makes it easier to identify sick people who need specific measures in conjunction with the employer at an early stage. It is also a question of flexible sickness benefit in the event of a step-by-step return to work. There I know we have a consensus, and I think it would be very good to get it right as soon as possible. For many people on sick leave, the steps are too high, and the focus should always be on support and help for returning to work based on the individual's ability and needs. But constitutional proposals and an impact assessment are needed. Where is it, and when can we expect Parliament to take a position on the proposals? Sick absence in Sweden has varied over time but the variations have not been explained by the corresponding changes in public health or work environment. That is exactly what we have seen since 2011 when it started to increase again. The same analysis can be made of the major regional differences that we have been debating here in the past and which are completely inexplicable. How can it distinguish so much between Jämtland and Halland, for example? There is a worrying increase in mental illness diagnoses, which naturally raises issues regarding organisation, leadership and the working environment. Does the Minister consider that the lower rates of sick leave in the private sector may be due to organisation and leadership? There are also supplementary questions which I will raise in the next speech.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-512	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, and thank you to the interpellant for raising such an important issue! I agree that we should have as long-term insurance as possible. It must be reliable for the insured and the employer. So I agree with the interpellier that it is a very important question, and it is very important that we get a good insurance policy. But then you can't do things like the Moderates did when they had government power. Minister of Finance Anders Borg moved over 5.5 per cent of the insurance contributions from health insurance and unemployment insurance into the general salary contribution, which is basically a pure tax at the disposal of the Minister for Finance. Such behaviour does not create reliable insurance. They wanted money, reduced taxes on wages and taxed the disease. We must not do that, because it does not create trust in the insured person. It creates no trust in the employer, because very many employers invest very much in their workforce and not least in society. In the previous interpellation debate, taxes were discussed. We collect taxes to invest – invest in the individual and in society. Then you cannot act like you tax the disease, or as you did in the next step: First you tax the sick person, and then you tell the sick person to go to Arbetsförmedlingen after a number of days. The cause of the disease and the reduced working capacity have not disappeared, but you just move the person. You can't do that if you really want a reliable insurance policy. It is very important, Madam President, and I hope that the Moderates have now changed their ideas on how to organise this insurance policy. We can look at what the Moderates did during the eight years they had government power. In principle, all insurance policies were changed. They attacked everything: unemployment insurance, health insurance. They attacked everything that was collective. Employers' contributions for young people up to the age of 25 were even reduced. Everything except a single social security contribution, and that was the general pension contribution. It's the individual fee. It pays each one to himself. The others are general fees. If you are to retain our general insurance, which is the best insurance in the world, you must create reliable insurance, both from the point of view of the insured and from the point of view of the employer. Then you can't move 5.5%, a number of billions. 1 percent was between 13-15 billion. Then you can count how much money the former finance minister Anders Borg got to play with. This does not create reliable insurance!
i-f2b428ebe888f094-521	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp and Jasenko Omanovic, for your contributions to what we all think is a very important issue. The government is working extremely intensively on the issue of sick leave. It is very gratifying to see that the package of measures that the government has spent since it took office to implement now seems to have some effects. Lotta Finstorp referred to the parliamentary social security inquiry and the solid work done by the parties during the years it operated. Some of these proposals are, of course, part of the package of measures that the government is currently implementing. This applies, among other things, to the clear objective but also to several other issues. This may include, for example, the matter of sick leave practices. We will now follow it in a different way. We have placed a much greater emphasis than before on the fact that sick leave should be seen as part of care and treatment. A number of measures have also been taken in this direction. When the government took office in autumn 2014, sickness rates had increased by nearly 55 per cent since 2010. We know from experience that this kind of development takes time to reverse. Nevertheless, I am pleased that we are already seeing some results. For the government, it is about – just as I closed my speech with – ensuring that we continue to implement the broad package of measures that we presented last autumn, and that we now see that it is successful. Just as I finished my last post with, we also see what might need to be further developed in the next step and what it is that is simply waiting around the corner. I would like to mention a few more things that are under way, in addition to the package of measures that we are now working on. This is, among other things, a forthcoming government mission. We look more closely at individual doctors' sick leave patterns and also at what Lotta Finstorp referred to in her post, i.e. a deeper analysis of the regional differences in sick leave patterns around the country. We look at the differences both between regions and between different primary health care units – this in order to get better control. We from the government look forward to returning to this. I would also like to approach the question of further measures taken from the parliamentary social security inquiry. Some elements are already included in the package of measures that the government is now implementing, but after the summer, we will also come back with further elements from the social security inquiry that we believe are important to reinforce the development if we are now looking at low and stable sick leave by 2020. There will then be an opportunity to take a position on these proposals. As far as the private sector is concerned, my answer is brief: Yes, Lotta Finstorp, I believe that both the way in which management issues are dealt with and the way in which the work in parts of the private sector is organised can be important for the public sector as well.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-528	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commenting on what Mr Jasenko said. It cannot be unknown to him what the situation was before 2006 and why the government appointed the Persson investigation. The Alliance government delivered the proposals in the investigation because there were far too many people who were retiring early while the number of sick leave was huge. The last question I had and which the Minister has also answered was that good examples can be found in the private sector because sick leave there is lower. Instead, I would like to ask: why is the government chasing the companies that operate in the areas of health, education and long-term care by providing unclear information about their activities? It should be the other way around. Private employers should be highlighted as good examples where the public sector could look at how to do this. It is about organisation, leadership and participation. Several surveys show that the private employees are more satisfied with their participation in alternative driven operations. There is no self-worth in it, but it must be possible to apply to public activities by having smaller units, that middle managers have fewer employees and so on. What does the Minister think is characteristic of healthy workplaces? We must probably look at healthy workplaces where people are not on sick leave in contact professions, welfare companies and the public sector. What are they doing that is the key to success and that makes people feel good at their workplace? It's not rocket science in any way. These workplaces should be highlighted and looked more closely at. During the spring, I asked the parliamentary investigation service to compare the costs of sick leave in the municipal and county councils sector and the costs in the private sector. The differences are quite large. If the private sector's sick leave were applied to the whole labour market, this would mean a reduction in the cost of health insurance of EUR 2.6 billion per year. The opposite is true of how costs would increase if the rates of sick leave of municipalities and county councils were to apply to the whole labour market. This would mean a total cost increase in health insurance by SEK 8.6 billion per year. It would be interesting to hear the Minister comment on that. I think there is a lot in organisation and leadership. But it is not possible to guess, so it would be very good to get an analysis of how healthy workplaces work and why they are successful in having employees who are well at work. The inflow of the number of sick leave reported is decreasing, in terms of the figures. It is of course pleasing – absolutely. This is happening without co-financing. After all, the Minister has proposed that employers be involved in co-financing the costs of health insurance. The referral deadline was June 7th. Municipalities and employers' organisations have responded, and very few think it is a good idea. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister's thoughts are on the basis of the referral. If you can continue to put pressure on Försäkringskassan and health care to work more optimally – healthy workplaces – there is no need for co-financing.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-537	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Lotta Finstorp that I have said that it is gratifying that we are on the same line. We want it to be a reliable insurance policy. For me as a Member of Parliament, it would be a crime for me – I have been a Member of Parliament and a member of the Social Security Committee for eight years – not to mention what led to nearly 100,000 people being insured. I feel that it would be a violation of the mission that I have had for eight years. That's why I wanted to tell you. Then I really hope that the Moderates realize what the development has been like. When the government of Persson realized that the costs of health insurance were huge, a goal was set to halve them. But it was not said to send a number of people to Arbetsförmedlingen to try to find a job. Instead, efforts were made to make efforts that actually reduced sick leave from 2003. But when the reform of the rehabilitation chain operated in its full force, sickness absence increased again. It was unfortunate and it was a big problem. However, I very much hope that we can now find a common ground in which we can form a pact to obtain long-term and reliable insurance for the insured and for employers.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-541	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your very wise and exciting speech. To be able to answer in the different parts, I want to start with what Lotta Finstorp mentioned about good examples. I certainly do not want to enter into the debate on profit in welfare on this issue. As far as the question of how to organise work is concerned, there are good examples in the private sector – perhaps some consideration, to be honest, as the figures show. But we do have excellent examples on the public side as well. Organisational changes and the abandonment of a traditional way of organising women's dominated workplaces in welfare have a direct impact on health rates. Lotta Finstorp is absolutely right when she says that it is about leadership, about giving the leaders and managers in these operations the opportunity to be managers and leaders. It is about mandates as well as conditions, for example, regarding the size of staff groups. It is about creating participation, confidence in the future and commitment in the workplace. Such examples really need to be highlighted, but we must not just talk about the need to highlight the good examples. We must make sure that we do something too. More needs to be done, not least in the public sector. I would like to mention a worrying development that I have seen. In the past, when I was the Federal President of Vision, more and more activities began to be conducted privately. At first we saw very good effects, for example in health care. But then we saw a tendency to adapt to the way in which public sector activities were organised. This has led to a partial increase in sick leave in those activities, including in the private sector. Although they are lower by comparison, they are still high in relative terms, and we need to do more there. As far as health change is concerned, I must be very clear. Yes, I think we need increased economic drivers for employers when it comes to the long illness. In fact, the proposal we have now drawn up provides for a more equitable distribution of sickness costs. The employers who have low sickness rates and who have been involved in financing the costs of those employers who have had very high sickness rates for a long time will now receive a bonus. It will benefit companies in Sweden. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to something that I find very unfortunate in the debate at the moment. Now we are talking more about the proposal for Strandhäll's sickness tax than about what is actually the problem, namely that we have 200 000 sick leave. The government has extended its hand to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, SKL and the Swedish Employers' Agency and has asked them to come up with proposals to the government for measures that may have the effect that we believe the health change proposal would have. Then we are prepared to refrain from presenting this proposal in the autumn budget. However, if we do not come up with such a proposal, we cannot sit on our hands.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-546	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for an important debate. Jasenko Omanovic says that the increase in the number of cases of illness occurred when the rehabilitation chain was introduced, which sounds strange to me. What we are seeing today is that there is a reduction even among the longer cases of illness due to the fact that Försäkringskassan much more clearly tests the person who is on sick leave and is lifting up every individual at 90 and 180 days. So I think it is rather the opposite. I would like to refer to the co-financing proposal again. It's a very loud tone. One is very worried among private employers but also within SKL, i.e. among municipalities and county councils. Every employer always loses by having employees who are on sick leave. It's never good for production. It's not good for the business at all. I agree with the Minister about bad employers, who are not doing what they are supposed to do in health and safety at work and do not have an organisation that works well and where people are doing well. The problem is that it is really we politicians who are employers in the organisations with the highest number of sick leave. We need to get to grips with this in the country, in municipalities and county councils where the council is an employer, and really look at how to work in the organisation. Punishing through financial incentives is not the way forward. At what stage should anyone looking for a job say, yes, it is that I have a long medical history too, in order for employers to get financial health change? I think it is questionable from the point of view of integrity.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-550	Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few brief things. With regard to the trials at the 90- and 180-day limits, I think I understood what Jasenko Omanovic was after, and that is also my picture. We have debated this many times, Lotta Finstorp. It is about what is actually effective. Between 2010 and 2014, even though the rehabilitation chain was in place, we were able to see very clearly how the trials at the early deadlines fell out and how people were insured at the later time limit, where no trial was carried out but there was just an out insurance policy. What we are now trying to do together with Försäkringskassan is to strengthen the test but also to ensure that you really get action at the early deadlines. You're not just supposed to go out, you're supposed to come back and get the support you want. I think that is incredibly important to press. We also saw how the tests at the early deadlines fell between 2010 and 2014. We are now looking at this in the Government Office and intend to come back, probably at the beginning of next year, with suggestions on how to ensure the quality of the rehabilitation efforts to be introduced. It turns out this seems to be working. Now we just have to follow it closely, so that we really see that people get the support they want. As far as health change is concerned, I respect the fact that one may disagree. I say again that my hand is extended to the social partners. We are happy to have further dialogue with them on how we can find measures that they think would be better to break the trend with health rates. Instead of campaigning for Strandhäll's sickness tax, devote yourself to finding those solutions!
i-f2b428ebe888f094-554	Madam President, I would like Gunilla Nordgren has asked me if I am prepared to work to ensure that the application of the housing allowance rules is reviewed and adapted as soon as possible to the situations that exist in many municipalities today. Furthermore, Gunilla Nordgren asks me how I see the fact that, because of the current application of the rules, housing allowance cannot be paid in these cases and, instead, it needs to be paid supply aid, this means a shift in costs from the State to the municipalities. Gunilla Nordgrens's question relates in particular to the situation of young newcomers who, after receiving a residence permit and a municipal placement and leaving their place of residence in, for example, HVB or family homes, need their own home, and in particular the extent to which they can apply for housing allowance. Housing allowance can currently be provided for families with children and for young people aged 18 to 29, and for this group the housing allowance for young people is the current one. Gunilla Nordgren believes that the regulation today prevents two single people from sharing an apartment and at the same time being entitled to housing allowance. Two or more households can already share a dwelling. Subsidies for housing costs can then be provided to each household. The housing allowance is means-tested, and there are rules on, among other things, the size of both housing and housing costs, as well as income and population records, which can mean that in practice no housing allowance can be paid. Housing allowance is one of the benefits targeted at households with relatively low income relative to livelihoods. For those who are still unable to make it financially, it is possible to contact the municipality and apply for supply support. It is then up to social services to make an individual assessment. Housing allowance is a family economic needs-tested benefit that is accurate when it comes to reaching households with relatively low income relative to the dependency burden. This does not mean that there are not some parts of the regulatory framework that can be better adapted to the current situation in terms of both housing and household constellation. The Government also addressed in the spring budget proposal the need to adapt housing allowance and maintenance support to the current situation and intends to return to the issue.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-560	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. I am only partly satisfied with that and would like some clarification. The background to my interpellation is that there is a great deal of work going on in the municipalities to arrange housing for many young people who do not have a home and many new arrivals who receive a residence permit. Many of the new arrivals are so - called single households, many of which are unaccompanied children. When these people become adults in the sense of the law, the urgent problem remains to arrange a home. I think we're all aware of that. It is also not a long-term construction to just build one-bedroom apartments. It's both expensive and not long-term real. It will be an option to build only pavilions and one-bedroom apartments. Nor does it improve integration. One way to arrange housing for several people is to rent out a three-bedroom, three-room and kitchen, where they live in a separate room and share a living room and kitchen. Abroad, many students and also young people live in cities where rents are even worse than in Stockholm. They share an apartment, and that's no problem. The reason for my question is taken from reality. The Social Insurance Agency has rejected this type of application for housing allowance. The answer also says that two or more households can share a dwelling. There could be two families renting half a house each, and so on. I am fully aware of that. But I am talking here about single households. In the answer, the Minister also says how the housing allowance works, that it is dependent on income and so on. So can I. That wasn't my question either. For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask you a few questions. Does the Minister think that, as the answer says, two or more households can already share a cost also applies to single households? I will then go home and tell them, and they will be very happy at home. Then it is the application of Försäkringskassan that is the problem. It is also stated in the reply that for those who do not manage financially, there is the possibility of applying for supply aid. One of my questions was that housing allowance should be paid as a subsistence allowance. This is to shift the cost from the central government to the municipalities, as housing allowances are paid by the central government and the supply support by the municipalities. The Minister says that this should not be a problem. But I've taken the examples out of reality. I look forward to receiving an answer to this. It is also good that the government wants to come back to the issue of adapting the housing allowance – the maintenance allowance has nothing to do with this – to the current situation and that it intends to return to the issue. What does that mean? When, where and how are you going to do that?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-569	Madam President, I would like Tac k, Gunilla Nordgren, for the question! It's up to date. In essence, I believe that we are not very divided. As the regulations currently stand, you are right in that if you are living with someone, you cannot receive housing allowance. In such cases, it must be a shared apartment in that it counts as two households, i.e. that both households are on the contract. In this case, you can apply for housing allowance according to the current regulations. What I referred to when it comes to subsistence support is that the housing allowance has never worked in the way that it covers 100% of the housing cost. I hear at Gunilla Nordgren when she does her post that she has good control of it. It is in many different ways perhaps one of the more complex contributions we have, as the great demand for repayments shows us, for example. It is also reimbursements that are required families that have a very low economic standard from the beginning and that can be very noticeable. For example, if we look at families with children receiving housing allowance, it is about 32% of those who have to apply for income support in one year to make it. They are generally very financially vulnerable individuals. What I refer to when I point out that the government intends to return is part of those things. That's what Gunilla Nordgren addresses with things happening in the outside world, and things have happened in Sweden. But things have also happened in Sweden when it comes to our view of what a family looks like and what family constellations look like. This is an urgent matter for the government to further analyse. It is also a question of considering taking appropriate measures to respond to the developments that we have now seen. But we're not really there today. The government will work on this. It is announced in the spring bill, and we will return. I'll stay there for a while.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-575	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We agree that this is a problem, and the municipalities are in this problem here and now. The municipal real estate companies are trying to rebuild. I'm the vice-chairman of a real estate company myself. We can't just build pavilions and single roomers. It will be terrible, and it will not improve integration either. The question is whether, with no clarification, you can say that you can have two contracts for an apartment. Because these people can't stand on the same. It may be that you do not have to wait for the entire housing allowance to be renewed. However, it is already possible to clarify to Försäkringskassan and make it easier for municipalities through regulations, regulatory letters or anything else. That's exactly what the minister says. We are both aware of where the problem lies. The municipalities are trying to do everything they can. It will have to be that people live in these three-bedrooms and share. They already do today. There's no other option, otherwise it'll be the gym. But then municipalities will have to pay subsistence support for that part too. They would not have had to do so if the residents had been able to stand on each of their contracts. Maybe there's two guys that both of them are going to study. They are not supposed to have that income, so they should be eligible for a housing allowance. Then there may be supply support that fills it out. It is a better integration if they can live two in a normal residential area and not live in these barracks, pavilions and single roomers. Besides, it's expensive. Maybe ten years from now, there'll be no need for roomiers. Then maybe they've formed a family and all kinds of things. We've had a special situation. Then it says the municipal housing company with a number of apartments that are not adapted to demand, because this may be a hump. In addition to what is said about family constellations, young people can live together. It can also help students if two can share. They can each sign a contract and receive each one of their housing allowance. There is also a problem with the fact that they are not allowed to have more than 60 square metres. If the three-bedroom is 80 square meters, you could say it's 40 plus 40. There are refugee coordinators who cry when they go home from work because they cannot arrange housing because of a rigid system. I wonder if the Minister can do something urgent about this – quickly!
i-f2b428ebe888f094-582	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gunilla Nordgren! I think, as I said, that we do not disagree very much. I appreciate that you share the reality that you are now facing in the municipalities when you are working on housing issues and that you describe how acute you feel that the situation is. What you point to in the conclusion of your post is that this is extremely complex. The housing allowance came in the 1930s. Over the years, different objectives have been set for what the housing allowance should stimulate. For some time, it was just a matter of giving people access to housing. Then it was a matter of reducing overcrowding and that you could compete for the slightly better apartments, even though you didn't have such a high income yourself. That is also what I mean by the fact that we need to look at the issue from the point of view of the reality that we have today to deal with as a government and as a society. I take with me the desire for opportunities to do something more urgent that would facilitate the situation. As Gunilla Nordgren understands, there is even more to look at in a wider perspective. Thank you for your wise speech.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-585	Madam President, I would like It is good that we agree, and it is good if the Minister sees if you can quickly do some partial thing because these are problems that exist today. As you now look over and adapt the system to the current situation, you should also bear in mind that it is not just about different family constellations, but that there may also be two completely individual people who say that they can share an apartment. Then you have to make sure it works. I sat on the Social Security Committee during the last parliamentary term and worked on family policy, so I am well aware of how housing allowances work. But as it is now, they do not live with reality. The sooner you can do something about it and give that signal to the municipalities so that the refugee coordinators know what to do and the housing companies know what to build, the better. Thank you for a good debate and a positive answer.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-589	Madam President, I would like The same from the Minister for Social Security! I look forward to returning on this issue and thank you for a good debate.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-590	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me what measures I intend to take to curb the presence of unauthorised substances in food supplements and when I expect to be able to present a position on the issue of setting up an independent national anti-doping organisation. Food supplements are, as is well known, food and are regulated in accordance with food law. No approval or authorisation from the Swedish Food Administration is required to sell food supplements in Sweden. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer that the products are safe to use and comply with the requirements of food law. I share the concerns expressed by the interpeller with regard to unauthorised substances in food supplements. The Government has given the Swedish Food Administration two assignments that have bearings in this control area. In the first assignment, the Food Safety Agency for Food that constitutes or is likely to pose a risk to human health shall investigate and develop arrangements for increased information exchange and cooperation between control authorities. In the second assignment, the Swedish Food Safety Agency will work towards effective control of online trade in food with a particular focus on online trade in food supplements. I look forward to hearing the Food and Agriculture Administration's reports. With regard to the question of the establishment of an independent national anti-doping organisation, I have indicated in a reply earlier this spring that the matter is still being prepared in the Government Office and that further consideration needs to be given before the question can be answered.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-594	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As I said, I have asked the Minister what measures he intends to take to curb the presence of unauthorised substances in food supplements. There are now enormous shortcomings in the food supplements industry and also a weakness in the regulation and interaction between the various authorities. I think it is positive that we share the concerns. As it sounds, the Minister has also had the major problems that have been described for himself. It is really about five different authorities, or four authorities and one municipality, that should operate in this with a shared responsibility. We have the Swedish Food Safety Agency, which regulates by law a high level of health protection, and the Environmental and Health Protection Boards, which have the actual supervisory responsibility in the municipalities. We know how strained they are in their work and that they find it difficult to give priority to food supplements and their supervision. We have the Medical Products Agency, which enables the classification of drug-related substances. We have the Swedish Consumer Agency, which acts in misleading marketing. Add to this the Public Health Authority, which is responsible for supervising the prohibition of certain dangerous goods. This is complex, and I am concerned that the two measures proposed by the Minister for Food and Rural Development are not sufficient. It is important that we raise our eyes outside the elite sport and the professional part. According to SVT, 30 000 people do drugs regularly. This does not happen mainly in elite sports, but we see the high frequency of the gym visitors. Much of this, of course, comes from the body fixation that we see getting stronger in society. It all goes down in the ages. We see descriptions that athletics trainers for children and young people think that children should eat supplements. Regarding the body fixation, we were able to read today about a plastic game in one of the evening newspapers. Thus, children and young people can transform the body and face through a game and so on. Many people take these preparations unconsciously because the content declaration is not as clear as it should be. One study in Cologne found that 15 percent of the dietary supplements examined contained illicit substances — even druglike substances. That is of course worrying. However, it is only 10% of the 3 000 tests that are being carried out that land in the very group that I am talking about now. There is also a great number of darkness. In 2011, the Alliance Government launched an investigation called Antidoping Sweden – A new way to work against doping. It also proposed a national independent anti-doping organisation or a centre. I have asked the Minister in the past about this, and I want even more clarification than in the interpellation response about when the Minister intends to open or introduce this independent doping organisation.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-600	Madam President, I would like The problem raised by Saila Quicklund is that there are several authorities involved and that it is a complex way of working that needs to be done to overcome the problem. This is the reason for the task that the Swedish Food Safety Agency has been given to develop a warning system with information exchange. If, for example, a municipality detects problems, it should be able to bring them in digitally, and then all the control authorities get part of the problem that has been discovered. This can make it easier not least for small municipalities that have strained resources, just as Saila Quicklund is into. In the case of an independent anti-doping organisation in Sweden, it has indeed been investigated in the past. What became clear when it was referred was that the preparation basis, which was developed, was not sufficient to take a final position. The new General Data Protection Regulation, recently decided within the EU, will be implemented in Swedish law. It is clear from that Regulation that anti-doping in sport is in the public interest. This means, according to EU representatives, that the issue needs to be regulated by EU or national law. The Government has therefore set up an investigation into the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation. This will finish its work by May 2017. Then, hopefully, we will have a better basis for moving on with this issue.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-603	Madam President, I would like Minister! What is the big problem with what we are talking about is that the municipalities are responsible for supervision and that their workloads do not allow them to give priority right now to the control of food supplements. It is also the case that each municipality works in isolation. The Swedish Food Administration cannot go in and rule there, but all the municipalities in the country must act together on a food supplement in order for us to get a ban or similar. This is clearly worrying with the resources available in the municipalities at the moment. It is also worrying that we have sports that escape the state-backed anti-doping programmes. They're the ones who aren't RF-connected. That is why it is so important that we, like Norway and Denmark, introduce a national independent anti-doping organisation. It's really important. Let me mention a few examples of how horrifying it is when it comes to food supplements. The Finnish Food Authority produced a report in 2011 – and a lot has happened since then – which examined 43 different food supplements. Only 2 out of 43 met the labelling requirement. 30 out of 43 contained harmful plants. We can then recall that today it is recommended that children and young people take dietary supplements. 28 could cause side effects. 8 were to be classified as medicinal products. That's remarkable. It also shows that it is perhaps a greater problem for public health than we have understood. It is also stated by the Swedish Food Safety Agency that there is a lack of regulation. There is no approval of the Food Administration, as there should be, for this. I think it takes about ten years for a medicine to get on the market, with all the controls that exist. But we have a completely free market as far as food supplements are concerned. That's remarkable. We are the worst in the Nordic countries in this area. It is, as I said, rarely checks on content. And there will only be a ban in the municipality where the control is carried out. That is what the Finnish Food Authority stated in this report. The City of Malmö also carried out a survey. It was done in 2010. 21 out of 85 dietary supplements examined were considered medicinal products and should never be sold. 78% were mislabeled. This is what we see today in big advertisements in the newspapers. It's about quickly getting stronger and burning fat. It also attracts athletes today who want to get quick results from their training. Of course I'm worried about this. I am also concerned about whether we are going to achieve effects with the efforts that the government is now making. I think it sounds thin to give the Swedish Food Administration two assignments that should have bearings in this control area. I think that we need to act much faster and more forcefully precisely because there is a major problem with the municipalities being regulators or supervisors and that we have four other authorities that should act coherently on this. But the Minister will be happy to further develop this and respond to my concerns with his own words.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-608	Madam President, I would like That's exactly what I'm saying. I am very concerned about this development. I can only agree with Mrs Quicklund's description of the problem. However, I think that we are going a very long way with the two tasks we are now giving to the Swedish Food Safety Agency, including the fact that it is possible to coordinate the work of the authorities better precisely through the exchange of information that is taking place. When you see a problem in a municipality, for example, it can be seen by everyone else who is included in this warning system. This will also allow appropriate action to be taken in a number of areas. Then, of course, you should not think that everything solves itself through two assignments to the Swedish Food Administration, but I think you should see it as the beginning of getting to a problem that is complex. It is complex because it affects several different authorities. It also concerns several types of regulation. But I think what we are doing now is a very good start. This applies, in particular, to the issue of increased and improved coordination and the exchange of information.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-610	Madam President, I would like Minister! The minister has been out in different contexts commenting and worried about sedentary sitting and smoking. Here we have a completely unregulated market where children and young people get directly harmful drugs or doping class substances. I find that remarkable. This should speed up the implementation of the tasks that have now been given to the Swedish Food Safety Agency, so that they quickly come up with proposals on how to remedy this. The Customs Department has seized eight times more doping tablets this year than last year. We're talking about 800,000 pills coming in. High risk areas are Asia and Russia, and it is above all online commerce that is the major part. I think this is very serious. Our period of debate is almost over. But I would like to point out again – it will be my contribution to the government and the Minister for Public Health – that I really want us to act forcefully and very quickly on this issue. We have had this debate before, with a written question. I will follow the debate and see how the government is acting on a very important issue for public health.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-613	Madam President, I would like I look forward to continuing to discuss this issue with Saila Quicklund. I am also pleased that the honourable Member is following this matter closely. It is, as I said, a major problem with food supplements. I think we are taking important steps forward with the assignments that have been given to the Swedish Food Administration. Of course, when it comes to doping, it is a terrible development. We see, not least on the basis of the way this has been handled at the highest level internationally, that it is totally unacceptable behaviour which naturally infects the entire sports movement. I am pleased that since we took office in 2014, the government has both increased the funding for anti-doping work and has had a huge focus on what we could do more. Barely a year ago, for example, I visited the WADA headquarters in Canada to hear more about the situation and also to hear their views on what Sweden could do more both nationally and internationally to curb the development that we see. Thank you very much for a good debate.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-617	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that all women and children, no matter where they were born, will have access to equal care. All should be offered good care as needed on equal terms. This is an urgent matter for the government. However, achieving greater equality and gender equality requires a broad and long-term approach to knowledge building, treatment methods and attitudes. The government has taken several measures aimed at promoting more equal care. For example, actions within the framework of a more integrated governance with knowledge and also initiatives in the field of skills supply can contribute to more equal care. We also follow the issue through the results of, among other things, open comparisons. A prerequisite for obtaining more equal care is that additional funds are allocated to care. As of 2017, the Government will provide the local government sector with a permanent contribution of SEK 10 billion per year. In the case of women and children, the government has taken several measures to ensure that they have access to equal care and quality care wherever they were born. During 2015 – 2019, the Government intends to make several efforts to strengthen women's health. The Riksdag has decided that SEK 200 million for 2015 and SEK 400 million for 2016 will be allocated to strengthen maternity care and women's health. In addition, SEK 130 million will be allocated in 2016 to strengthen primary care efforts for women's health. Corresponding initiatives are planned annually until 2019. In December 2015, the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, SKL, reached an agreement on improved maternity care and efforts for women's health. One area specifically identified in the agreement is how health care can better reach women in socio-economically vulnerable areas, as well as maternal care. This may, for example, involve developing the knowledge and treatment of these patients. I would also like to mention that the Government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to carry out, among other things, an in-depth analysis of the outcomes of maternity care for women in Sweden and how different outcomes vary depending on the socio-economic and ethnic affiliation of women. The assignment also includes describing what post-natal care looks like in Sweden today and assessing whether there is a need to develop new knowledge support for post-natal care. The National Board of Health and Welfare will also conduct an in-depth analysis of the report Open comparisons – Equal care 2015 regarding women and their level of education, geographical affiliation in Sweden and place of birth. The state's preparation for medical and social evaluation, SBU, has also been tasked with, among other things, examining methods for reducing the complications and injuries of the giving woman in connection with childbirth and other relevant issues in maternity care related to the health of the giving woman. The assignment was presented on 29 April 2016 and shows that there is a significant lack of evidence. The Finnish National Board of Health and Welfare, SBU, SKL and county councils will form the basis for the government's continued efforts to strengthen the area. In the interpellation Anders W Jonsson mentions that there are shortcomings when it comes to treatment in healthcare. Good treatment in health care is one of the most important factors in developing more equal care. It promotes participation, patient involvement and patient safety. In 2015, the National Board of Health and Welfare published an educational material on treatment and equal opportunities. Finally, I would like to mention the challenges that the current refugee situation has brought to health care. Several assignments have been given to our authorities to support health care in their efforts to offer care to asylum seekers and new arrivals. The National Board of Health and Welfare has carried out a survey of the support for other languages than Swedish in healthcare and dental care in order to make it easier for asylum seekers and newcomers to communicate with healthcare. The Agency has also been tasked with carrying out an in-depth analysis of the possibilities and challenges of healthcare provision to asylum seekers and new arrivals. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare shows, among other things, that although the situation has brought challenges to health care, county councils have managed to respond to the situation through various measures, including new ways of working and organisational changes.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-626	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are probably few politicians who do not highlight the gaps in the area of health as one of the really big challenges in Swedish healthcare. Sweden may be the country in the world that has the smallest gaps, but yet we see that they are far too large and, above all, we know that measures can be taken to reduce the gaps. A partly completely different matter is about the gaps that exist in terms of accessibility to Swedish healthcare. As we know, Swedish healthcare is among the best in the world. The question I am asking is mainly about this care. When you want to fix gaps, there are errors that you can't commit. One mistake is to lie down at a much too abstract level without having made a proper analysis of what the gaps consist of and what measures can be taken. The last time we discussed the issues in this House, it was about the screening of breast cancer. This is a typical example where there is a lack of analysis. There is a problem, that is, that some women do not screen for breast cancer, but because of lack of analysis, measures are being taken that do not affect the outcome at all. One of the most serious and serious gaps in Swedish healthcare is precisely about maternal mortality and infant mortality. Imagine being told: So nice that your wife is pregnant, but you know that since you were born in a country other than the Nordic countries, the risk is seven times that the wife will die in connection with the birth. Or to hear: That's good! Your daughter is expecting her first child, but you do know that since you were born in another country, the risk is five times that the child will die during childbirth. Madam President, I would like It is totally unacceptable that Swedish health care should allow this to continue year after year. This is not new knowledge. This has nothing to do with the influx of new arrivals into Sweden over the past year. There is research that has many years on its back. We know exactly why this is. This is linked to a lack of communication. You don't use an interpreter. You don't master the Swedish language. This is about a lack of understanding of how Swedish healthcare works. Above all, it is a question of a lack of knowledge as to what diseases these women can carry with them from their home country. We also know exactly what can be done about this. Firstly, it is a matter of focusing the problem, that is, it must be possible to read these figures in follow-ups from the National Board of Health and Welfare so that it is possible to see the improvements made in different parts of the country. Secondly, with the help of economic stimulus, it is a question of directing towards the type of measures that have an effect, namely the training of maternal and health care staff, the training of childbirth workers and enabling them to buy simple teaching materials. The Minister's answer was good in many different ways, but it was still a very abstract answer that did not focus on what can be done to reduce this particular health gap. The Minister showed that the National Board of Health and Welfare has been commissioned to produce statistics and open comparisons. What could be done, however, is to monitor developments in this area in the open comparisons. Then you can see what works well in Norrbotten but less well in Västerbotten. Furthermore, the Minister could use a number of hundred million, actually to be used to improve maternity care, to focus on those areas where the differences are so great. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that the statistics are produced and that the money invested in the area is directed to where the gaps are greatest?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-637	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank Anders W Jonsson for the interpellation. This is an important area for the government to increase overall equality in health. We know that we live in a country where health gaps have increased over the last 15 years. For example, there are currently more than five years in life expectancy between a woman with a short education and a woman with a long education. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. This clearly means that a woman is denied five years of her life solely because of her educational background. I am particularly pleased that Anders W Jonsson points out that many of the factors that govern unequal care, which determines what kind of care you receive, are also outside the control of health care. It is about how the education system is designed. It's about what the labour market looks like. It is about the housing situation, and it is about many other factors. That is why the government has not only set itself a goal of closing the unequal health gaps for one generation, but has also set up a Commission on Equal Health to take the broadest of its steps. It's about time after we've known about the problems for a long time. I am also pleased that Anders W Jonsson's question about unequal care focuses precisely on women and children. We will of course look at those who come the worst out of unequal care, but we will also be aware that Swedish welfare is based on general efforts. It is a bottom plate to lift up not least those who have the most difficult and have the greatest needs. That is why I am pleased to belong to a government that has contributed several billion in additional resources to health and health problems, both in targeted appropriations and, above all, in general appropriations that will remain in place year after year. For nothing is more certain than that it is those who are weakest and have the greatest needs to lose when cutting into welfare and prioritising major tax cuts over investments in our common health care. Among other things, the government is currently investing in women's health. As I said in my interpellation response, it is about 400 million SEK in 2016 and as much per year until 2019. They should go precisely to increase the knowledge and awareness, not least, of delivery staff about the problems that exist. I think that in the agreement that the government has reached with the Swedish municipalities and L andsting, and where we point out precisely maternity care specifically but also women's health in general, we address the problems and factors raised by Anders W Jonsson. It is about communication, awareness and increased knowledge of the particular problems that follow for those who have a socio-economically exposed background or come from another country. It is also obvious that the results we will get from the initiative will be followed up, because that is the only way we can actually improve in the future.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-645	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the Minister that this is a serious situation we have in Sweden. We have major health gaps. They have increased in recent years, largely because we have had a great deal of immigration for a number of years. It also affects this. We know that general action is needed. We need to ensure that people get to work and that we have a functioning school. I also fully agree with the Minister that more resources are needed for the Swedish welfare sector. The Minister mentions 10 billion that have been added to the general welfare. They are to be put in relation to the alliance years, when state subsidies increased by the order of 45 billion and when overall it went up to 150 billion more to the local government sector because more people came into work. What is important, however, is not to hide behind the need for general efforts and more money for county councils. We have a specific problem ahead of us, which we are discussing in this interpellation debate, namely that there is a seven times greater risk of a woman born in another country dying at birth. It is also five times more likely that her child will die during childbirth. You cannot hide, you have to think about what we can do here and now – concretely. In fact, Mr. Inistern has in his hand two of the most important tools to influence this. Firstly, it is a matter of ensuring that we have statistics and opportunities to follow up on developments in this area. This has proved to be one of the most effective tools for changing Swedish health care. It is not always about financial resources, but it is at least as often about implementing new ways of working and increasing training efforts. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether he is now prepared to ensure that the National Board of Health and Welfare reports sustainable statistics and monitoring opportunities in this area. It concerns the risk for the newly arrived woman – the woman who was born in another country – to die at birth and the risk for her child to die. This alone will mean that we can focus on this area. My second question to the Minister is about the other tool he has actually acquired, namely a number of hundred million SEK to go out to the Swedish county councils to improve maternity care, maternal health care and women's health care in primary care. Is he prepared to make sure that that money actually goes to fix what I would say is one of the absolutely biggest health gaps we have in Swedish healthcare? These are two concrete questions for the Minister, who has the tools in his hand. Is he prepared to move from words to actions and not just hide behind the Public Health Commission and general measures? Is he prepared to actually focus on the problem?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-652	Madam President, I would like Anders W Jonsson must have listened badly. I began by telling you that general efforts are the basis for further development of welfare. Anders W Jonsson also agrees with that, but he is moving fast on. I wonder whether it is not because the Center Party prioritises major tax cuts over major investments in our common welfare and that he, who is strongly committed to increasing equality in this area, has something to be ashamed of and therefore wants to move on quickly to talking about specific measures. I have spoken about specific measures. As I said, I am glad that the issue has come up, because it gives me a chance to show that the government is taking this issue very seriously. Otherwise, we would not have added the extra funds and made a special agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. It is precisely about how we can improve women's health, what we need to do to increase the level of knowledge among staff, what we need to do to increase the focus on gender equality and equality in Swedish health care and what we need to do especially in order for women from socio-economically vulnerable areas to be able to receive the care they deserve. We do everything Anders W Jonsson asks. I am sure that this will produce great results in the form of a health service that can increasingly live up to the intentions of the Health Act that resources should be allocated according to needs. As far as statistics are concerned, as I said earlier, it goes without saying that we should follow up what we are now doing and be able to evaluate – not least because we are making this big investment for a number of hundred million SEK each year. Taxpayers should be able to know that they get currency for their money. Precisely how the follow-up is to be done and what variables it should be done on is something for the authorities to come up with, but there is nothing unclear in the government's mission or intention that equality and equality should be taken into particular consideration. This applies both in execution when the methods are launched and, of course, in follow-ups and evaluations.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-657	Madam President, I would like This interpellation debate shows the great difference that exists between the Minister for Health's way and my way of looking at a question, namely how to ensure that we get more money for Swedish welfare. The Minister stands for a government that believes that strong tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship provide more tax revenues that can then give more money to Swedish welfare. I think exactly the opposite. We showed during our eight years of alliance governments that we were able to carry out major tax cuts, in the order of 140 billion, while we were able to see that the county and municipal sector in 2014 had in the order of 150 billion more available for welfare investments than they had in 2006. In this way, we have shown that it is not tax increases that lead to more resources for welfare; rather, it can be the opposite. I am pleased with the second part of the interpellation debate. I understand that the Minister is prepared to follow up this health gap in a serious way, namely by ensuring, in informal contact with the National Board of Health and Welfare, that we get instruments that will enable us in Sweden to monitor closely how the gap is to be narrowed. It is not reasonable that the risk of dying at birth should be seven times greater for a foreign-born woman. It is not reasonable that the risk of dying should be five times as great for her children. I assume that the Minister will ensure that the tool is put in place to measure, monitor and see developments. I also hope that the Minister will take the opportunity to ensure that the money that is now set aside to strengthen maternity care and maternal health care does not get out evenly, but actually benefits the most deprived. That is why I am pleased with the outcome of this interpellation debate.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-661	Madam President, I would like On the latter, Anders W Jonsson and I can be in complete agreement. The money should be used to increase equality and gender equality in Swedish healthcare, and it is obvious that this should be evaluated and followed up. As far as the former is concerned, that is to say, the general investment in welfare, we are, as I have said, deeply disagreeing. I think it's a bit overpowering of Anders W Jonsson to stand here and boast about the alliance years. We should remember that the alliance parties in 2006 were elected to bring down unemployment in Sweden. The result when they left in 2014 was a significantly higher unemployment rate. There were far more people living in the so-called alienation. Today we have a situation where, thanks to the strong government policy, not least in the labour market area, we have the lowest youth unemployment since the early 1990s. We probably have the highest number of employees ever employed in this country and a sharp fall in unemployment. It gives us the opportunity to invest money in welfare. We have made the choice not to reduce taxes, which will not lead to any more jobs or fewer unemployed, but instead to invest our common tax money on improved conditions in the municipalities and county councils in order to strengthen the welfare of those who need it most, not least the women and children that this interpellation debate has been about. We will certainly have reason to come back to both how resources are created and how we best use them for the common good but also how we support individual groups in the Swedish healthcare system. Unfortunately, however, our speaking time is now up and I would like once again to thank Anders W. Jonsson for a good debate.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-667	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me whether the government intends to make a decision by amending the regulation on the transfer of collection responsibility to municipalities, even though a majority of Parliament is against such a transfer. If the answer is yes to the question, when does the government intend to make such a decision? For us in Sweden it is obvious that waste can be both a resource and an environmental problem. The aim is to exploit as much as possible the resources available in waste. At the same time, it is important to reduce negative impacts in terms of emissions from landfill and incineration. It is important that recycling is not carried out in such a way that waste containing hazardous substances is spread uncontrollably in new products made from recycled materials. As part of the government's efforts to achieve the environmental quality goal Non-toxic environment, we must have non-toxic and resource-efficient cycles. The Government's ambition was, according to the Government Declaration of October 2014, to localise the collection system in order to make it easier for citizens to increase recycling. The government therefore appointed an investigator (M 2015:A) to propose how the physical responsibility for collecting packaging waste and household recycled paper can be transferred from producers to municipalities. The investigator has stated that such a transfer cannot be carried out effectively without legislative changes. The issue is currently being prepared in the Government Office. It is necessary that this issue be dealt with in such a way as to create an effective and clear system that will help citizens get easier to leave their household waste so that more waste is recovered.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-671	Mr President, I would like to Karolina Skog and I have never debated each other before. But I don't live very far from Malmö, so we are two shows debating. I would like to begin by thanking you for your reply, which I would like to have some clarifications about. The background to my interpellation is that there is some uncertainty as to where in the decision-making chain the collection responsibility for packaging and newspapers is located. I have asked the question and debated it with the former Minister for the Environment but have not really received any answers, so I hope I can have it today. In August 2014, the previous government decided that the collection responsibility for packaging, recycled paper and electrical equipment should remain with the producers. It was also decided to raise recycling targets and that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should exercise national supervision. This means that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will process the collection systems and that the systems will be independently supervised. Then the government set up the investigation that the minister is talking about. It would make proposals not on how the collection responsibility should be transferred to the municipalities. The investigation submitted its report on 31 March this year. After that, a majority in the Riksdag in 2016 has stated in an announcement that it believes that the collection responsibility should remain. I think we agree on the objectives but not on the way there, as so often in politics. We also want to raise recycling targets. I myself have been on Sysav's board for a number of years, and there is much talk about this. You want it to be easy to do the right thing, you want to increase real estate collection and so on. The investigation commissioned an impact assessment by Sweco, which says that it is not really possible to determine whether it is so much better for moving collection responsibility, that it can rather be a redistribution of costs. This is not an easy thing, because it's about a number of recycling stations. SKL made it easy and replied: We can do this through the equalization system. They thought that was good. This is difficult matter. That is why I think that it is not only possible to amend a regulation, that is to say what the government itself can do, especially in view of the fact that Parliament has stated that it is against this. In that case, you have to let it go through the Riksdag. In the answer, the Minister for the Environment says that the investigator has stated that such a transfer cannot be carried out effectively without legislative changes. Yes, but regulations can also be called laws, so I would like an answer to the question: Are you going to go through Parliament, or are you going to make a decision on a very comprehensive matter – it's not just a few small things – in a regulation without asking the Riksdag? The study also states that it can even be more expensive for all parties, for the state and municipalities, and also for authorities and households. You are very unsure about quite a lot; there are quite a lot of questions left in the investigation. That is why I think it is important that we discuss this. I also note that we agree on the objectives, but perhaps we do not agree on the way there, or we do. We shall see that here in the wider debate.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-680	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Gunilla Nordgren for raising an important issue worth discussing. For me and the government, it is obvious that we in Sweden should be able to conclude broad, long-term and clear agreements on how the infrastructure for waste should work. As Gunilla Nordgren says, we agree on the objectives: to increase recycling, to have an effective system that provides good conditions for the industry and, not least, is understandable and clear to the citizens. We share history. We've been on the board of the same waste company. I think we agree that, when we move from municipal policy to government policy, it is important to have a lot of the good in local government policy, which is about looking at issues in practice, finding effective solutions and creating a broad consensus on them for the benefit of citizens. For me, this is an obvious entry into this matter. As you probably know, the basis of the investigation, presented in March, is not complete and comprehensive. There is, among other things, a lack of constitutional text and a solution to the system's financing, so I agree that a number of important issues remain. Maybe I should clarify my interpellation response. When we say that these parts are so large that they cannot be changed without legislative amendment, we mean specific amendment of the law, that is, not changed by regulation. It's important that things get right for once. We have been talking about and debating these issues for so long, and I think they deserve the care and the talks that will give us a clear and stable solution that will last over time.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-684	Mr President, I would like to That was a really positive answer, I think. Waste Sweden, the newspaper publishers and so on wonder whether they should make decisions themselves via a regulation or whether it should go through the Riksdag, so it was a happy and very positive message. I think they appreciate that. If you want to publicize collection responsibility, it's a big deal and a big matter. It is very nice to hear that we agree that there should be long-term rules, and of course we agree on the objectives. The waste hierarchy will come up here tomorrow without debate, because we are so in agreement and have no reservations. We agree on recycling, on prevention and so on. It looks very different in our country. It is not always easy to have collection in old apartment buildings and fit all the compartments. In my community, we will now have eight factions everywhere. It can therefore look different in different parts, for example in sparsely populated areas. That is great, and I hope that we can think across borders and come up with good proposals together on the basis of different experiences so that we can achieve the goal of reducing waste. Waste is also a resource. We're not going to burn it all up. We're going to increase recycling more and more. Well, I guess some of them get burned, but then there's a little bit of heat from it. Waste is a resource, and we will rid nature of it. We are in complete agreement, and I am happy and satisfied with the answer.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-691	Mr President, I would like to The declaration that there is a consensus in the Riksdag to introduce the waste hierarchy into the environmental code is gratifying. This shows the strength of Swedish politics that we can agree to have high ambitions in important environmental issues and to design systems that are stable and clear for both citizens and business. I intend to take this forward with us in the discussions on finding a clear and stable solution that will last over time. A number of questions remain. For me who only a few weeks ago were municipal politicians, it is obvious to have a reasonable tone and talk across party boundaries in order to find a rational system with a high level of ambition and a high level of recycling and that we do the best possible and, as far as possible, see waste as a resource. After our debate today, I have great hope that we will be able to find such a solution.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-695	Mr President, I would like to I would like to enter the debate to underline and support what has emerged from the debate by Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog and Mrs Gunilla Nordgren. Among other things, it is a matter of the parliament's being able to implement the waste hierarchy in the environmental code in agreement. It is a great strength and something that we will take with us into our future work on how we handle waste and recycling. It is also good that we seem to agree that we want an effective and clear system that is simpler for citizens and where recycling is increasing. In this spirit, we need to take with us what has been part of the history of changes in collection responsibility. It has been investigated many times since 1994 when the system was introduced. We must take that as revenue because it has not worked optimally. All of us who represent Sweden's citizens in the Swedish Parliament need to take part in the future handling of this. It was the bourgeois government that last decided to investigate this, and it does not do so unless there are problems that one wants to remedy in order to do something better for the citizens and increase recycling. We also need to have with us that Sweden's municipalities, which are closest to the citizens, are very clear that they want us to make an effort in a good spirit of cooperation to try to find a collection system that is simpler and more understandable to the citizens and that increases recycling. As I said, it is important to underline what the Minister for the Environment and Gunilla Nordgren from the Moderates have said in the debate and to take it with us for the future. Not least for us Social Democrats, it is very important that we get an order in place that will be long-term, effective and clear and that will make it easier for the citizens and increase recycling.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-701	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we agree and, above all, I have finally received an answer. In the answers I received from the former Minister for the Environment, there was talk of a regulation. For me, this is a great step forward, and it would rather take time. When the previous government decided to retain the collection responsibility as it was but make some improvements, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was tasked with developing fee systems and so on. But after their interim report, the government decided to remove packaging and recycled paper from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's commission. Thus, even the regulations that were made in 2014 have failed because it was removed. One could then understand that because they did so, they thought to decide something else, although they knew that a majority in the Riksdag was against. This is great. Perhaps now we can come to an agreement too, because otherwise the majority will remain. As Matilda Ernkrans says, we should have high ambitions. It should be clear and effective. Of course there is potential for improvement; there is that with everything. You should review it and find a better order, but the investigation itself says that it is difficult to assess what the proposal means. The investigation itself is also uncertain. This also applies to the impact assessment. There may not have to be another full investigation, but there is quite a lot left to do in this investigation. Thank you for a good first debate. I am very pleased that the answer is that it should be decided as a law in Parliament.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-709	Mr President, I would like to It was nice to make a debut in this House when Swedish politics shows up from its good side. We have common clear objectives. Incorporating the waste hierarchy into legislation is a high level of ambition. Waste should be seen as a resource in Sweden, and we will make the best possible of this resource. We shall gradually raise the level of ambition, and that requires a stable regulatory framework and infrastructure for this. Not least, it requires understanding for the citizens. We have a situation where the Riksdag agrees on the waste hierarchy and where Sweden's municipalities agree widely politically that they want to take greater responsibility in the matter. I am therefore very optimistic that we will be able to find a solution that benefits environmental policy and our ability to achieve the national environmental objectives, which benefit Swedish industry that is successful in recycling and which, not least, benefits citizens who will be able to do the right thing. The Swedes expect a functioning waste system that is environmentally correct and that is also being developed.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-713	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me how it is ensured that, in the individual case, the protection of the beach is such a public interest as to justify a restriction on the use of land. Gunilla Nordgren refers here to the form of government. Gunilla Nordgren has also asked me if I am willing to work to improve dialogue between the parties so that there is just a dialogue, which she clarifies is a more equal process between the parties where decisions are not only made through a announcement in the Post and Home Newspapers. The Swedish beach protection is unique in an international perspective together with the right of public access. Strand protection rules aim to create the conditions for public access to nature experiences and for the conservation of biodiversity in coastal areas. The beach zone is also particularly important for biodiversity. At the same time, there are some possibilities in the rules to promote rural development and local decision-making. The general beach protection covers the land and water area next to 100 metres from the shoreline at normal mean water level. It is possible to extend a beach protection area beyond 100 metres from the shoreline, according to current regulations up to 300 metres. It is the County Administrative Board that decides on extended beach protection. The 2009 amendment to the beach protection rules tightened the requirement to extend a beach protection area. Now it can only happen if it is necessary to ensure one of the purposes of beach protection, i.e. to secure long-term conditions for public access to beach areas under public law or to preserve good living conditions for terrestrial and aquatic animal and plant life. In the context of the 2009 amendment, a transitional provision was also introduced whereby any decision to extend a beach protection area made on the basis of earlier provisions expired from 1 January 2015. The purpose of the transitional arrangements was to initiate a review of the extended coastal protection areas in order to better adapt them to the two objectives of beach protection. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has carried out an analysis of the results of the county boards' review. For the country as a whole, areas have increased beach protection both on land and in water. In addition, most of the extended beach protection after the review overlaps with areas already covered by extended beach protection in the past. The County Administrative Board has an obligation to carry out an examination of interests in each case concerning extended beach protection, taking into account individual interests. A limitation of the individual's rights may not go beyond what is necessary to satisfy the purpose of the protection. In order to ensure consultation, the County Administrative Board must give the relevant landowners and rightholders the opportunity to express their views on a proposal for extension before a decision on extended beach protection. This must therefore be done before the county administrative board takes the final decision, and the time for the opportunity to give an opinion may not be set less than one month. Stakeholders have been given the opportunity to speak at an early stage of the process through such an exercise. When the final decision on enlargement is subsequently announced, it is sufficient that the decision be announced. The fact that the county administrative boards' review and decision on extended beach protection comply with the requirements for consultation and assessment of interests is of great importance to the government.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-722	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I asked the question because there is a great deal of information about bullying at the county boards, not least in our part of the country. You don't make eyesight. You have very wide brushes. You draw up a map, and it's not always true. I have practical cases. You point out an area, and the landowner says: Can't we gather a few and go out and see where it's particularly sensitive? But you don't. I usually take examples from reality. That's how it's done. Then comes a decision to be announced in Post- och Inrikes Tidningar. I think that's a little out of date, because it's not like you read it. It is stated in the Service Act that the announcement should be made if it is a lot of landowners, if it is stakeholders who stay away or if it is too hard to notify everyone. But in the cases that I'm thinking of, maybe there's four or five landowners we're talking about. And yet you can't come out and talk. That is why I refer to the form of government. You have to protect, but then you have to get compensation. In the environmental code there is in itself a right not to have to pay compensation, but it should in any case be proportionate, in other words according to the principle of proportionality. It's supposed to be rhyme and reason. There are also other examples that may not have to do with the protection of the beach. A forest owner was not allowed to fell for finding bomb - wall claws — what they now look like — on his property. Then he won't get any compensation, but he can't kill. Then you start thinking: Where does the individual ownership go? It's true that they get at least a month to answer. But then the decision comes, and then it is only to appeal to the government that applies. It costs money, because they get to hire lawyers and others to do this-- it's hard matter for the landowners. I think it would have been nicer to have another process. You might say: Here it's okay to increase to 300, but maybe it doesn't have to be around everyone. Maybe you shouldn't define what a stream is. We have examples where there is an old stream that is two meters wide with reeds everywhere, and then it is still 300 meters. Where is proportionality? We agree that it may need protection. We need diversity. I, too, think that the right of public access is a good thing. Again, we agree on certain grounds, but I think the approach is challenging. It feels like the County Administrative Board thinks the landowners are going to build and behave anyway. They have often cared for their land for a number of years and, of course, take care of it. It would have been nicer to have a slightly better dialogue on the matter.
i-56YAqhAcCH4C5xGRbC3CCe	Mr President, I would like to Welcome to this Chamber, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog! I was also going to give a picture of reality, of Anna-Greta-Greta, one of my political role models. I have a newspaper clipping at home on the fridge where she sits borderle over a locked gate with a sign on which it says That gate, just where the beach began, Anna-Greta-Greta climbed over every morning on her way down to the beach from her house. She'd gone the same way since she was a kid. But the gate and sign that cut off the villagers' path down to the water was new. And Anna-Greta-Greta was furious. Not only did she climb, but she reported the owner, collected signatures, and ended up in the paper. Our everyman's rights and our beach shelter are not something we should mess with. It is both a question of justice and a question of nature conservation,' said Anna-Greta-Greta in the article. As a popular partyist, she had been involved in these matters all her life. She explained to me even when I was little how important it is that the beaches are everyone's. We traveled together in Europe, and she showed me the lakes where the houses and private beaches lay like a string of pearls all around the lake. Nowhere was it possible to get down to the water. Nowhere could we as a visitor take a dip in the hot summer day. That is what it was then, and that is what it is today. We have succeeded in stopping this in Sweden. We already did this in the 1950s with our beach protection legislation. And we did so in political agreement. Beach protection is an effective conservation reform and a fine issue of justice. Mr President, I would like to Since the beginning of the 21st century, there has been pressure to build more along the beaches. The bourgeois government began to lighten the beach shelter in 2009. Last year the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the area with increased beach protection has decreased to about 75 per cent compared with before the change. As the Minister for the Environment mentioned, the area of protected land has decreased, not increased. Dispenses have always existed, but they have become generous. The municipalities now have the opportunity, in addition to granting exemptions in individual cases, to also identify whole areas within shore-protected areas, so-called LIS areas, which are responsible for rural development in lake-based areas. Now there are strong forces that want to further weaken the beach shelter. The arguments vary. Rural development has long been mantrast. Now it's a little exciting, because Gunilla Nordgren wants to refer to ownership. I understand that she is questioning the protection of the beach as a public interest. However, the Green Party considers that consideration for the nursery of animals and plants and the equal right of people to stay in water is a public interest of great importance. Peace of the beaches is also about peace of the countryside and making it more attractive for all year round residents. For who wants to live in the country or in the smaller conurbations unless the lake, river edge and pond can be visited because they are private? We now also see that many of these LIS areas have become summer cottage areas. No harm in that, but it was not the Alliance's intention to reform it, was it? For me, rural development is about completely different things. It is about more jobs and more service in rural areas. Day care, school, shop, good public transport and fine nature experiences are important for a good year-round living. The Green Party wants to protect beach protection and the purposes it protects. We believe that ownership, conservation of biodiversity and equal rights of people to beaches are important both in the city and in the country, both now and for future generations.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-742	Mr President, I would like to The balance between the individual interest and the general interest is at the heart of all environmental legislation. On this issue, it is clear that the County Administrative Board has an obligation to carry out, in each case of extended beach protection, an examination of interests taking into account individual interests. A limitation of the individual's rights may not go beyond what is necessary in view of the purpose of ensuring protection. The law is clear, but the need for proper beach protection is equally clear. The examples put forward by Mrs Stina Bergström of the Green Party are important to carry with her. The long-termness we have had in Sweden in this legislation has a clear effect in our country in terms of accessibility to the beaches and protection of the sensitive areas right on the shoreline. It is a general interest that is essential. When it comes to compensation, these questions often appear at the government's table. We examine and appeal decisions by state authorities on issues related to extended beach protection. However, this examination does not include the question of compensation. It is right that these are complex cases. We have the majority of cases raised, and we have received a number of them referred back on formal grounds. It's proof that it's a difficult matter. The fact that there has been a review of all the decisions taken on extended beach protection can, I hope, lead us to get away from the myth that there is that they have been unnecessary and this is outdated. Now we have a number of well-founded decisions on protection, and I hope that this will be possible over time and will be clear to the landowner and to the public. Not least for each municipality, it is of considerable importance when planning that this is clear to all.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-746	Mr President, I would like to I didn't say I wanted to weaken the beach shelter, Stina Bergström. Actually, that's not what I said. I also said that I respect the right of public access and that it is unique and good. We're not gonna have any locked gates. We just need to cross the water and see what it's like in Denmark where they don't have an all-men's right. What I'm talking about is having respect for each other. Some cases are certainly referred back. We had municipalities down where it happened, but it was because the County Administrative Board had forgotten to send the announcement to the Post- och Inrikes Tdningar. They then went out and said that they would make the same decision one more time and also announce it. It was a case that the government had banished. That's not what I'm after. I'm looking for respect for each other. It also says that it should be proportionate. There are six special considerations, and they are very special. I think we could show greater respect for landowners. If it is 200 landowners and it is unchanged forest or something it can be difficult, but even when it is under ten landowners you have no idea and interest to make sight and say that here we have a lake or that this creek is only two meters and it grows sharp in it and so on, but they have not on their maps. Then I do not think that the state – county government then is the state's extended arm – shows respect for the individual ownership that we actually, along with the Freedom of the Press Act and everything possible, are proud that we have in Sweden. I think you should tell the county boards that they can have a more open attitude and listen a little more. It's not a question of building on every beach. We have 500 000 kilometres of beaches or something like that in Sweden. We have an incredible number of beaches. The general beach shelter is 100 meters, so it should never be prohibited to get close. We're talking about the extended protection from 100 meters to 300 meters. That is what the debate is about, not about us removing the 100 metres. This thing with the locked gate, I don't understand, because you can't exclude from the general beach shelter. You should always be able to reach a beach. I didn't quite understand, even though I felt sorry for the old lady who was angry. So it is not a question of excluding, but my question to the Minister is: could we send a signal that it is important when the state wants to extend protection to 300 metres that it has a more open attitude and meets on more equal terms? Then it is the County Administrative Board that decides in the end, but it is an attitude issue. It is a question of whether we agree here too.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-752	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased to hear that Gunilla Nordgren has respect for beach protection of 100 metres. After all, there are those politicians in our parliament who do not think that we should protect the general beach protection. So this is gratifying to hear. As has been said, the purpose of our beach protection is for the public to have access to nature experiences and to preserve the species richness that exists in beach environments. But beach protection also reduces vulnerability to climate change. Sweden will face less problems than many other countries withslides and floods that will be the effect of climate change. It will reduce both future problems and costs for us. Boverket is responsible for the environmental objective Good built environment, and they have a vision for 2025 that we will then have stopped building along the beaches as a result of the fact that we have started to take climate change and its effects seriously. I hope that this will be true and that we will soon understand that we need to build our houses in more sheltered locations. Even today, insurance companies are starting to pull their ears off. Is it not also an important issue of ownership and responsibility not to build in risky locations? One might ask: ‘ Who really should feel responsible when the water comes into the houses? The one who sold the land? The one who granted the building permit? Or perhaps the politicians who changed beach protection legislation or granted the exemptions? These are issues we should discuss more in the debate on beach protection and climate adaptation.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-756	Mr President, I would like to We seem to agree on several points in this discussion. The first is that the beach shelter is a proud tradition in Sweden that we will protect. It is important to ensure public access to the beaches and to ensure biodiversity, but not least, as Stina Bergström points out, in order to secure the future that will, among other things, lead to more flooding. We also agree that consultation is an important process. It is an incredibly important and central part of the exercise of authority in Sweden, and it is important for the government that it is handled properly. It is clear that the County Administrative Board will give the relevant land and rights holders the opportunity to express their views before a decision on extended beach protection. When you ask for an opinion, what is stated in it is obviously important and should be part of the decision that is then taken. But I think it is important to point out that the exercise of authority in Sweden, unlike in some other countries, does not consist of a negotiation. To suggest it can do the individual a disservice and create doubt. It is clear that after obtaining an opinion, the Authority will take its decision. The valve for the individual is then that the decision is possible to appeal. That is the order we have, and that order works is of great importance. I am also confident that it is a good order, not specifically for beach protection, but as a way of making government decisions in Sweden.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-760	Mr President, I would like to We agree on a great deal, but what I am looking for is that when they submit their opinion, the authorities should also look at it. It is not a question of promising anything, but something can come from the landowner who has bearings. There are also announcements about a review of the beach protection rules, so I take the opportunity to ask if it is in the pipeline. I understand that the Minister has not been able to understand everything, but I can ask the question anyway. Maybe there are officials who know. It is important, but it should be rhyme and reason, as I said not only when it comes to beach protection but also, for example, when the landowner cannot use his forest to harvest but does not get a penny but almost gets the land forfeited. It's nice to walk in the woods, but if you can't use it, there should be some kind of compensation or instruction: Don't harvest right there! It is therefore a general change of attitude from the extended arm of the state. They should not just say that they decide and take the large brush and drive over all the lakes of a municipality without listening to the landowners. They may have arguments that are relevant and that I think the authority can be open enough to take on board to perhaps avoid appeals and so on. It is very much a question of attitude, a question of respect for individual ownership, and that is exactly why I asked this interpellation.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-765	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again to the interpellant for raising an important question! That's a difficult question. There have, of course, been several changes to beach protection legislation in recent years. In particular, the changes from 2009 and 2010 have changed the conditions by moving the decision-making rights to the municipalities to a greater extent and adding the derogation for rural development in coastal locations, which is commonly referred to as LIS in the debate. Furthermore, a rule on new possibilities for the abolition of beach protection in small lakes and watercourses entered into force as late as 2014. I and the government are closely following the issue of the application and importance of beach protection rules, both for the development of society and for the conservation value that the rules aim to protect. Strandskydd is important for Sweden. It is important that it works rationally for rural development, and it is an essential part of the work to protect biodiversity. That is why we are closely following developments in application and how it works in reality.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-769	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me three questions: Is the Minister for the Environment and the Government prepared to commission the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to apply the mutual recognition system with other EU countries better and to an increased extent, to interact with other authorities and companies, and to take into account the consequences and make comprehensive assessments of how best to achieve its long-term benefits? Does the Minister of the Environment intend to evaluate how the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate lives up to its instructions in the 2009 regulation? Is the Minister for the Environment, if none of the above works, prepared to work to ensure that the responsibility for applying the plant health regulation is transferred to another more appropriate authority, such as the Swedish Agriculture Agency? Member Staffan Danielsson put the following question to the Minister for Rural Development: Is the Minister prepared to introduce a portal clause in government environmental decisions on agriculture that says that, in addition to taking into account how Swedish agriculture rules are to be established so that the development towards an increasingly environmentally friendly agriculture continues, the decisions should also take into account how other EU countries act and not take decisions that lead to an increase in the use of pesticides in other EU countries while Swedish food production is excluded? The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. With regard to the first two questions, Mr Gjörtler has asked identical or similar questions in interpellation 2015/ 16:550, concerning the mission of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, which was answered by Minister Åsa Romson on 26 April, and in parliamentary question 2015/ 16:1166, on the follow-up to the instructions of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, which was answered by Minister Romson on 11 May. My answers to both questions will therefore be the same as those already given by Minister Romson. The legislation on plant protection products is harmonised by the EU by Regulation 1107/ 2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products. The Regulation is directly applicable in Sweden. The Regulation as a whole aims to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and to improve the functioning of the internal market while improving agricultural production. In order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, an active substance or plant protection product may only be authorised if the substance or product has no adverse effects on human or animal health and does not have an unacceptable effect on the environment. The competent authorities of the Member States shall be responsible for the examination carried out upon application by the person wishing to sell a product on the market of the Member State concerned. Decisions may be appealed to a court of law. The EU regulation also regulates a simplified procedure for mutual recognition of product authorisations. Through this procedure, the authorisation holder may apply for authorisation of the same plant protection product for the same use and in accordance with comparable agricultural practices in another Member State. The Member State to which such an application is submitted shall authorise the plant protection product concerned under the same conditions as the Member State which initially examined the application. In both cases, a Member State may, under certain circumstances, depart from the conclusions of the assessment carried out by the other Member State and refuse to authorise the plant protection product on its territory if, because of its specific environmental or agricultural conditions, it has reason to consider that the product in question presents an unacceptable risk to human or animal health or the environment. It is not my job to comment on the application of the regulatory framework by the Chemicals Inspectorate. Nor is it up to me or the government to give instructions or mandates to the Authority on the application of EU legal acts. The Swedish Food Safety Authority consults the Swedish Food Safety Authority on residue assessments and the Swedish Agriculture Agency on efficacy assessments of product authorisation for plant protection products. The Authority has regular dialogues with the relevant professional organisations and companies. During the year, the Agency has published on its website a clearer description of the management process and developed the texts on pesticides to clarify the application of existing rules. In order to make it easier for applicants, the Swedish Chemicals Agency has also developed guides to the application for pesticides. The Agency has also, in consultation with the National Federation of Farmers, developed a guide for the application to allow the placing on the market of a plant protection product in an emergency in the field of plant protection. The government's starting point is that authorities act in accordance with their instructions. The Government's monitoring and evaluation of government instructions is ongoing. The Swedish Chemicals Agency reports in writing on its assignment in accordance with § 4 of the instructions in the Annual Report for 2015, and oral information is provided at reconciliation meetings between the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. These meetings take place six times a year, and there is also an official dialogue. On the third and final question, I will come back to you in the next speech.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-784	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by welcoming the Minister for the Environment to this House. Expectations of the Minister for the Environment are great, not least on these issues. I dare say that there are great hopes too. I know that many are currently listening and hoping that the Minister will say something that gives hope that a constructive solution can be found to this problem. It is a question of the Chemicals Inspectorate making completely different interpretations of the common EU rules than are done in other countries. We see these problems in a number of areas, but the most recent one at the moment is plant protection products and specifically one that is used in the cultivation of, among other things, onions. This plant protection product may be used in all EU countries except Sweden. The consequence is that Swedish cultivation of, among other things, onions now risks being completely knocked out. Why, then, is this a problem? I wanted to highlight three different perspectives to illustrate how problematic this is. The first thing, and perhaps the most obvious thing that is heard most in the debate, is that this becomes a problem for agriculture, that is, for farmers. When the Swedish authority makes completely different interpretations of EU rules, which are supposed to be common to all EU countries, than all other countries, the conditions of competition are greatly distorted. It's kind of like saying to a doctor: We expect you to continue to treat patients, but you are not allowed to use any medicines. The probability is then that the business will cease altogether. But there are more perspectives, and another is about consumers. I think that consumers in Sweden should have the right to choose Swedish food products that we know are world class when it comes to both environmental and animal welfare. In Sweden, we are very good at using only a few plant protection products. In fact, Swedish onion cultivation uses only about one fifth as much plant protection products as some of our competitors in the EU do. It's just like animal husbandry and antibiotics. Sweden is the country in the EU that uses the least antibiotics in its livestock farming. Swedish farmers do not provide antibiotics for preventive purposes, but they must of course be allowed to use it if the animals become ill. In the same way, it is with plant protection. Cults do not use this unnecessarily, but they must be allowed to use it when needed. With a ban, onion cultivation risks being completely knocked out. Swedish consumers will then be forced to buy imported onions from countries where much more plant protection products are used than we do in Sweden. It does not benefit consumers. The third perspective I would like to highlight concerns the environment. In Sweden, we have said that we will solve our environmental problems without causing increased environmental and health problems outside Sweden's borders. We're not exporting any environmental impact. It is an important part of the so-called generational goal. But when Swedish cultivation is discontinued and we buy products from other countries where we use many more of these plant protection products, that is exactly what we do. We export our environmental impact by helping to increase the use of plant protection products globally instead. To sum up, what is now happening is bad for producers and for agriculture, which is at risk of being knocked out. It is bad for consumers who are forced to buy worse products. And it is bad for the environment when we export our environmental impact by contributing to increased global use of plant protection products. There is still one issue which also provides an opportunity for the Minister for the Environment to be constructive. The question is: what do the government and the Minister for the Environment intend to do about this problem?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-794	Mr President, I would like to Welcome in this context, Minister! We have met in other contexts in South Sweden and have often reached similar conclusions, and I hope that we will do so on this issue as well. Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's description with three perspectives on the current situation regarding the cultivation of onions and other vegetables in Sweden was very brilliant. It is bad for producers, it is bad for the Swedish consumer and it is very bad for the environment. I have gone up in this interpellation debate instead of my party colleague Staffan Danielsson, who is sent to Russia on some other matter. The background is precisely the one that has been described in the int erpellation, that the Swedish Emikalieinspektionen with support in an EU regulatory framework has acted Swedish and a little square. The EU has the most ambitious chemicals legislation in the world. It aims to protect both people and the environment and also to prevent barriers to trade within the EU. The actions of a Swedish authority supported by an EU regulatory framework risk leading to the relocation of the production of onions and some other vegetables to another EU country. Instead, we are importing the same food from that country. It is clear that we should push in the EU to ensure that it continues to be a rigorous test of which pesticides are allowed. But the question will then be: What will the environment in Europe and the world gain from the fact that we in Sweden use these pesticides much more carefully than the countries that export onions and other vegetables? What is the benefit of the environment if we in our country make decisions that mean that Swedish cultivation is closed down while it continues in other countries, where we then import these vegetables? What does the consumer gain? What does the environment gain? And what do the growers gain? I know that a minister cannot enter and enter the action of an authority. But we can see it from an overall perspective. If the consequences of a Swedish government act in this way, what initiative is the government, which is ultimately the one who gives the authorities their instructions, prepared to take? What instructions is the government prepared to give Swedish authorities so that the overall perspective – the grower, the consumer and the overall environment – is as good as possible? Actually, that's what it's all about.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-802	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I would also like to welcome Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog to this House. It feels great to have you here, and I also think that we have conducted these interpellation debates during the evening in a good tone of conversation and in a good spirit of cooperation. I hope that we can continue to do so even when we are now debating plant protection. I am chairman of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, and the committee has been involved in this matter. We have had a meeting with the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the LRF to get involved in the matter in different ways and understand where the problem lies. Somewhere I think we agree that there should be effective plant protection in Sweden that protects human health and our environment and that can also cope with increased Swedish food production. There is probably broad support in the Swedish Parliament for this very thing. It is also important for us in this debate to be a little careful about how we are discussing. Not least, it is about credibility towards the citizens outside this house who have given us their trust and elected us to the Swedish parliament and also to the Swedish government. Sometimes you get the feeling that this is a new problem and a new challenge. Actually, that's not the case. These are issues we've been struggling with for a long time. I, for my part, am very proud that we in the European Union have jointly decided that we should ensure that European food production and European cultivation with authorised plant protection products are carried out. That is, of course, what EU-harmonised legislation is about and which, among other things, the Chemicals Inspectorate has to apply. We will carry out cultivation with authorised plant protection products that protect people and the environment. That is a very good ambition of which we in the European Union should be proud, I think. The rules are therefore fully harmonised at EU level. Then we should be careful to recognise that what we are talking about here, with regard to, for example, onion cultivation, are non-authorised plant protection products. They are not approved for a reason, usually because they may be carcinogenic or because they do not protect human health or the environment. For Sweden, this is not a new situation. This has been a problem since 2008. The bourgeois parties sat in the government for eight years and had every opportunity to take steps to ensure that we can grow more in our country, preferably more vegetables, vegetables and fruit, with cultivation methods and plant protection products that can be approved in the EU and work. One example is the possibility of growing onions with seed bulbs. Then you do not need to use the plant protection product Stomp. This is done in other countries, but not in Sweden. We also have the opportunity to facilitate different cultivation methods in other ways but also to support different ways of working with effective plant protection products. The previous government could. As Sweden's current Minister for the Environment now answers very well, there are of course also opportunities for a consensus in the Swedish Parliament on how we could deal with these issues for the future. But as I was thinking, a bit of manners is needed in the debate!
i-f2b428ebe888f094-812	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by answering the third and final question from Jonas Gjörtler. It is my assessment that the Agency's assessment of the authorisation of plant protection products complies with the requirements of the EU Plant Protection Products Regulation and the Government's instructions. It is unclear to me how Staffan Danielsson thinks that a portal clause in government environmental decisions on agriculture could work. As I have already replied, the legislation on plant protection products is harmonised in the EU by Regulation 1107/ 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market. The regulation is directly applicable in Sweden, and it is not for me or the Government to give instructions or instructions to the Authority on the application of EU acts. We should agree on how inappropriate it would be if the government went in and called on an authority to apply a little careless EU legislation that we have been involved in developing in cooperation with others, partly as a success for Sweden. How would that work? Today, it is in the process of drafting EU regulations that the balance is struck between the impact on the internal market and environmental considerations. Is it the Moderates' view that this balance should be shifted to the Member States? It would open up for much greater differences in application between Member States and upset the internal market. It's not my vision. We from Sweden have been involved in working out the legislation that exists. I share the pride of EU legislation expressed here by the Chairman of the Environment and Agriculture Committee. It is a known problem that the test does not work very well in the smaller markets. This is because it is up to the person who wants to sell a product to apply for the permit. What the Chemicals Inspectorate does is just look at the applications that come in. That is the task of the Authority. A specific application has been rejected. I do not think it is entirely correct to call it a ban. To compensate for the shortage and problem that Sweden is a smaller market, and to put us on the farmer's side, the government has allocated 6 million to a project concerning crops that are grown to a small extent or have plant health problems that arise to a limited extent. We share the view that we should have a strong food production in Sweden. But the price must not be the use of substances that are dangerous to the environment or to humans and animals. It is not the government's view that we need to sacrifice people's health in order to have good and safe food production in Sweden.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-819	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the Environment. No one wants to use plant protection products unnecessarily. Of course, everyone is striving to find new means, new methods and other ways of solving this problem in a different way without having the negative effects. However, while this work is in progress, it is important not to knock away the legs of the business. It has to work in the meantime. I think we fully agree that the work for a non-toxic environment is important. There's no contradiction there. There is no one who thinks that you should be allowed to use any product or means freely, but it is obviously good that this is clearly regulated. It is also good that it is regulated at European level. I would like to respond to some of the points raised by Matilda Ernkrans. Matilda Ernkrans argues that this is about unauthorised plant protection products. Yes, that is the case in Sweden, but the problem is that it is plant protection products that are authorised throughout the EU except Sweden. This is part of the problem, and that is why we are here discussing this issue. The Agency has granted exemptions for a few years, so that this means can still be used. I can therefore also respond to Matilda Ernkrans's second statement that this would not be a new problem or a new challenge. It is, at least in part. The fact that the product is not approved is something that has been the case in Sweden, but it has been granted an exemption for a number of years. This year, however, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has chosen not to grant an exemption for this product, and in reality it will be possible to use the product in the rest of the EU but not in Sweden. It's a whole new situation. The Alliance government did a number of things to try to improve the situation. For example, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and other authorities received a new instruction in 2009, I think it was, where it is clear that the industry and other relevant authorities should be consulted. It is good that that instruction exists. Part of the problem here is that I feel that this instruction is not being satisfactorily complied with by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. That is one reason why we need to act, I think. The Minister for the Environment suggests that we would think that the plant health regulation should be applied carelessly. I strongly disagree with that. That is not the case at all. It is not a question of applying the regulation carelessly if an interpretation is made which is the same as in 27 of the EU's 28 Member States. In fact, it is the Chemicals Inspectorate that makes an extreme interpretation. It's beyond doubt. It is extreme in the sense that it is completely alone in its interpretation among all 28 EU Member States. That's the problem. In the past, I have presented five concrete proposals to both the former Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Rural Development on how the government could resolve this by clarifying the instructions to the Chemicals Inspectorate, giving different assignments and so on. I can think of at least one concrete proposal in addition to the five, and that is to transfer the entire responsibility for plant protection products to the Swedish Agriculture Agency, which can better make an overall assessment and safeguard what we all want to see, that is to say, both to ensure a high level of protection for people, animals and the environment and, at the same time, to improve agricultural production, as it is also stated in the purpose clause of the EU Plant Protection Products Regulation. There you go! Now the Minister for the Environment has six concrete proposals from us on how this can be resolved. I do not expect the Minister for the Environment to necessarily use any of those proposals. What I am curious about, if we do not want to use our proposals, is how the government is prepared to solve this problem.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-828	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the previous answer from the Minister for the Environment. Of course, Sweden, as one of 28 members of the EU free trade area, is going to push forward and ensure that we have a very strict test of which pesticides and plant protection products should be allowed. The fundamental question here this evening to understand the work of the authorities and the legislator is: what will the environment gain in Europe, in the world and in Sweden and how will the food on the consumer's plate be better if we, as a growing nation, stop using plant protection products and instead export the cultivation of things used and consumed in our country to environments and parts of Europe that allow a more generous and probably for the environment and consumers less use of pesticides and plant protection products? What do we win? That is the fundamental issue. Then you land a little bit in Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's reasoning. Who has overall responsibility? I'm sure Kemli will follow his instructions. We're not going to question Keml. But who takes overall responsibility if the consequence of an official practice is that the cultivation of an onion in Sweden for Swedish consumers grown in a way that is extremely satisfactory compared to the alternatives is exported to a place where it is worse for the consumer? At the same time, Swedish cultivation is being bought out, which is actually at the forefront in terms of minimising the use of plant protection products. What, then, have we gained from the overall picture? Matilda Ernkrans talks about credibility in reasoning and decisions in the Swedish Parliament. It's obvious. But with the three perspectives from the grower, the consumer and the environment and the demand for a holistic perspective, it becomes almost incomprehensible if Swedish authorities act in such a way as has now been described. We export what we ourselves consider to be a concern to other countries and make the concern or problem greater. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling on the Minister for the Environment to look beyond the concrete proposals made by Jonas Gjörtler – were they eight in number? – also visit the place of cultivation. It can be on Öland in my home area, in Blekinge or in Skåne. Then she can understand the overall perspective, see what it means and see the pride of growers and consumers in these parts of the country in being able to produce food of the highest quality that does not make people sick. She can then see how amazed they are at an exercise of authority that obliges them to do a successful job.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-833	Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the Environment Minister's well-balanced response to this interpellation debate. I also want to be very clear about the commitment to effective plant protection that protects human health and the environment and increased Swedish food production. But the respect and confidence of people outside this house is obtained by doing a solid job and not by taking short-term pretend shortcuts, which are what the Moderates and the Center Party here are trying to do. You've been wearing since 2008. You know, like me, that since 2008 the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has not received a new application for a new product authorisation. KemI has therefore not had any other application to take a position on since 2008. A new application for authorisation could have been submitted, as has been done in Denmark, for example. There, an application was submitted at significantly lower levels. Those who grow these vegetables and vegetables say: We do not use so much unapproved plant protection products in our cultivation but have much lower levels. I am absolutely convinced that there must be a way forward on this issue so that we can continue to grow vegetables, vegetables and fruit in our country in the future too. But it does not go through short-term, populist shortcuts, but through solid hard work and more collaboration at all levels.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-836	Mr President, I would like to I share what is said in this House about the pride of Swedish food production. There is a pride among the growers, but we naturally also feel proud of this from the government and want to protect Swedish food production. There are good conditions for sustainable production of fruit and vegetables in Sweden. I would also strongly agree with the chairman of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture when she points out that this is not a new issue. To claim that implies, as I see it, a desire to escape the responsibility of leaving a long government power. The question is about the minor use. There are concerns about the crops where it is used to a limited extent. The question is by no means new. Precisely on the subject of Stomp, there has been a long-standing exemption. It also shows that the issue is not new. The granting of an exemption after an exemption is clearly not allowed. It is not a way of securing conditions for business. If it is the Moderates' solution to grant exemption after exemption in breach of the regulations, you do not take responsibility for the terms. It must, of course, be permanent approvals that are the basis. Precisely to create a basis for this, the government has set aside 6 million to look at ways forward for the part of the industry that is small and where the market itself does not seek the necessary permits that exist and solve it for all growers. We are taking a responsibility that the previous government has not taken on this issue. In order to have sustainable and clear food production, we do not need to compromise on the safety of human health, animal health and the protection of the environment. There is also a review of EU legislation. I can assure the House that the government is very actively involved in that review. It is also a bit appropriate to tell us a little about how EU legislation works, as it does not seem to be fully known to the interpellants. There is a regulation. When looking at the active substances in different pesticides, that Regulation strikes a balance between the impact on the internal market. This balance must be struck at European level. What the individual Member States then do through their authorities is to examine applications for products. An application has to be submitted in order for it to be examined. The consequence of what is cited here by the Moderates is that the market balance is shifted from EU level and an overall assessment of the entire market to the Member States. The consequence would be far greater differences than the current situation between the conditions in the various Member States. Competition for Swedish food production would be significantly reduced by such a regime. I and the government are committed to supporting the order we have today. The active substance is managed at EU level towards the single market. There are balances and overall assessments. In the Member States, however, it is a strict exercise of authority. In this, KemI follows the instructions that exist. Exemptions are not granted after exemption from the rules.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-845	Mr President, I would like to I share the pride expressed here over Swedish agriculture and food production, the Minister for the Environment. That is something we can agree on. Then I think it becomes a little unnecessary polemic in some parts. It is suggested here that the Moderates think that exemptions should be granted in violation of the regulations. Let me remind you that the Swedish authority is the exception here. It is the Swedish authority that makes an assessment that nothing else of the 28 Member States does. It is argued that the needs of agriculture cannot be taken into account in its assessments, even though it states that it should be taken into account in the purpose clause. Can the Minister of the Environment show us where it says in the plant health regulation? Why do the authorities in all other countries make a completely different assessment? The Agency also considers that exemptions may only be granted a limited number of times. We know that there are other countries in which exemptions have been granted more than ten times and which, moreover, have been granted several times in the same year. Where does the plant health regulation say that only a certain number of derogations are allowed, and if so, how many? The Authority also considers it necessary to increase the requirements for each exemption. This has been said when we have been visited in committee, among other things. This is not in the Plant Health Regulation either. These are the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's own interpretations of a regulatory framework, which differs greatly from what is done in other countries. That is the problem. And that is a new problem, because it is this year that no exemption has been granted. Exemptions have been granted in the past. Thus, Matilda Ernkrans's reasoning and attempts to argue that this is about some kind of populist score. This is a new situation; it is not the situation we had in the last period. That's just the way it is. If Sweden and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate had applied the principle of mutual recognition, as it is intended, it would have worked in the way that EU legislation is supposed to work. Now they do not, and Sweden has received criticism for this. There is only one example where we have applied the principle, and that is not OK. I still wonder how the government intends to act to solve the problems.
i-f2b428ebe888f094-853	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a debate with the Minister for the Environment. I would like to start by asking my question: what is the concrete way forward for the government? Right now, as we stand here discussing, Swedish onion and vegetable cultivation stamps out from the Swedish kitchen tables. We can look forward to eating Swedish vegetables and onions during the coming winter, but from 2017 it will mainly be about import onions. There is certainly nothing wrong with it, but it is cultivated under conditions that we would not accept or approve in our country. What Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler and I are reacting to is an exercise of authority by a government agency that has taken place in 2016, in the middle of the ongoing growing season – hence our interpellations. It is during the government of Löfven-Lövin-Lövin that this happens. That's why we're interpelling. What does the government intend to do to ensure that in the future we can eat and serve our relatives good and tasty food from different parts of the world with pride, joy and confidence, but always cultivated under conditions that we ourselves approve and accept? What's the strategy?
i-f2b428ebe888f094-856	Mr President, I would like to Interpretations are based on a number of false premises. It is about how EU legislation is implemented in Sweden when it is directly applicable and when it is clear that the Member States do not have room for their own rules. It is also about the roles in this. There is sometimes a picture in the debate that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate should have a responsibility to ensure that applications for different substances and what is needed to create clear conditions for the industry to come in. It's not like that. The Agency examines the applications received by the Authority. Here in Parliament, a review of the administrative review is made. Then it is important to remember that the decision to refuse an exemption is reviewed in the Swedish court. The appeal didn't go the way. The Court found that this was a recurrent problem. This is not a new situation, but a recurring problem that could have been foreseen. On that basis, the Court examined the appeal and held that the present situation could not entail exceptions or emergency situations allowing for the granting of a derogation for the sixth year in a row. Dispenses are meant to be temporary, and the government's plan to secure the conditions for Swedish food production is not through recurring exemptions. That is why we have spent 6 million for a forward-looking work that deals precisely with the parts with minor use and that fundamentally affects Swedish food production.
