i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-3	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me what measures I intend to take to reverse the declining trend shown by the Swedish Tax Agency's statistics for the ROT sector. Since its introduction, the costs of the ROT deduction have increased significantly. The cost for 2009 was SEK 9.6 billion, and according to the Swedish Tax Agency nearly SEK 20 billion has been paid out for 2015. At a time when Sweden was after the previous government's term of office with high unemployment, housing shortages and government deficits, this government chose to change its policy. What we are seeing now is a sharp increase in housing construction. The number of dwellings started in the first half of 2016 is the highest since 1992, and the higher rate of residential building construction is expected to continue in the coming years. At the same time, there is a shortage of labour in the construction sector. In order to build the necessary housing, it is important to control some of the subsidies that have gone to ROT work to support new construction.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-6	Madam President, I would like The government's explicit ambition is for Sweden to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Despite this objective, the government has chosen a number of measures that lead to fewer jobs, not more. It is particularly serious when we now see a new alienation emerging. More people are far from the labour market. The government itself has estimated that exclusion will involve nearly 1 million people already in just a few years' time unless strong reforms are implemented. However, these reforms are lacking in government policy. Instead, there are several tax increases, which are now hitting jobs and growth. One example is the increase in the social security contribution for young people, which the government's own expert authority estimates will reduce the employment rate of young people by between 6 000 and 10 000 people. Another example is the halving of the RUT deduction. The RUT deduction has been a very successful reform to create new jobs – it has even been admitted by the Minister of Finance. Not least, the RUT reform has contributed with many simple jobs, where education is not subject to such high demands. Those jobs are needed. Today we have 200 000 foreign-born people over 35 who do not have upper secondary education. Of course, many people need training, but not everyone can or does not want it. For them, many times the simple jobs are needed to get their first job. The RUT industry therefore needs to become bigger, not smaller. Unfortunately, the government is moving in the opposite direction. A further deterioration has occurred in the ROT deduction. At the turn of the year, the government reduced its scope for deductions from 50 to 30 per cent of the labour cost. We can already see the consequences of this in the Swedish Tax Agency's statistics. By comparison, it turns out that one in four ROT buyers has disappeared, comparing July this year with July last year. We see the same trend in the number of performers: 5,660 performers have disappeared, which corresponds to one in five. The government's deterioration in the ROT deduction has thus been very evident in the Swedish Tax Agency's statistics, in a situation where Sweden needs more jobs and good conditions for entrepreneurship. Of course, we should always question what we use public money for and how we design tax incentives. The Minister for Finance believes that we should now take resources from the ROT industry and instead spend subsidies on the large construction companies. This has been tried before, but it has not succeeded, nor is it something that the industry is asking for in order for construction to get started. Madam President, I would like ROT and RUT have created many new jobs, but we cannot ignore the fact that in those sectors there have previously been jobs that have been black but that have become white thanks to ROT and RUT. In particular, the Swedish Tax Agency has pointed out the impact the reforms have had on people's acceptance of using undeclared labour. From 2006 to 2012, the proportion of people who distanced themselves from tax evasion increased from 51 to 74 per cent, and the proportion who knew someone who had hired a black labour force decreased from 38 to 24 per cent. It's important. We must constantly work to combat tax evasion and risky working environments. Thus, when both ROT and RUT are reduced, one cannot ignore the risk of white jobs becoming black again. How does the Minister of Finance view the risk of government action leading to a larger black sector and increased tax evasion?
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-17	Madam President, I would like I hear the arguments of the Moderates, which are quite precisely the arguments that have been put forward in this House over the last two years. It is just that we are now beginning to see results, and the government's policy has not had all the effects that Maria Malmer Stenergard and other Moderates say it has. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that the government's policy is hitting growth. The truth is that we have very high growth in Sweden, higher than in most comparable countries – higher than Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States and highest in the Nordic countries. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that government policy leads to fewer jobs. Well, the number of people employed has increased by 120 000 in the last two years, and unemployment is falling compared to when the Moderates were in government. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that the employer's fee for young people and the change we made there lead to fewer young people getting jobs. Well, youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. She says that the change we make to the RUT deduction means that fewer people buy RUT. Now we see that the RUT deduction, until August, has not decreased. She says 200 000 people are out of high school. Then let's know that she includes those who have a job, to get the number up. She says that the investment aid we have for rentals is not something that is required for the construction to get started. At the same time, we see that the construction is now the highest since 1992. Maybe it's time to look up from the points of speech they wrote in autumn 2014 and see how reality unfolds. It wasn't exactly what the Moderates feared. On the other hand, it is Maria Malmer Stenergards's view that it is important to combat tax evasion. However, I do not believe that abolishing the tax is the best way to combat tax evasion at all times. With the level of RUT and ROT subsidies advocated by the Moderates, the sector is in practice exempt from tax. In the long run, we cannot finance welfare if large parts of the economy are exempt from tax. On the other hand, it is important to combat tax evasion, where the government has proposed, among other things in the budget, that monthly data should be reported per individual from employers. This is something that greatly reduces tax evasion and is in demand by parts of the industry. It will mean a lot to the construction industry and to reduce cheating there. I have a question for Maria Stenergard. As she is concerned about the ROT deduction, I wonder: Will the Moderates restore the ROT deduction to 50% in the budget exercise to be launched within a week?
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-28	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance is right that Sweden has high growth. This is very positive – we are in a boom. Those close to the labour market have easier access to jobs, and we naturally share the joy of this with the Minister for Finance. However, we must not ignore the problems that are growing in the Swedish labour market at the same time. We have a new and growing exclusion, and unemployment is increasing among those who are far removed from the labour market. Unemployment is increasing among those born abroad. I am concerned about this, and it requires reforms that the government unfortunately does not present. So, as I said in my previous speech, we can see a clear decline in the ROT sector since the deterioration of the ROT deduction. Logically, the sale of building materials should be reduced, but it has not. The Swedish Trade Investigation Institute has recently released a report on behalf of the Construction Materials Traders. It shows an increase in sales from 2015 to 2016 of 9 percent. The growth is certainly not as strong as in 2015, but the growth in the industry is clear. The building materials are therefore used, even though the ROT performers and the ROT buyers are decreasing. Maybe we can get more people at home ourselves. Maybe we can see an increase in black jobs. It is, of course, too early to say, but developments give cause for concern. What we can in any case note is that the industry bears witness to the fact that since the ROT reform was carried out by the alliance government, the demand to buy the building materials black has virtually disappeared. But, of course, we must not assume that this demand cannot come back. Sweden stands out for its high tax standards. We want to do the right thing. Most of us may not think it is cool to pay taxes, but most people think it is important. We'll protect that. All children are going to school. Everyone's gonna get help when they need it. For this, it is also reasonable to collect tax. But the high tax standards that we have must not be taken for granted. It is based on a high level of confidence in the public which we must gain over and over again. Tax morale increased markedly during the reign of the Alliance. According to the Swedish Tax Agency, the introduction of ROT and RUT contributed to important changes in attitudes when black became white and precarious jobs became safer. The question, then, is what effects we can fear when the ROT, and also the RUT, is now deteriorating. But, Madam President, there are also other concerns when we look at the government's reduction in ROT and RUT. One is the signal that the government's deterioration is sending. This creates concern in the industry. You ask yourself which is the next step, and you hesitate to invest. Another is the rule issue. During the time of the alliance government in power, administrative costs for companies were reduced by SEK 7 billion, and nearly 600 simplification proposals were made to make everyday life easier for companies. Only yesterday, the Swedish National Audit Office strongly criticised the government for creating far too much regulatory problems in the tax area. The government's impact assessments lack information on how the administrative costs of companies are affected. It simply underestimates how much the regulatory burden is on businesses and ultimately affects jobs. With government bills, ROT and RUT become difficult to grasp and contribute to this problem. 50 000 SEK 30 percent, 25 000 SEK 50 percent – it is a rule jungle for both households and companies. How does the Minister of Finance view the Swedish National Audit Office's sharp criticism from yesterday towards the increased regulatory burden in the tax area, especially in the light of ROT and RUT? Then I would ask you to come back to our own budget exercise.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-39	Madam President, I would like Here we have a discussion about how important Maria Malmer Stenergard thinks it is to exempt the ROT sector and have a 50% reduction. But then she cannot answer whether the Moderates will propose it in their budget motion. You must know that! You're still responsible for the tax issues in the Moderates. If we now have a discussion and you say how bad it is with the change that the government has made, you must of course have decided to restore the change. Why else do we have this interpellation debate? We must be able to get a clear answer here. Otherwise, you're just taking up time for nothing. I expect a proper response in the next speech. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that unemployment is increasing among those who are far from the labour market. Here, however, we can note that those working in the ROT industry are rarely very far removed from the labour market, as qualifications are required, and this also applies to qualifications that are currently lacking. A lot of labour is needed when building new jobs, and there is a shortage in the professions that carry out ROT work. As far as regulatory problems are concerned, it is of course important that we have as simple rules as possible for companies. But the ROT and RUT exceptions have increased the regulatory burden. The fact that there is ROT and RUT at all increases the regulatory burden and makes the tax system less uniform and simpler for companies.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-43	Madam President, I would like Let me remind you that the parliamentary scrutiny power is there to review the government and not for the government to review the opposition when it comes to a budget motion that has not even been raised. It is the government that rules the country and should be responsible for the budget proposal that was presented on Tuesday. Then we can see that, despite high ambitions in terms of unemployment, the government is unwarranted about jobs. The tax is being increased in several areas that are hitting jobs: increased income tax, reduced ROT, reduced RUT, increased petrol tax, taxes on tablets, mobile phones and other consumer electronics, to name a few. The money is said to be spent on investment, but so far these investments have not borne fruit. Not even 5% of all promised extra services and trainee services have become reality. When you put taxes on jobs to use for reforms that obviously do not create jobs, we have a negative balance that Sweden cannot afford in the future. Nevertheless, the government is appreciably satisfied, and it is concerned. With growing exclusion, the Finance Minister should present long-term reforms that create jobs and make it more profitable to move from grants to work. Only then can we build Sweden stronger and guarantee good welfare for those who need it.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-46	Madam President, I would like Then we were back on the talk points from 2014 again. However, with regard to all the effects that Maria Malmer Stenergard and other Moderates claim that the government's policy would have, we can only conclude that it has not led to this. This is because when you charge taxes, you can not only look at the fact that you charge taxes but also have to look at what you use the tax money for. The government has implemented important reforms to increase growth and employment in Sweden. This applies not least to the fact that we are now investing heavily in building new rental apartments, so that young people have the opportunity to put the key in their first apartment. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. Instead of expensive and inefficient tax subsidies, the government invests in the opportunity for young people to receive education or training and not to go idle month after month. We're making historical investments at the school. There are 10 billion targeted state grants to the school in order for all children to get really good education and feel safe in school. Here we now have an interpellation where Maria Malmer Stenergard asks why the government has changed the ROT deduction. She seems to think it's very bad about the change that the government makes when we lower the deductions – the possibility of receiving subsidies to rebuild her kitchen – and instead invests in getting many newly built kitchens. It is a policy which, moreover, seems to have been effective when we see that construction is increasing in a way that it has not done for a very long time. The government's policy has produced results. But above all, Maria Malmer Stenergard cannot even answer if she is going to restore the reform, even though the interpellation is made to think that this is bad, and it is not long before the motion is to be awakened in the Riksdag. It will be very interesting to see what is the result of the Moderates' work. You don't seem to have decided yet whether you think government policy is good or not.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-50	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me when I calculate that the members of the Tax Committee will have access to the Ministry of Finance's calculations regarding BEPS and whether I stand by the fact that Swedish companies and Sweden as a nation will win the new tax rules. Aggressive international tax planning damages the economy in several ways. It reduces tax revenues and thus makes it difficult to finance joint commitments, such as justice, education and infrastructure. It may also distort competition by allowing undertakings engaged in such tax planning to obtain an undue advantage over undertakings which do not. It is therefore important that priority be given to combating aggressive international tax planning. Coordination at EU level of certain measures not only increases the effectiveness of the measures, but also smoothes the playing field between multinationals and domestic companies. Coordination means that all Member States will have to have anti-avoidance and anti-avoidance rules, including those not members of the OECD. Sweden currently has several rules to discourage international tax planning, while other EU countries do not. For example, we have a general anti-abuse regulation in the form of the Tax Avoidance Act, CFC rules and rules on exit taxation. It can therefore be expected that other Member States will have to tighten their tax systems more closely than Sweden. Work towards aggressive international tax planning should thus strengthen Sweden's relative competitiveness within the EU, which increases Sweden's ability to attract investments. At the same time, this positive effect on competitiveness can be partly countered if the EU goes beyond third countries. As aggressive tax planning will be reduced, the overall proposals are assessed as positive for Sweden and tax revenues. The parts that change our legislation will be accompanied in the usual order by an impact assessment when that legislation comes to Parliament.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-56	Madam President, I would like I am very grateful to the Minister for Finance for giving me the opportunity to express my concern about the basis for decision-making in general and impact assessments in particular with regard to our tax base. Our public service is paid through taxes. Our public service is paid for by our citizens, which also presupposes that they pay the right tax and that, as Maria Stenergard mentioned earlier, they have high tax standards. People must want to contribute, and then transparency is extremely important. We note that the work against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion is conducted on the basis of a common basis and opinions from the parties in the Riksdag, where the Minister of Finance has received support in the work through the parliamentary committees. However, there are elements in the BEPS work that concern me and should worry Swedish taxpayers, as the biggest change will not be tax evasion without the tax base and where to tax as a company. Of course, it is a good thing that companies are not subject to double taxation, which we are all starting from. However, in terms of where a company's tax will be paid, there will be a major change under the new rules. Sweden is a small country in the EU, a small country in this context and a country that is dependent on exports. This should mean that if the rule is that tax is to be paid where value is created, we lose a great deal of our tax base, as tax will be paid in the larger EU countries. The Minister of Finance has on several occasions argued that there will be a profit for Sweden in connection with the BEPS work. The only reason for profit cannot be to reduce aggressive tax planning to such an extent that it provides sufficient tax revenue to offset the loss of tax on the general tax base of companies. Just as I wrote in my interpellation, I lack a thorough impact description, and the Minister of Finance has on several occasions argued that this will be a profit for Sweden. It is not that I doubt the Minister for Finance, but she certainly has the basis for what she says. But it would be much easier for me to say it if I had the same or similar basis. It is not only the Alliance in the Riksdag that has reacted to the lack of public impact assessments, but also interest organisations and the Swedish National Audit Office. I think it is extremely important that we should have access to the impact assessments as soon as possible, so that we can see with the same information whether the government has made the right assessment or wrong assessment. Sending the government to Brussels on several occasions without having an impact assessment feels extremely shaky and cannot be really responsible, although the Minister for Finance certainly has more information than the members of the Riksdag.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-66	Madam President, I would like I thank Larry Söder for an extremely urgent interpellation. Sometimes when you present a question or an interpellation, you may feel that you are not getting as detailed an answer as you would have hoped. In this case, Larry Söder received a fairly detailed answer to one of his questions. But with all due respect, the Minister of Finance has forgotten to answer Larry Söder's second question: when do the members of the Tax Committee get to know the Ministry of Finance's estimates regarding BEPS? On Thursday 16 June, the Committee on Tax and Economic Affairs held an open hearing on the competitiveness of Swedish multinationals in the light of new rules in the field of international taxation. Much of course came to revolve around BEPS and the implementation of BEPS at EU level. What I said at the time is still valid today: Combating illegal capital and tax evasion is an international priority, and it is important that Sweden participates actively in this work. But our starting point must be to safeguard Swedish tax bases and Swedish competitiveness. In the Moderates, we have therefore been critical of the Commission's proposal, which we believe has been prepared too quickly, without an impact assessment and too far from the OECD conclusions. It therefore risks hitting our competitiveness. It also interferes with Sweden's sovereignty regarding tax legislation, and we are not alone in working on that position. The Swedish National Audit Office has decided to review the Government's participation in the work against international tax planning. The European Commission's work in producing a proposal for a European tax law has been unusually rapid, and given that it may have a significant impact on the Swedish tax system, the Swedish National Audit Office has found reasons to review the government's participation in the EU work. When I said this at the hearing, the Minister of Finance replied as follows: As far as the work in the EU on bringing BEPS to EU law is concerned, we have stated from the Swedish Government that we think it is going well quickly and that the Commission should carry out a more thorough analysis of the proposals it makes. It has not been heeded by the Commission, and, in the absence of an analysis by the Commission, we on the part of the Government have carried out our own analysis of the possible consequences of this directive for Sweden. The Minister of Finance thus referred to the fact that the Government had its own analysis of the possible consequences of the directive for Sweden. It is also the basis for Sweden's position. It's important material, and that analysis is something that many of us have been trying to get out during the summer. I was turned down on the grounds that it constitutes work material. I then asked the government to examine the question of the request for public documents. But I also got no from the government, which therefore does not want to share its data. That's why Larry Söder's interpellation is extremely urgent. I hope that the Minister of Finance will be able to answer today in this House when she estimates that the members of the Tax Committee will be able to take note of the Ministry of Finance's analysis of BEPS.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-73	Madam President, I would like In this matter, as in all other matters, the Government follows the rules that exist for public documents and also the rules of procedure that we have in place when we submit documents to the Riksdag. The answer to Maria Malmer Stenergards's question is in the interpellation answer when I say: The elements that introduce changes to our legislation will be followed by an impact assessment as usual. Thus, when this becomes legislation, it will in the usual order be accompanied by an impact assessment, just as with other proposals submitted by the government to the Riksdag. That is when this impact assessment comes to the tax committee. With regard to this matter, as with all other cases, we follow the rules on documents and on the disclosure of documents. So there is nothing strange about this. There is no action at the Ministry of Finance that is a complete act, but this is a work material. There will be a complete impact assessment when we come up with these proposals to Parliament – in full order. If you want to change this system, it is about changing the legislation that exists on the principle of public access and on which documents are to be disclosed by public authorities.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-78	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance's reply was, of course, correct from the interpellation that I have presented, but did not really touch the concerns that I was trying to express regarding the Swedish tax base. I believe that the BEPS work will mean that the Swedish tax base will be eroded because Swedish companies will pay taxes elsewhere, because the value is created elsewhere in the EU. In fact, it is a major change when it comes to our ability to collect tax from Swedish companies. I think that we, as Parliament, should be clearer about the fact that we want to protect the Swedish tax base, not only in terms of tax evasion, but also in order to have a legitimate opportunity to collect taxes from those companies that are actually Swedish. I think perhaps the Minister for Finance did not touch on this in his reply to me now. I would like the Minister of Finance to say either that I am completely wrong, that is to say that the Swedish tax base will not be affected, or that I am absolutely right in my concern and that we can work together to protect the Swedish tax base. I think that this has disappeared in the debate that arises when we are talking only about tax evasion and about putting the right tax on those who do not pay the right tax. But that part we agree on; this is the part I think is the biggest change that we have to deal with and which will be the hardest part to agree on when it comes to getting it through in Parliament.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-81	Madam President, I would like Regardless of which government we have, it is extremely important that we protect Swedish tax bases and Swedish competitiveness. Without companies that are doing well, jobs and welfare are affected. That is why, of course, we should not agree to an international regulatory framework that puts us at a disadvantage and risks our tax bases. The issue of taxation is national and should remain so. We should not agree to transfer power to the EU if it is not a good thing for Sweden. The Minister of Finance says that she will report the consequences to Parliament when the legislative package is already ready. However, the legislative package is based on negotiations in the EU where the Swedish people have given the government a mandate to negotiate, and then we must make sure that the government has the basis for its position in the negotiations in the EU. It is extremely worrying that you do not want to share it. In Sweden, Madam President, we have a fine tradition of trying to reach an agreement across the block on issues relating to international taxation. I think it would be very sad if the government abandoned it. In fact, it is fair that the Riksdag should be given access to the basis on which Sweden's position on international taxation issues is based. In order to ensure that we ensure our competitiveness and act for the best interests of Sweden in international negotiations, we need to have a basis. The government agreed that the Commission's evidence was inadequate and created its own. In fact, it is wrong for the government to cover it up, and it raises questions as to why it is being kept secret and what quality it holds. I think I will have reason to come back to this issue shortly. I'd like to take this opportunity to wish you a nice weekend.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-85	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder said I didn't talk enough about the tax base and the concerns about it. That is quite correct. The BEPS work has been going on for a long time, and there was a period of – what could it be – a year and a half ago where there was also quite a lot of concern on my part about what this would mean for the Swedish tax base. At the end of BEPS work there were a lot of changes that were beneficial for countries like Sweden. Sweden was very driven in this work, and we could also form alliances with other influential countries. The result of BEPS work was therefore from a Swedish perspective very much better than it seemed to be about a year and a half ago. Our assessment is therefore that what is contained in the BEPS agreement today will be of benefit to Sweden. At the same time, of course, in the BEPS work there are some paragraphs that benefit us and other paragraphs that may be on the negative side. When it comes to the formulation, where value is created, value is not created where things are sold, but, for example, where things are picked up and where research, development and marketing take place, and it is about much else of the value that is created at the Swedish headquarters. As regards the documents that are disclosed and not disclosed, we follow exactly the order that exists between the Government and the Riksdag. If you want to change that order, that is the question of principle to be raised and discussed. We fully follow the order that exists and that we have to stick to.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-89	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Finance. I would first like to say that I share the view of the Minister for Finance that a year and a half ago it looked more shaky and that it has become much better. However, it is precisely the wording, where value is created, that has created a discussion. I and the Minister of Finance may have the same idea of how to look at those words, but I believe that the other EU countries may have a different view of how to look at them. That is what causes my concern: we are a small country that will try to assert ourselves at the other end, but each country will look to its own tax base. I do not think that Germany or France might find it so interesting to safeguard the Swedish tax base, but we must do so. That is why I am perhaps more concerned than the Minister for Finance with regard to precisely the wording that creates value. I believe that this will mean that part of the Swedish tax base will end up somewhere else. I agree with the Minister for Finance that the BEPS work has moved in a positive direction – but not in this case. We in the committee have discussed this particular wording on several occasions, and we have come to the very name used by the Minister for Finance. However, I believe that this will create a major problem for the Swedish tax base, and we may not see that for three four years, when Swedish companies will pay tax on part of their sales elsewhere. I think that is something we are going to suffer from. Swedish society needs all the tax money it can get in. We have much to take care of, and we have many who need help and support in our country. Protecting the Swedish tax base is, I believe, part of being able to help them as much as possible.
i-66e2d4a7aa979c79-93	Madam President, I would like Of course, I understand Larry Söder's concerns. That is why I am very pleased that we achieved such a great success at the end of the BEPS work and that this looks much better than it did a year and a half ago. As has been said, the government's overall assessment is that this will be of benefit to Sweden. This applies not least to the fact that relative competition for Swedish companies will be improved when opportunities for aggressive tax planning are reduced in other countries. With regard to what has been said in the speaker's chair here, I think it is important to point out that the positions in this work that the government has been running in Brussels have been anchored in the EU Board, where all parties – including the Moderates – have supported them. All parties except the Swedish Democrats have supported the position the government has taken in Brussels and thought it is a good one.
