i-36fbcf57132591ac-6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Jan Björklund has asked me what extrajudicial executions I have referred to in the parliamentary debate on 4 December 2015. That debate took place in the light of the events of the previous two months, which were marked by violence not seen for a decade in Israel and in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem. To repeat what I said in my interpellation response then: during these two months 21 Israelis and 100 Palestinians were killed in connection with knife attacks, acts of violence, demonstrations and clashes. In October alone, the number of injured was 115 Israelis and 7,392 Palestinians, of which about 5,000 in tear gas attacks. As early as 28 October, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights made a statement referring to the fact that the Israeli response has been identified as disproportionate to the extent that extra-judicial killings could be strongly suspected. Human rights organisations and experts in international law have also expressed similar concerns. It is essential that thorough and credible investigations are carried out into these deaths in order to clarify and bring about possible accountability. I have similarly warned of what disproportionate use of violence could mean. As I have already made clear in a number of contexts, including in a joint statement with the Prime Minister of 6 December, I held in the current parliamentary debate a fundamental international legal argument on the right to defend oneself and on the importance of the principle of proportionality and distinction. In this context, as on many other occasions last autumn, I was very clear in my condemnation of the acts of violence perpetrated by Palestinians against Israelis. The use of violence, even during occupation, is strictly regulated by international law. Everyone involved should do their utmost to avoid disproportionate violence. The current situation is unsustainable. Violence must stop.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-10	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. During Margot Wallström's time as Foreign Minister, Sweden's relations with Israel and Palestine have changed quite substantially. For a long time Sweden had a balanced position in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Both during Göran Persson's government with Anna Lindh as Foreign Minister and under the alliance government, Sweden maintained a balanced position in that we criticised both sides, and we also acknowledged that both sides have points in their way of reasoning but that both sides are also wrong. However, during Margot Wallström's time, the rhetoric and action of the Swedish Government has shifted so that Sweden is now much more unilaterally perceived as taking a stand for the Palestinian party against Israel. It is unfortunate from several points of view. First of all, I think it is wrong in substance to have this attitude here, because both sides are partly right and both sides are wrong. Secondly, it also makes it difficult for Sweden to play any role in the region if we never have such good relations with the regime in Ramallah but completely demolish the bridges to the government in Israel. Then our opportunities to influence and participate in a positive development in the region will be non-existent. I would say that four different statements or decisions by Mrs Wallström affect this. The first is the recognition of Palestine. The second is the statements made by Mrs Wallström in connection with the terrorist attacks in Paris. The third is the statements here in Parliament on 4 December. The statements on both occasions have been strongly opposed by Israeli representatives, including Prime Minister Netanyahu. Fourthly, it is the rather inconsistent approach to the view of Israel's occupation of the West Bank compared with, for example, the position on Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara and how we should look at trade with these occupied territories. These four decisions or statements have in various ways affected and, overall, completely changed how Sweden is perceived to take a stand in this conflict, and that is unfortunate. Let's start with the confession itself. Sweden has not previously recognised states that we wish to be created, but we recognise states that actually exist. This state does not yet exist. I want a two-state solution, and so does Mrs Wallström. Most sensible actors want that, but Palestine does not yet exist as a state. When you recognise the state of Palestine as a state, it means doing so without a quid pro quo. The whole idea has been that the state of Palestine should be recognised as a state when Palestine itself recognises Israel as a state, which they do not. I assume that the Foreign Minister will deny this, but it is difficult to break the idea, Mr President, that action is also affected by the possibility of picking up as many votes as possible when it comes to Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council. When it comes to the view of Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara, this becomes even more strange, because the Swedish Government has acted fiercely to ensure that goods produced in the West Bank are labelled as originating, but when the EU says that the same principle should apply to goods from Western Sahara, Margot Wallström from the former Swedish position says no. So we have two completely different approaches to the occupations of the West Bank and Western Sahara. It is difficult to understand it if it is not about becoming popular both within the African Union and the Arab world, which cannot be excluded with regard to the candidacy that Sweden has for the UN Security Council.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-20	Mr President, I would like to This debate would be about the statement on extrajudicial executions, but I cannot help commenting on what has been said in general about the Palestinian conflict. If it is now the case that Palestine does not exist after all these years, after decade after decade of occupation, then it is time to do something different so that Palestine is actually allowed to exist. There are UN resolutions that are very clear about being a two-state solution. That is the line of Sweden, that is the line of the government and that is Mrs Wallström's line. We have all been clear about this. It is a two-state solution that is the objective of UN resolutions. If Palestine does not exist yet, I think it goes without saying that we should recognise Palestine, because if Israel and Palestine are to be treated as equal parties, we should at least recognise the party under occupation in violation of UN resolutions. There is reason to criticise the use of violence on both sides. But we must return the issue to the main problem. And that is that Israel is occupying Palestine in violation of UN resolutions. It has been going on for a long time and the occupation is being expanded in the form of settlements. The map is shrinking all the time. It is therefore high time to recognise Palestine, while there is one country left at all. In the case of extrajudicial executions, you can read in the Minutes and also look at the debate attended by Mrs Wallström. I think she expressed herself very balanced. She dissociated herself from the knife attacks. At the same time, however, it is important that the response is proportionate. International law must be respected, and those responsible must be brought to justice. This applies not only to those who represent the knife attacks, but, if there are suspicions of disproportionate violence, those responsible must be brought to justice. These are highly justified demands. It is not only the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights who has highlighted this. Amnesty, too, has done so in several reports. They have highlighted individual cases that are remarkable and where there is suspicion of extrajudicial executions. The least you can ask is for those cases to be investigated. If these are not extrajudicial executions, they should be clarified. One of the cases that Amnesty highlights is about a 17-year-old girl at the Hebron border crossing. She had to go through a metal detector with all her belongings. Her bags were searched. After that, warning shots were fired. She had her hands up in the air and was unarmed. Still, she was shot to death. It's possible Amnesty is wrong. In that case, however, this and other cases that have been highlighted should be investigated. Amnesty is talking about extrajudicial executions. The term "Executive executions" is also used by B 中 Tselem, an Israeli peace organisation. They say exactly the same thing: 'Man must end up with disproportionate violence, and we must investigate the suspected cases. There are also experts, including Anders Persson, who is a Middle East expert at Lund University, who says: What Mrs Wallström has said is by no means remarkable. This is in line with Amnesty's reports and other reports that have been highlighted. I do not understand why the question has been blown up to such gigantic proportions.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-29	Mr President, I would like to I want to follow up on what Hillevi Larsson was discussing what the Liberals have said about extrajudicial executions. Mr Hillevi referred in a rather exemplary way to how extrajudicial executions have been discussed, not least from Amnesty's perspective, Mr Tselem's perspective and several other organisations that have criticised Israel's actions. I would also like to raise a rather recent and topical issue in the discussion. This concerns events in the south-east of Turkey. I take them as an example in order to compare what is happening in Israel and what is happening in south-eastern Turkey. The Liberals have been very clear in their criticism of Turkey, of Ankara, of what is happening in the south-east of the country, but also of the Kurdish question. The liberals have been exemplary there. However, I do not find the same courage on the part of the Liberals on the issue of Palestine. In my opinion, there are quite a few parallels between what is happening in Palestine and what is happening in Turkey or Kurdistan. Recently 12 Kurdish youths between 18 and 25 were executed in the city of Van. They were shot down by Turkish security forces two days ago. Eleven of the youths were executed with one shot in the head, at fairly close range, and one was shot in the stomach. Six of them were students at the University of Van. Turkey says there was a shift of shots in the pursuit of terrorists. I would like to ask Jan Björklund a question. Does Jan Björklund think it is an extrajudicial execution, or does the Turkish military have the right to defend themselves and shoot down students whom they consider to be terrorists in some way? I draw that parallel because I see the same trend, the same development in Palestine. Israeli police use the same method. They shoot down young people who are said to have a knife. That is totally unacceptable. I think we agree to condemn the knife attacks. In the discussion, however, we must make it proportionate to what is happening in Palestine, in the Palestinian territories, not least in Jerusalem. I would like to have a comment on how you look at the various cases. Is it possible to compare them or equate them? Or do you have completely different views on them?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-35	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first stress the importance the government attaches to peace and security in Israel and Palestine. The aim is for the two countries to be able to live side by side, within mutually recognised borders, with the 1967 borders as their starting point and with Jerusalem as the capital of two states. Any land change shall be accepted only if the parties negotiate it. As we know, the peace negotiations have been stalled. The situation on the ground is so serious that the possibility of reaching a two-state solution is perishing. Everyone should know by now that there is no military solution to the conflict. Against this background, Sweden chose last year to recognise Palestine. And we're in good company. If I remember the figure correctly, 135 countries have recognised the state of Palestine. A little less unequal parties are needed to achieve results. The recognition of Palestine helps to reduce this imbalance. The confession also gives hope. Twenty-year-old Palestinians have experienced that most of it has become worse. At the same time, the lives of Israeli young people have been marked by fear, concern and fear of terrorist attacks. In both countries, resignation and radicalisation are increasing. Young people must be given a glimmer of hope. The situation is now extremely difficult. The status quo is John not sustainable and the fact of the math is that current trends, including violence, setment activity, Kerry, are empire the viability of a two-state solution. And that trend has to be revised to prevent this untenable one-state reality from taking hold. – – I can 中 t stress enough that the terror attacks are devastatin the hops of Israelis who want to believe that peace is possible and the violence must stop. ..................................................... It's clear what that means. This is an untenable situation. It's getting worse. Violence must stop. Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! The exchange of views on 4 December took place in the light of developments in the previous two months. They were marked by violence in Israel and the West Bank that we had not seen in a decade. At the end of October, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights made the statement referring to the Israeli response being so disproportionate that extra-judicial killings could be strongly suspected. The fact that an execution is extrajudicial means that it is executed without judicial review and death sentences. Since such executions take place outside the framework of the law, the victim has been deprived of all his rights. Therefore, extrajudicial executions are also difficult to establish. Human rights organisations, such as Amnesty International, and experts in international law have, as we have heard, expressed similar concerns. I have similarly warned of what disproportionate use of violence could mean. As I have made clear in the past, in the debate on 4 December, I held a principle of international law on the right of defence and on the importance of the principle of proportionality and distinction. Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to act to direct the attention of Sweden, the EU and the UN to the situation in Israel and Palestine – both countries have a natural right to exist – so that the inhabitants can live, develop and feel good within safe and recognised borders.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-44	Mr President, I would like to As I said, both the Palestinian and the Israeli sides deserve criticism. The speakers here are now criticising Israel. Yes, that should be done, and above all criticism should be levelled at Israel's settlement policy. This is the most serious criticism because it clearly makes a future peace settlement difficult. Similarly, serious criticism must be made of the Palestinian side, not primarily of Abbas, although he is a weak leader. Abbas's basic attitude is wise, but he has no control over Palestine. That's the problem. Surely it is not excluded that the basis for democratic elections not being held in Palestine – although it should have been held several years ago – is that the government would lose the elections. At least that's a perfectly possible explanation. This is a totally unacceptable attitude, but it is because there is no strong support from the Palestinian people for the peace policy pursued by Abbas. That, of course, is what the Israelis know and are afraid of. Then both sides trigger each other. My point is not that Israel does not deserve criticism – it deserves both Israel and the Palestinian side. My point is that the new Swedish government's policy is totally one-sided. After all, very slight criticism is being levelled at Palestine. When did Margot Wallström demand that Palestine have democratic elections? When did she demand it in a way that was noticed and heard? It is possible that it says somewhere, but the criticism of Israel is heard all over the world time and again. The attitude of the new government on these issues is one-sided. The speakers here say that they recognise Palestine because they want a two-state solution. But I'm sorry, I guess Göran Persson and Anna Lindh wanted that too. Didn't they want a two-state solution? Of course they wanted it. But they did not recognise Palestine, nor did the alliance government. But we also wanted a two-state solution. It is a question of putting pressure on the Palestinians. They will be recognized as a state on the day they are prepared to recognise Israel. But Palestine does not recognise Israel. That's the point. The Palestinian side says it wants to establish a Palestinian state in occupied areas. Abbas then means the 1967 borders, but quite a few Palestinians mean the 1948 borders, that is, Israel will cease to exist. That is the problem, that there are quite a few on the Palestinian side who want to wipe out Israel completely. That's what Hamas wants. When Israel withdrew from the illegal occupation of southern Lebanon, following demands from the outside world, what happened? Well, the Palestinians fired rockets into Israel from that area. When you withdrew from Gaza, rockets were fired from there. Clearly, one can have some understanding that Israel is reluctant to withdraw from the areas around Jerusalem because one is terrified that rockets will be fired from there. If so, they will be shot to Israel's very heartland. Israel has legitimate security requirements, as the Palestinians show, that they could in no way live up to at the same time as the Israelis for a settlement policy that is international law-worshipping. This means that the necessary balance is now lacking in Swedish action. We wish the government restored it. I would like the Foreign Minister to answer the two questions I put. Firstly, what is the difference in principle that justifies the government's different stance on Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara? Secondly, what will the government do to restore balance in its attitude towards Israel and Palestine?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-55	Mr President, I would like to It is quite right that Ha mas is a major problem. One reason why democratic elections have not been held is that Hamas has opposed it. At the same time, it is absolutely crucial that there is cooperation between Fatah and Hamas. Even if we wish that it was not necessary, cooperation is needed in order to keep the Palestinian side together at all. It is therefore easy to conclude that Hamas is the main problem. The government is cooperating with Fatah and Abbas, and that is one way of trying to strengthen that side. But there is also a desperation and abandonment after all the years of occupation, of settlements spreading, and of violence and oppression. It contributes to a radicalisation that risks strengthening forces such as Hamas. Therefore, it is quite right for the government to try to strengthen the moderate forces. That's the path there is. The government is accused of trying to support with aid, of recognising Palestine and of supporting Abbas. That criticism leads to the question: What should we do instead? Nevertheless, this is a way of trying to steer development in a peaceful direction, while at the same time becoming more equal between the parties, between Israel and Palestine. Although criticism can also be levelled at the Palestinian side, it is a fact that it is the Palestinians who have been under occupation for many decades. They're Israelis who are being killed. Every life is worth as much whether people are killed on the Palestinian side or on the Israeli side. Each case is one too many, but there are so many more on the Palestinian side. In fact, I think we should have recognised Palestine earlier. Nevertheless, it is a first step to show that we see Israel and Palestine as equal partners.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-60	Mr President, I would like to I did not really get the answer to my question, but perhaps we can come back to it on another occasion. With regard to extrajudicial executions, the Israeli human rights organisation B' Tselem, mentioned earlier, in an open letter to Netanyahu, calls for a halt to this summer's horrific string of summary street executions, thus putting an end to this summer's horrifying summary street executions. This letter has the title. Your silence permits street executions, i.e. your silence approves street executions. As mentioned earlier, several organisations, including Al Mezan, B' Tselem and Amnesty, have criticised Israel's new order to use live ammunition in the event of disturbances. That is why it is important – as human rights organisations demand – to investigate what has happened. What we have seen so far is that the Prime Minister has not approved or set up any investigations, but has been quiet. I believe that Israel as a legal society has a duty to investigate the shootings by Israeli military and police. Pending this, there will be quite a lot of speculation about what has actually happened. If Israel is to continue to call itself a functioning rule of law, I believe that these shootings should be investigated. It would be interesting to hear Jan Björklund talk about this.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-65	Mr President, I would like to The social democrats are slowly putting the whole blame on the Israeli side. They say that this should be investigated and that the criticism that exists should be taken seriously. Absolutely, but you do not mention the causes of the violence and the situation today and have been for several months in Israel. We see daily knife attacks on Israeli civilians. There are a number of horrible movies to watch from various surveillance cameras in Israel where civilian - dressed persons approach Israeli military, police or guard and pretend to ask, for example, about the way. All of a sudden, there's a knife coming out that's going crazy with it. Then, of course, shoots the police or the military, so do all the police and the military in such situations. That is the situation that we look like is taking place. It has not happened once or twice or three times, but it happens every day and has done so for several months. If the situation were to be translated into another country in the world, Europe or the Nordic region, we would put a much greater focus on that basic situation. In this context, it should also be remembered that Israel is a functioning rule of law. You have a high court and a court system. Persons suspected of having committed crimes are brought to justice in accordance with the rules of law and in accordance with the same principles as apply in Sweden. The Israeli Supreme Court has also limited the capabilities of military intelligence in a very good way, I personally think. But Israel is a functioning rule of law. Of course, the rule of law is not perfect. It is not that you get to exactly all the crime, but you have a working legal system. There is one more important factor, I think, and that is leadership. There have been times when Israeli civilians attacked Palestinian civilians. It is far less common than the opposite, but we have seen such cases, even recently. The Israeli leadership will then be very forceful. Prime Minister Netanyahu and other political leaders are extremely strong against this. You dunk everything you can, you get in touch with the victims and so on. I would like to see that kind of leadership from the Palestinian side too. Instead of sometimes saying things such as that Israelis and Jews should not enter certain areas with their dirty feet, we should clearly and always distance ourselves from this terrorism.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-70	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your contributions. First of all, I'm going to try to stick to the subject of interpellation. Secondly, there is much that we agree on, as Jan Björklund has also said. A lot has happened in the last ten years. In a situation where violence and hopelessness are increasing and rhetoric is sharpened, it is even more important to safeguard dialogue and diplomacy as our main tools. I have expressly dissociated myself from violence against civilians. I have made it clear that all acts of terrorism are reprehensible and must be condemned. In connection with the recent acts of violence in Israel and Palestine last autumn, I did so in a speech to the UN Security Council, in a debate article in the Israeli media and on several other occasions. I have no problem agreeing with what Mathias Sundin says about the fear of this kind of terrible deed. My condemnations have concerned acts by both Palestinians and Israelis. I have also stressed the importance of bringing guilty persons to justice. The government's support for a two-state solution in the Middle East peace process is based on the goal that Israel and Palestine – I repeat – should be able to live side by side in peace and security. Israel's security is a fundamental element of our commitment to the peace process. We strive from the Swedish side to continue to be a friend of both Israel and Palestine, while being clear on issues where there is disagreement. Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I object to any attempt to paint Sweden, our government or myself as Israel's enemies. We're not, on the contrary. Developing and deepening relations with one country does not mean that we distance ourselves from the other. I would like to repeat that: Sweden is a friend of Israel, just as we are a friend of Palestine. Both countries have a self-evident right to exist, live, develop and feel well within safe and recognised borders, and the only way to achieve this goal if a two-state solution is a peace process. In the long run, it benefits both Israel and Palestine, and that is something that we, as friends of both countries, are extremely concerned about.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-75	Mr President, I would like to When assessing whether the government's action towards Palestine is relevant or not, we must put it in parity with what is the case with other similar areas of the world. Mrs Wallström says that the government is clear. My point is that that clarity is extremely selective. They try to be very clear with Israel, but are enormously unclear in many other contexts. It's a choice the government makes. Palestine is recognised as a state, although the state does not yet exist. There are a lot of states I would like to see arose. I would like Western Sahara to become a state, but I am not asking the government to recognise Western Sahara, because it does not yet exist as a state. Tibet, I would also like to be a state of its own, but no government in the West dares to recognise Tibet, because it would annoy China. I would also like Kurdistan to be a state of its own. But you cannot start to recognize states just because you want them to arise! That's when they're states you do. The problem with Palestine is that this is not the case. It is said that Palestine does not have control over its territory. Yes, but it's the Israelis' fault, some might say. Well, even if you rule it out, Palestine does not have control over its territory. Hamas controls a large part of the territory and is not prepared to recognise Israel. Hamas wants to use a Palestinian state to destroy Israel. You have to understand that. Hamas is in control of Gaza, and they may even win general elections today. That is probably why general elections are not being called in Palestine. The government is inconsistent. It is precisely with regard to Israel that we are prepared to go very far. All the statements made by the Israeli Government to Mrs Wallström and the Swedish Government are extremely sharp. But somehow the Swedish Government ignores it. You become popular in the Arab world and in the Arab League through your actions in Western Sahara, but it is incomprehensiblely inconsistent. What about now, Mrs Wallström – why should goods from the West Bank be labelled as originating, while goods from Western Sahara should not be the same?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-79	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jan Björklund for his contributions. I think he's the only one who calls me unclear. I usually get criticism for the opposite. As we have seen recently, the absence of hope is one of the absolute greatest challenges we face in trying to achieve the objectives of peace and security for both Israel and Palestine. I hope it is not too late for deescalation and peace in this region. It is time to create the conditions for a more result-oriented peace process, and this must include confidence-building measures, such as a freeze on settlement building. It is time to implement the agreements reached between Palestine and Israel, and it is time to break Gaza's isolation and cooperate for all parts of Palestine. We fully agree on that. It is time to remove the obstacles to economic development throughout Palestine, including area C and Gaza. It is also time for international commitments with clear parameters and a timeframe for negotiations and for an end to occupation. It is time for an end to violence. We must not lose sight of the main objective – an end to the occupation and a negotiated two-state solution in which Palestine and Israel live side by side in peace and security. I repeat.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-85	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Tobias Billström has asked me how I assess the progress of the ongoing negotiations on the future of Cyprus and what measures I and the government intend to take to help bring about concrete progress in the negotiations. The negotiations are now at an intense stage. Progress has been made, but the main issues have not yet been resolved. The process is owned and determined by the parties themselves. The UN supports the negotiation under the leadership of the Envoy Espen Barth Eide. The government welcomes and commends the commitment and leadership shown by President Anastasiades of Cyprus and Turkish Cypriot leader Akıncı during the process. Reunification would strengthen the UN's authority in the region and significantly improve the EU's capacity to address the challenges in the immediate region. Several parties are now expressing hopes that they will soon be able to reach a negotiated settlement and then hold referendums on both sides in 2016. At the same time, it is difficult to speculate at this stage on just when a deal can be reached. Sweden has a long-standing commitment, not least as a force contributor to the UN operation. Today we are contributing to a solution along two main tracks. Firstly, we do so by supporting and faciliterating the so-called religious track, Religious Track, which aims at dialogue and cooperation between the religious communities and leaders of Cyprus in the process of peace and reconciliation, and to ensure that the interests and rights of religious groups are safeguarded in the peace process. Secondly, we do so by supporting, in cooperation with think tanks in Cyprus, seminars and reports demonstrating the positive economic consequences of reunification. Public support, on both sides, is crucial to achieving a solution. It is the people of Cyprus who decide their future. It is against this background that the current Swedish initiatives should be seen. We want to promote a reliable and objective discussion. The EU's efforts to facilitate the integration of northern Cyprus into the EU are of particular importance. The government is also working to ensure that Turkey's and the EU's ambitions to develop cooperation support efforts to resolve the Cyprus conflict. We welcome Turkey's declared desire to reach a settlement, which would also affect the conditions for Turkey's European approach in a fundamental and positive direction. This also increases our ability to promote the necessary reforms within Turkey. Over the last six months, I have had meetings with representatives of both sides in connection with the meetings of the EU Foreign Ministers and the UN General Assembly. In October, the Cabinet Secretary visited Cyprus, where she held several meetings with key figures and hosted a meeting with Religious Track at the Swedish residence. We want to continue to play an active role in the reunification of the coming year within the UN and through the EU, as well as through bilateral initiatives and contacts.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer to my interpellation, Minister for Foreign Affairs. The ongoing negotiations between the Turkish and Cypriot governments are undoubtedly of great regional and international importance. The possibility of ending the conflict that began in connection with the Turkish occupation in 1974, which has now been going on for more than 40 years, is perhaps for the first time in sight. The first steps towards healing the wounds then opened between the Greek-Cypriot and Turkish-Cypriot groups may then be initiated. Cyprus's precarious position, both in international and state law, is currently exerting a bad influence on both the region and the European Union. Why, then, should Sweden become more involved in this particular issue compared to other comparable foreign policy issues? There are several good reasons for that. The conflict has a negative impact on Turkey in a situation where the EU needs to strengthen its relationship and ability to engage constructively with the state. The current migration crisis is perhaps the most visible exponent of the need. But there is certainly no reason to remove obstacles to political rapprochement between the EU and Turkey. Cyprus is, in this context, a key factor, and it is good that the government recognises this. Another reason, of course, is what I already touched upon in my interpellation, our good reputation linked to the peace-keeping operation Unficyp. Several Swedish governments of different political colours have been deeply involved in the mission. It has not been partisan. Another reason is our traditionally good political relations with both Nicosia and Ankara and Athens, not to forget. We are a state which in all its parts can take on the role of an active and reliable partner in finding solutions to the Cyprus conflict, particularly as a Member State of the European Union, but also bilaterally and within the United Nations. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs briefly touches on the economic aspects of reunification. I would be interested to hear more about the government's reasoning on what appears to be probably the most complex area, namely what concerns lost property after the invasion and occupation in 1974.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-101	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me emphasise once again the importance that the government attaches to finding a solution to the Cyprus question. As we can both see, it is both important for Cyprus itself and crucial for Turkey's membership negotiations with the European Union, and therefore it is important for the future of the European Union as a whole. As Tobias Billström rightly points out, Sweden has a long-standing commitment, among other things, as a force supporter in the UN operation. We also run what I told you about, the Swedish initiative Religious Track from the embassy that we have in place in Nicosia. It's been exciting. It aims to get religious leaders – mainly the Muftin and the Greek Orthodox Archbishop – to develop constructive contributions to the complex issues of reconciliation between the main groups of conflict. It is also about improving the situation of religious freedom, the right to celebrate worship, freedom of movement, cultural heritage issues and the place of those issues in the peace process. These are very exciting and interesting questions. The key issues that need to be resolved in order for it really to come to an end are matters of governance. How will a reunited Cyprus be ruled? It's about territory. How is it to be distributed among the two communities? This is about property, which of course is always very sensitive. How should it be returned and compensated? It is also about security, guarantees, autonomy and self-determination. How are you supposed to make sure of that? The objective remains to resolve these interlinked issues within a comprehensive negotiating solution. Nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. Then they expect referendums on both sides. It is the people of Cyprus who will finally decide their future. The popular support cannot be taken for granted. I'm sure Tobias Billström knows that too. Actual information and communication will be important. The timetable is not fixed, but the quality shall apply. That's what comes first. The UN has expressed hopes that an agreement will be reached early in the spring of this year. The future reunification process will raise several important issues such as Northern Cyprus in the EU. There are a number of supplementary questions about this. In response to your specific question about the economy, I can say that none of the parties has yet presented an analysis of the financing needs. It is very sensitive to outside interference before a solution has been reached. The international community will contribute resources. It is mainly about compensation and compensation for lost property, necessary infrastructure and new housing linked to an agreement. This also applies to efforts to adapt the northern part of the EU. That's what you can mention. But there are really no calculations or figures from either party so far. But it is quite right to point out that it will be central.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-108	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue of great importance and central importance. There are three methods of principle to make up for those who have left home. There is re-entry, compensation and exchange. As far as the properties in the north are concerned, it is quite obvious that the Greek Cypriots are concerned about the interests of the rightful owners, while the Turkish Cypriots, for their part, are looking after those who have perhaps for decades used the properties. There must, of course, be a balance between those interests. Taking into account similar issues where compensation issues have been raised – the aftermath of the Balkan wars as well as the Palestinian issue, which are good examples of bad examples – it is important to point out that a solution must not have serious social consequences. It could build on exactly the kind of destabilising effects that must be avoided in order for reunification to be of a lasting and lasting nature. Here, too, the Swedish Government must engage appropriately to support a political solution based on the principles and values of the European Union. The question also relates to the question of territory, that is, how the line between the two constituent states should go. The Turkish Cypriot leader Ak ı nc ı claims that each zone must be guaranteed to have its own majority in its own zone in terms of population and total property area, while President Anastasiadis claims that such permanent measures are contrary to the EU akin and the four freedoms of EU citizens. According to President Anastasiadis, what is to be guaranteed is that each population group should never be politically dominated by the other. A possible solution could therefore be transitional periods. According to UN input from the European Union, which, as I understand it, now has a permanent expert in Nicosia, is needed here. Swedish attention would also be desirable in this respect. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will be happy to elaborate on this in his next speech. I also have a specific question for the Foreign Minister. On 8 December, the Secretary-General informed the Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee of the forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council on 14 December. After the cabinet secretary announced that the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs would be present at lunch with the ministers, I asked a specific question whether the government intended to raise the Cyprus question on the occasion of the Turkish Minister's visit. My impression from the cabinet secretary's very comprehensive reply was that this was the case. My question to the Foreign Minister today, almost a month after the December Council meeting was held, is: did the government raise the Cyprus issue during lunch or in any bilateral talks in connection with the meeting?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-115	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important issue not only for Cyprus but for the European Union, the Middle East and so on. The occupation of northern Cyprus has been going on for decades. We also see a settlement policy, and we see how the occupying power of Turkey today, in recent weeks, has also been engaged in extra-judicial executions in Kurdish areas in south-eastern Turkey. I am struck by the fact that the Foreign Minister is happy to turn around with these expressions when it comes to another occupation, namely that of the West Bank in Palestine. But when it comes to the occupation of northern Cyprus, there is a completely different sound in the bark of the Foreign Minister. It now states that the EU's efforts to facilitate the integration of northern Cyprus into the EU are of particular importance, and the economic emphasis is placed. As far as the occupation of the West Bank is concerned, products must therefore be labelled as originating; the economy must be isolated. However, as far as the occupation economy in northern Cyprus is concerned, it must be integrated into the European Union. I would like the Foreign Minister to discuss the consequences. Is this not a rather inconsistent approach? In the previous interpellation debate, the Foreign Minister refused to answer questions concerning Morocco and products from Western Sahara. I now ask the same question: how does the Foreign Minister view the occupation of northern Cyprus in relation to the West Bank? Why should one have an occupation policy and another for another? That's the question. Mr President, I would like to I am struck by the fact that it says that we welcome Turkey's declared desire to reach a settlement. But is that will particularly pronounced? The entire EU process has been blocked for almost ten years due to Turkey's refusal to allow Cypriot vessels to dock Turkish ports. Turkey has in practice sacrificed its membership of the European Union because of the Cyprus question because it is so upset that it does not feel that it has been paid enough for the Annan plan and the vote in 2004. I would like to know how the Minister for Foreign Affairs is discussing this stated will on the part of Turkey. I have not seen it – not in the last decade and unfortunately not in the last four decades either.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-121	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I do not really know where Fredrik Malm is, but there is currently a negotiation process – a very vivid negotiation – about the future of Cyprus. It's moving forward. We are discussing issues of compensation, and we are talking about solving all these concrete issues that are necessary for the reconciliation of Cyprus at last. That's the most important thing right now. How do we contribute constructively to this? Just to complement what I said earlier on economic issues and financing needs, the IMF and the World Bank are currently analysing these resource needs. We from the Swedish side have funded a priority study that looked at the economic benefits of reunification. The overall need for financing of infrastructure and housing directly linked to an agreement was estimated at EUR 10 billion. In various assessments of the total volume, the figure of EUR 25 billion has been mentioned. However, none of the parties has so far come up with the corresponding financing needs that have been calculated in this way. I believe that the mistake in the last round, in 2004, when the so-called Annan Plan was drawn up, was that it was a little too hasty to solve complex problems on the part of the international community. It was just before Cyprus would become a member of the European Union, and the world was eager that the conflict would be resolved before Cyprus entered the European Union. It ended with a referendum in which the Cypriot President conducted an election campaign against the advanced solution to the conflict. Therefore, clear Cypriot ownership of the whole process is now a key to resolving the issue in this round. I also believe that the international community has learned from the mistakes of 2004. Both the UN and the EU are clearer with the importance of having Cypriot ownership and a greater awareness of achieving higher quality rather than a rapid agreement. That's why I'm hopeful. Turkey is not a party to the negotiation, but as a guarantor they have a clear role to play in the issue of security and guarantees. The military presence of Turkey is an issue that must be dealt with within the framework of a negotiated solution. Therefore, constructive action by Turkey is a prerequisite for resolving the conflict. Now several chapters of Turkey's EU approach are also blocked and the negotiation process is blocked because they have not recognised Cyprus as a result of the conflict. That is why, of course, this would also affect Turkey's entire cooperation with the EU. We appreciate the good dialogue that exists. We will continue to engage from the Swedish side. I know nothing but that if the cabinet secretary says she is going to do something or has done something, it is also very much true. Let me check exactly what was said, but I trust the cabinet secretary.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-128	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the stated promise in the speaker's seat! I am counting on us to get feedback on this. An important observation is that a reunited Cyprus will be able to represent significantly stronger membership than it has today, with a clearer voice in the European Union. It is in everyone's interest that this should be the case. We are living in times when the ambition to reduce the tension and tension areas that we have and to work for more of global consensus to be very high on the agenda. Of course, there is a positive allocation in the Foreign Minister's response to me and at all in the allocation here today. However, we should be aware that there is still a lot of hard work to be done at the negotiating table, not least in terms of getting Turkey to fulfil its obligations and reaching a consensus on the issues that we have touched on here today in the debate. Words must be followed by action. Let me just conclude by pointing out the facts in the region. A lasting and lasting solution to the Cyprus conflict will also free our Union – the European Union – from the problems that both the occupation and the split have posed in our common relationship with Turkey. This is a macro-political objective which in itself is reason enough to call on the government to further increase its interest in the issue and actively seek ways to make substantial contributions to the process, both within the EU and bilaterally and within the UN, if possible. With this hope, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the debate.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-133	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware that there are negotiations and other things going on. It does so all the time as far as Cyprus is concerned. Every year the UN says: this year it will be the year of Cyprus! Every year the year ends by realizing that it was not the year of Cyprus this year. This is a long drawn-out conflict. Of course, any pragmatic way of trying to solve this is important. It is clear that negotiations are very important, but we must understand that the basic problem is the occupation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs then says that Turkey as a guarantee power has a clear role to play in security. Yes, that's right. They're there. Turkey has seized half of the island in an occupation that has been going on for decades. It is clear that it is problematic, and it is at least as problematic to see Turkey now acting in the direction of being, in practice, a fully-fledged AKP dictatorship with enormous and monstrous abuse of the Kurdish population right now. In the same way, action is being taken in Syria and elsewhere. I find it very difficult to see, Mr President, how Turkey should play the constructive role that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so clearly makes clear that they are doing and arguing about. I haven't seen this. There are many unsolved wounds and conflicts in this region, but they are not remedied by the way Turkey is acting at the moment. It makes a solution difficult in Syria and within Turkey, and in the same way, unfortunately, it should not be too positive that it will lead to a solution in Cyprus either.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-138	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get much good advice or suggestions on how to do it. Right now I can see that Tobias Billström and I agree on the importance of a solution to the conflict in Cyprus and that Sweden will continue to play an active role in this. I have also received ideas on further areas where we need to get involved. That is a wise point of view on where to seek a supportive and active role. What we can see today is, in any case, a willingness on the part of the parties to reach an agreement which is both fair and of high quality and which they believe can win the support of the populations in a future referendum. We must also try to get Turkey involved in a constructive role in resolving this issue. Then there are many other things to say about Turkey's actions, but this is the process that is currently under way and on which we have a position. Ultimately, only the Cypriots themselves can decide their future, and it is the leaders of Cyprus who must reach an agreement. In this they must receive the full and constructive support of the international community and ours. I would like to thank you for a good debate. It is always more fun when you get to debate with someone who also knows the questions inside and outside and who is genuinely interested. I thank you for that, and I think we need to work together on this issue as well.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-143	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me whether, in accordance with Parliament's decision, I intend to wind up the task assigned to Bromma airport by the negotiating officer appointed by the government. On 18 December 2015, the Government decided to change the assignment to the coordinator of Bromma Airport. Only that part of the assignment that intends to test the conditions for developing flight capacity and increasing the opportunities for residential buildings in the Stockholm region will now be implemented and reported by 31 March 2016. The documentation that the coordinator will present should, according to the Government's assessment, be the subject of public debate before it is used as a basis for any further decision. Through the decision, the Government has responded to Parliament's announcements on Bromma airport. The government pursues its intention to develop a knowledge base through the coordinator, but does not allow the coordinator to take any action based on this evidence through the amended decision. In this context, I would like to inform the Riksdag that the Government has received no request from any other municipality for state coordination for any other city-by-city airport and that there will therefore be no need to appoint additional coordinators. The coordinator has been given time by the government to complete the work under way with the support of authorities and consultants. My hope and the Government's hope is that the coordinator's report and the reactions it faces will provide a better basis for making long-term well-balanced assessments for air traffic, residential expansion and the Stockholm region's development.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-147	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sometimes it is not only Santa Claus who comes during Christmas, but there are also good government decisions – however, more during previous terms of office with the Alliance Government than during this one. A good decision that came, even if it was late, was that one finally listened to what a majority in the Riksdag has said for a very long time, that is, that one should not complete the investigation mission. The S- and MP government we have worked hard to try to find ways to close down Bromma airport, and this investigation has obviously been part of this. The Government of Kaplan also appointed the investigation with the aim of just closing down Bromma airport. As I said, there has always been a majority in the Swedish Parliament against closing down Bromma airport. According to the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, the closure of Bromma airport would have meant 24 000 job losses across Sweden. Bromma has therefore never been a Stockholm issue. I hear the Minister talk about development and growth in Stockholm, but Bromma airport has never been a Stockholm issue, no more than Arlanda is a Stockholm issue. It is all about Sweden's ability to get to the capital and also from there. It is therefore about jobs and opportunities throughout Sweden when we talk about the two Stockholm Airports we have. The government finally had to give up its efforts to close Bromma Airport, of course, welcomes me and the entire Alliance, but it is above all a victory for jobs and growth in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to What is sad about this is that it took as long as it did and that there was a lot of concern during the time out there in the country whether you would have continued good access to your capital at pektides.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-152	Mr President, I would like to I have nothing to add on the matter.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-153	Mr President, I would like to Nor do I have any further comments.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-154	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me what the continuation of the process is like when it comes to the round table on the illegal dissemination and consumption of copyrighted material and what measures I will take to strengthen Swedish companies within the creative industries. The Round Table began on 5 November. It was a positive meeting with good and constructive talks. On 9 December, the European Commission presented a Communication on planned actions in the field of copyright. The Communication addressed, inter alia, the issue of measures against copyright infringement. It is interesting to note that the Commission will take immediate action to set up and implement mechanisms, together with all interested parties, to cut the money flows to those who infringe copyright on a commercial scale. The aim is for an agreement on codes of conduct to be reached already this spring. I have now called another meeting, on 3 February, where we will discuss, among other things, what the continuation of the work process should be like. As regards measures to strengthen Swedish companies in the cultural and creative industries, this issue is addressed in the export strategy launched by the Government on 28 September. In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government proposes an investment of SEK 150 million for export promotion measures, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The strategy identifies the cultural and creative sectors, for example, as regards actions for innovative and timely internationalised enterprises, and as regards efforts to increase the internationalisation of cultural and creative industries, together with stakeholders, and to promote culture-driven exports.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-158	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister for your answer. Copyright problems and film policy have been discussed by the Minister and I in the past. There was a study by Mediavision last spring. It shows that about 30 per cent of Swedes download or stream films or television programmes from copyright-protected sources. They do this four to five times a month. Converted, it is 800 million kronor that disappears from the film industry. This is clear from the Mediavision study. This is probably the most common crime in Sweden today. It is clear that it is problematic when individuals make downloads, but it is even more problematic when organised crime is behind and earns big money. Here I believe that the Minister, the Government and I share the problem picture and believe that something needs to be done. In the long run, cultural and creative industries become less profitable, and in yet another extension it leads to more poor film and culture. Then what's in the toolbox? There are communicative initiatives here. We can influence the attitude of the questions, that is, it is not legal to download and simply not to do so. The industry itself can take action. Furthermore, we can make laws and change the legislation in different ways. Now the minister and the government have invited to round table discussions. I welcome this and I think it is a good thing. A first round table has been held. Then there was a little pause in the process. I understand that the reason for this was for the European Commission to come up with a communication, and now it has come. And now the Minister has invited another meeting. In view of this, I have two questions. My first question concerns the EU track. What copyright issues drive the Minister and government in the EU? In other words, if there is work going on to change and improve mainly in the field of piracy, is the government taking the initiative to promote the Swedish cultural and creative industry? My second question concerns the round table itself. The Minister and the Government have selected the actors that have been invited. It is good that it is a broad industry perspective with many different actors. Will the Minister and the Government act on the proposals made by these actors?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-165	Mr President, I would like to As the Member of Parliament began with, we agree on a great deal, including the need for changes to be made. The industry and Sweden are missing out on a lot of resources when commercial operators on a large scale commit illegality. This brings me to the answer to one question about what line the government should take in the EU. As the honourable Member says, this is an EU issue that is really on the table, not least in view of the communication the Commission presented on 9 December. The Commission states that they will take immediate action to reach agreement, in consultation with all interested parties, on the application of follow-up money strategies in the form of self-regulation. This is one of the main strands of the lines that the government will operate. It's an important effort. This is also where I feel that there is a great deal of support from the industry. When I invited to the first big round table, I wanted to bring the whole chain with me. The whole chain would be covered with a number of actors. When I called around after our first round table to make sure that they wanted to keep going – it wasn't obvious; several actors had been in talks with the previous government and didn't know that they led to anything – I got confirmation from all the invited ones that they wanted to continue the conversation. They believe that there are things to do that can move the issue in the right direction alongside legislation. It is in addition to legislation that the Commission also writes that it should continue to work, and that is the line the government will take. I will take this line at the round tables and with the other Ministers for Culture. I would like to ask the honourable Member a question. Now, as in previous talks, the honourable Member has pointed out that legislation is crucial and emphasised that we will not achieve it unless we also legislate. What makes the Member of Parliament distrust the industry's willingness and own understanding of taking measures that contribute to change alongside legislation? Why not now take that chance and opportunity? I have one more question. Why did the previous government not do more when it was in power for eight years?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-171	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely correct and good to follow the money. The EU is on the right track. But you can't just have one trace. There must be more tracks, and you have to work on several different arenas. If the industry takes certain measures, if we legislate and there is also a communicative effort, it will be a broad spectrum and we can meet the needs. It is quite right that I have tabled three legislative proposals. One is to introduce criminal fraud gross copyright infringement and increase the scale of penalties. It gives the police and prosecutors new opportunities. It would also be a clear indication on the part of society of what is illegal and that we will fight to catch those who are grossly exploiting the opportunities and making great financial gain. I have also said that there is a lack of clarity in the legislation on streaming. The downloading of illegal material is illegal, but there is uncertainty about streaming. That uncertainty should be corrected. Furthermore, it is a question of blocking sites that contain highly copyrighted material. After a judicial review, one could allow a blockage of these sites so that it is not possible to access the material. This has a lot of support and popular support, according to the survey. As the Minister says, it is good to take on board what the industry wants. I hope the Minister and the government want to do it. I have looked at some of the documents submitted at the first round table, including from Sweden's Advertisers and the Film and TV industry's Cooperation Committee. They want to introduce the criminal offence of gross copyright infringement. It's one of the suggestions from me and the Moderates. "Recokulture" is the title of a document submitted by the Swedish Publishers' Association, the Rights Alliance and the Music Publishers. They say, among other things, that they want to introduce serious copyright offences into the copyright law. They also say that the legislation must be technology neutral and also include streaming, just what I and the Moderates are talking about. Furthermore, they want sites that publish large amounts of copyrighted material after judicial review to be blocked. These are precisely the proposals that we have debated and I have highlighted. I believe that the proposals should not be introduced immediately, but first examined to see if they are worth looking at. This has been done in some other Nordic countries, where there is actually less piracy than in Sweden. The question goes back to the Minister. I am not ruling out either communicative actions or the industry's own proposals in terms of following the money. But why does the Minister exclude the legislative proposals? Why not follow the advice that the documents show that the industry itself has presented to the government?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-180	Mr President, I would like to I know that copyright is important and central to ensuring that cultural workers are paid for their work. It is also important that we in the Swedish Parliament have a consensus on as many issues as possible and work long-term. That is why I am very pleased with this discussion and to get to know the Member of Parliament more and more after hearing his proposal to the Swedish Parliament and other articles that the Member of Parliament has written in articles and so on. I very much welcome this interest. But I would also like to emphasise my point of departure in the entire palette of the government and why I have such a focus on all this that is not legislation. I am not saying that legislation is not needed. This applies to all of Sweden's policies and the foundations on which our rule of law is based. Of course, it is extremely important that Minister of Justice Johansson is active and follows the processes that are currently going on, not least at European level, and the legal processes that are going on in our country. But I do not want to give up a question when there is such a clear need to work with other tools as well. The documents referred to by the Member of Parliament were submitted at the beginning of the only and first meeting we had. During the meeting I was very clear about what kind of meeting it was, the round table where the Member of Parliament was not present but where the different actors in the food chain were involved. Then I stressed that this is not a process that will be about us working out new proposals for laws, but this is a process in which I would first like to agree if they believe that we can do other things besides the law that can still have an effect. After the meeting, all the actors believed it. Now we will have to take the next step on 3 February, and then it is extremely important that there should not be a talk club but that we can actually put into practice what we mean by other tools that can have an effect on what we want to achieve. Nevertheless, I would like to say this – it may not be a question that goes back to the Member of Parliament, but it is a wish: let us now try this other one with strength, and let us do it together! It would be fantastic if we could show that not only the government but also the Swedish parliament wants to work with and seriously try the other. In fact, this has not been done forcefully in the past – it must also be the Member of Parliament – during the eight years when we had another government.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-187	Mr President, I would like to At the moment, I'd like to switch tracks to the target for this. The minister himself has said that one goal is to reduce the piracyn and that she and the government will return with a more specific goal after talking to the industry. I have previously referred to some figures on how big the problem is. That's Mediavision's numbers. I'm sure there are other numbers, but that's what I have on my table. It would be interesting to know whether the government and the minister have different figures and what figures they will use as a basis once they set the target. It would be interesting to have a comment on that. If there is some sort of specific objective already after the first meeting, it would be interesting to hear it too. I see that one of the actors is the film and television industry's working party, which aims to reduce the piracy by 50% within a year. That's a very brave goal, I suppose. If it's going to happen, the clock is ticking a little bit. There are almost three months between the first round table and the second round table. It is clear that no solution will be found at the second meeting, but it will be a process that will take a while. Here I think it's time to get real. The minister himself uses the whole palette – the government wants to look at the entire palette. That is exactly what I mean, and this is where I wonder why legislation should be excluded. Why should you not open the possibility to look at it too? That is what the industry wants, and that is what I propose. It is not taken out of the air, but we are looking at how other Nordic countries have done. We're the worst in the league. Other countries are better off. Again: the proposals of the invited, the industry's own proposals– will the government and the minister look at them and act on them?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-193	Mr President, I would like to I will lead a continued process in which I want to listen to what everyone in the industry jointly means and believes. This with all of them is an important point. When I called around to all the actors who were at the first meeting, I just said that – that this can only be something if everyone is there. There have been attempts in the past when some groups have been picked out to talk to, but then it has become the case that proposals have been put forward that have touched others who have not sat around the table. It hasn't given anything. We will work out the goal of our process together. It will not be precisely the specific objectives that some of the stakeholders set before the start of the first meeting, but we will have to come back to the objectives. But they should be concrete and have an effect. I was clear about that for those sitting around the table. We don't have time to sit and have some kind of talk club. I definitely don't have time for that. The various actors do not have time for this either. I look forward to coming back to what the actual targets will be. As far as the figures are concerned, the honourable Member asked me if I have any other figures. No, I don't have any other numbers. There are figures from neighbouring countries and some from Europe. I'm sure it's the same as the Member of Parliament. These are the ones on which we must base this. The first objective, which has already been achieved, was to bring everyone to a next meeting. Maybe it sounds like a simple thing. But believe me, the Member of Parliament! It wasn't. I had to use many methods and a lot of power to get everyone on board. Now we're all in. We're having a second meeting on February 3rd. I'm looking forward to it. I also look forward to a meeting as a Member of Parliament and perhaps I can have where we can see how we can perhaps broaden the group and how the honourable Member's experience and knowledge can contribute to this work. I think this is important for the future.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-199	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me if I am going to take any initiatives to investigate the conditions for Sweden to have a national forest museum in Lycksele. I understand that Skogsmuseet in Lycksele is an important meeting place for the forest heritage and the future of the forest – partly through its activities with collections, archives, research and specially trained staff, partly through the established network of forest museums, forest collections, forest historical societies and SLU. The issue of giving Skogsmuseet in Lycksele the status of a national museum and a government contribution has been raised several times in recent years through parliamentary motions and letters to the government. This shows a strong commitment both to Skogsmuseet and to questions about the forest. In this context, I would therefore like to point out that the Government is making extensive efforts to highlight and increase the importance of forests within the framework of the development of a national forest programme. The work is conducted in broad dialogue with civil society organisations and authorities. The forest programme shall also contribute to stimulating other strategic initiatives and policies related to, for example, climate and environmental objectives, rural development, new industrialisation, export development and tourism. The government currently has no plans to give Skogsmuseet a national assignment. However, I have noted that Skogsmuseet is one of Region Västerbotten's priority development areas in both the current and the future cultural plan and thus in the distribution of state subsidies. The purpose of the cultural cooperation model is to enable regions to allocate state subsidies to, among other things, museums' activities according to their own priorities. Finally, I would like to inform you that the government has started work on cultural heritage issues in the autumn with a view to developing a future state cultural heritage policy. An active cultural heritage policy involves, among other things, enabling perspectives on history that can provide new knowledge and insights about man and his environment. Our museums play a major and important role in this context.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-203	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The forest industry, with its subcontractors, creates approximately 200,000 jobs in Sweden every year. About 1 per cent of the world's total forest is located in Sweden. Sweden has around 7% of the world market for forest raw materials. Sweden is what you might call a forest industrial power. It creates jobs and prosperity in our country. The forest industry exports SEK 120 billion each year. We have a long history of forestry. The forest has been and is, as I said, a large part of Swedish prosperity. In our Nordic neighbours they have state forest museums just to promote the importance of the forest industry, and yet the forest industry in our neighbouring countries is smaller than it is in Sweden. In Sweden, Skogsmuseet in Lycksele is a Västerbottensmuseum. It is largely regionally funded. Part of the funding is, as the Minister said, government, but that part is relatively small. Skogsmuseet is a regional museum for the preservation of Swedish forest industry history. But it's not just about the past. Much in Skogsmuseet is about the present and also about the future, about what may be one of the major Swedish export successes; it concerns cellulose and so on. When you can make clothes out of forest, we will get a long way in this area. Does the Minister not think it is time for the state to take greater responsibility for preserving such a large and important part of the Swedish cultural heritage? I take the liberty of inviting the Minister from the pulpit to the Forest Museum in Lycksele. I think that during one of her trips around Sweden she should make a visit to Västerbotten and especially visit Skogsmuseet in Lycksele. We have a good host in Västerbotten, and the Minister is very welcome. She will be amazed at the amazing story we have in this area. Every time I visit Skogsmuseet I am just as amazed at how much fantastic history we have in the forest, under which conditions forestry has been conducted and under which conditions forestry will be conducted in the future. In addition, there are a lot of fun machines you can watch once you're there. As I said, I take the liberty of inviting the minister and think she should come and visit us.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-210	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Riedl, for the intervention and thank you for the invitation! I look forward to coming and will announce as soon as possible when it will be. As I pointed out in my previous speech, I am well aware that the Forest Museum is important and that the activities carried out are important. It highlights the forest from the perspective that has been, is and will continue to be important for Sweden. I would like to point out that it is already possible to make clothes out of forests, and I know that the honourable Member is well aware of that. Forests are indeed in many ways a sector of the future, as the government has pointed out in various contexts. The museum is important, and what the museum does is important. What is also important is the model of cultural cooperation. That is the way we are channelling state aid, because we believe in the principle of subsidiarity. We want to mean that it works well when county councils in collaboration with municipalities and local actors themselves can make decisions on how and in what to invest their funds. Therefore, it is gratifying to note that in Region Västerbotten's cultural plan, both in the current for 2012 – 2015 and in the upcoming for 2016 – 2019, Skogsmuseet receives state support for its activities via the cultural collaboration model. In this way, the cultural cooperation model offers opportunities to highlight and carry out important national activities, even if the aid is distributed through a model that brings it across the country.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-214	Mr President, I would like to I will not prolong the debate too much. Let me say that a large part of the challenges around the world can be solved with forest raw materials and Swedish industrial know-how in this area. We should remember that a large part of the world's forestry is not carried out in a good and optimal way, but the forest is being destroyed, with enormous consequences. This means that in large parts of the world you do not like forest raw materials because it is associated with something that is not sustainable over time. Swedish forestry takes responsibility for the future. Since the beginning of the 20th century, the forest has increased in Sweden. Despite the fact that we consume forests, access is increasing precisely because we conduct our forest production in a responsible manner with replanting and so on. The forest is a large part of our present, and a large part of the wealth we may not always think of comes from the forest. It is therefore important to have a good conservation of that part of the cultural heritage. Let us return to the debate after the Minister has visited Lycksele. Then we can have a further discussion. As I said, the previous government did not do this either. I believe it is a long-term process, notwithstanding the color of government, for the Forestry Museum in Lycksele to have its rightful place as a national resource. I thank the Minister for the debate.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Riedl! The MP knows how to get a minister up and running in a new government when he says that the previous government did not do this either. Then we want to introduce a great deal at once. We do. Above all, we want to highlight important cultural heritage issues. We want a living cultural heritage that tells us something about where we come from, where we are and also where we're going. The forest is just such a cultural heritage. Having said that, I would like to emphasise the cultural heritage bill, which I look forward to submitting to the Swedish Parliament before the end of the parliamentary term. It will be Sweden's first cultural heritage bill. We will work closely with the parliamentary democratic parties around it. The museums will of course play a significant role in the cultural heritage bill; I received a museum investigation not long ago. There is therefore a great deal of hope for development in terms of our cultural heritage and museums in the future. I would like to send that hope with the Member of Parliament, together with a thank you for the invitation to Skogsmuseet.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-221	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me what responsibility I believe the government has in working towards radicalisation. He has also asked what concrete proposals the government will make to facilitate Muslim assemblies to step up work against violent Islamist extremism and the recruitment of radicalized young people to terrorist organisations. I would like to make it clear that the Government is responsible for taking the necessary measures to protect democracy and to strengthen prevention. In this way, the Government is also responsible for municipalities having access to knowledge and measures that can prevent radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremism. During the year, the government has strongly strengthened its preventive work, including in order to develop the authorities' preventive measures and methods. This has been stated in the letter Measures to make society more resistant to violent extremism. 2014/ 15:144). In the field of prevention, it is essential that there is cooperation at both national and local level between efforts to protect democracy against violent extremism and crime prevention. In Sweden's work against terrorism, guided by the strategy presented in August – Preventing, Preventing, Harmful – there is therefore a clear focus on preventive measures, to prevent radicalisation and recruitment to extremist and terrorist groups. The 21 measures under way to make society more resistant to violent extremism are grouped into five areas: national coordination to protect democracy against violent extremism; measures to protect democracy and the equal value and rights of all people; measures to address identified risks; measures to ensure that individuals leave violent extremist movements; and strengthened Nordic and international exchange of knowledge and experience. By strengthening the resources of the National Coordinator to protect democracy against violent extremism, Mona Sahlin, the Government has facilitated the development of its work by authorities, municipalities and organisations. The coordinator conducts municipal visits and training courses adapted to local needs. The coordinator's website also contains recommendations on how local prevention can be built up. One of these recommendations is that municipalities should involve civil society organisations in their work. Civil society organisations, including religious communities, are very important players in the prevention of violent extremism. However, it is important that efforts by religious communities and organisations are made through their own initiative. The government cannot and should not govern the work of civil society. Organisations and religious communities have since 2011 been able to apply for state grants from the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, for activities that safeguard democracy. The Government has allocated SEK 8 million for state grants in this area in 2016. The General Heritage Fund also provides support for efforts to prevent violent extremism and has supported a number of projects that various organisations are currently running. The government has also created the conditions for the religions to receive support to develop their work. In dialogue with the religions, the SST has the task of stimulating their work with democracy and democratic awareness with a focus on women and young people. The agency is also tasked with stimulating the support of these communities to young people, parents and relatives in dialogue with the religions that want to develop their work against violent extremism. These assignments will continue in 2016. With these missions to MUCF and SST, the government has facilitated those organisations and religious communities that want to develop their work to protect democracy against violent extremism and, in the long run, against radicalisation and recruitment to extremist and terrorist groups.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-232	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Culture and Democracy. The Liberals submitted this interpellation after the Government's participation in SVT's Agenda, where I noted that the Government on the question of Sweden had been naive in the question of radicalisation and extremism answered: Generally speaking, no, we have not been naive. The days before, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven had said at a press conference in Rosenbad that Sweden had been naive and also proposed a number of measures against terrorism and extremism. I would like to emphasise that on this issue I share Stefan Lövven's view that we have been naive. We are very concerned that Sweden belongs to the countries of northern Europe that have the largest number of young people recruited to extremism. They are recruited daily from Swedish cities, not least Gothenburg, Örebro, the Stockholm area and Malmö. I've read the Government's response. Most of the things I recognize from the time the Alliance was in government and from things that the national coordinator against violent extremism, Mona Sahlin, has announced. It's not that much new. The questions remain. I would like clarification, not least as to how we should intensify the work against violent extremism in Muslim communities. Here's the government's response a little evasive. It is true that the Minister for Culture and Democracy admits that this is an important work and that they have an important responsibility, and that the word constantly comes back to stimulate and that the state and the government cannot act a little tougher, as I would have liked, with regard to violence-promoting extremism. We do not suggest going in and listening to congregations or talking about exactly what is to be preached during Friday prayer, and so on. But how can we make the important congregations, in this case mosques, make their contribution tougher and clearer? This disappears a little bit in the Government's response. On 22 November, the Government stated in SVT's Agenda that the Government announced a review of the state contributions to the religious communities. That's not in the minister's answer. That is why I would like to repeat my question in that part. Will the government soon – perhaps there is a date – decide to review guidelines on contributions to religious communities in the sense that it will be easier to get rid of its contribution if it violates democratic values and the regulatory framework that forms the basis for contributions to religious communities?
i-6B99LezCDFinUM15nCJ79G	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Haddad, for the question. I do not know in what reality the Member of Parliament has been in over the last few years. I have my degree in political science, but I was raised in civil society. If you have been active in civil society organisations and have spent time in areas of great exclusion, you have also seen what has been happening for a long time. There has been radicalisation and recruitment, and there has been concern among parents, siblings and relatives for a long time. Unfortunately, I believe that the previous government did not do enough. Mr R. says he recognizes most of it. I'm surprised, too, because we're doing great. Sure, we are strengthening the foundations laid by the previous government. We strongly reinforce the efforts of the national coordinator. We strongly strengthen the work to safeguard democracy, and we also strengthen SST's work with the religions. So the answer to the last question from the Member of Parliament, about the revision of state subsidies, is that it will happen. This is likely to happen this year. I don't have an exact date, but it will happen. This is also something that the previous government talked about and was courted about, but nothing happened. Now it will happen, and I look forward to telling you more when we know what date this announced work is set in motion. The honourable Member is concerned that Muslim parishes are not doing enough, and he wants to see that the government is more governing civil society. Here it is a delicate task not to go wrong. The civil society policy adopted by this House makes clear the importance of the policy – the government and the parliament – not interfering in and governing civil society organisations of a special nature. It is a balancing process to both support and monitor and promote the voice of civil society organisations. On the day we start to run civil society on the basis of our own interests, we are really in trouble, not least in view of what is happening in our world, for example in terms of media policy in Poland but also in Hungary and many other European countries, where politics wants to interfere with its long arms and seems to have forgotten what the armlong distance means. On the other hand, we need to interact with and stimulate civil society as far as possible. But I would like to stress the importance of not steering civil society organisations. They have statutes, congresses and annual meetings and will operate on them, just like our political parties, which are also part of civil society. At the same time, I would like to emphasise state subsidies. It is tax money that goes to civil society organisations. We should be proud in Sweden, which has a fantastically well-developed state grant system. I know this not least because I was Director-General of MUCF until a year and a half ago. For a long time, there have been opportunities to take back money and demand a refund if it turns out that an organisation does not meet the requirements. The requirements are clear. This is one of the things we are going to look at now as we look at how the subsidies and regulations are designed.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-242	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government with the People's Party, as we were then called, which was responsible for the Ministry of Democracy, contributed to the appointment of Mona Sahlin as national coordinator against violent extremism. It was not an environmental decision. We gave assignments to the then Correctional Service, which was dealing with radicalisation – it is being extended right now. We decided on a strategy against terrorism in 2012, which is currently being revised. We have given assignments to the Swedish Media Council, Forum for Living History and others. Don't tell me I haven't followed these questions, Minister! Don't say that the Alliance government did nothing! That's wrong. My question was about reviewing state subsidies to organisations, in this case the religions. Then the Government says: Yes, that possibility already exists. What, then, is the purpose of this government's review? What do you want to accomplish? That's what I want to know. When it comes to the work against radicalisation and violent extremism, it was our alliance government and our ministers who commissioned Säpo's 2010 report on violent Islamist extremism. It's almost six years ago. Isn't it high time to update that document? It says that about 200 people in Sweden support violent Islamist extremism. There's a dark number. And it was estimated then, in 2010, that maybe 30 to 40 people went to terrorist organizations like the Islamic State – then we called them al-Qaeda or al-Shabab. Mr President, I would like to Things have happened, Madam Minister. 300 young people from Sweden have travelled to these areas in the last two and a half years. 126 - 130 have returned. 40 have died. You and the government know all these figures. That is why we are concerned about this. I didn't say to rule the religions. It is the Government that says in its answer that we should not rule the religions. I have not proposed it, but I would like to hear how to step up the work. You can hear in this debate that the state should cooperate. We're going to have dialogue, and we're going to be careful. This is civil society. But I've been on the Board of the National Police for four years. The Security Service comes to us every year and says: Why do we, the Security Police and the Swedish Intelligence Service, have contact with mosques? We're not even supposed to get in touch with them. But they are actually the ones who have been in contact with the mosques. They are the ones who have had so-called conversations when Swedish young people have gone to Syria and Iraq or come back to Syria and Iraq. There has been no further legislative mandate to act. That is why we welcome the Act on Terrorism Travel, which Parliament will be considering shortly. But let us stick to the work against radicalisation and prevention, which is the theme of the Liberals' interpellation! How can the government do even more with its instruments or indirectly by supporting the municipalities? We know that only one third of the municipalities have an action plan against radicalisation. As late as the end of November, neither Gothenburg nor Malmö had a concrete action plan. In December, so-called guidelines were announced. They said: We will come back with an action plan. Only in December, two of Sweden's three major cities had no concrete action plan against violent extremism. Mr President, I would like to Mona Sahlin said in a statement: In the long run, this cannot be dealt with as project work by the government. More needs to be done. I want to hear what the government thinks.
i-LA6tE1i62NEmh1uyWQxiLq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Haddad, for the continued discussion! The National Coordinator, Mona Sahlin, will leave his investigation during the year. In that investigation, she will also make suggestions on how to take the work forward. Then it is extremely important that we have a discussion in Sverig es Riksdag, for this is a long-term, fundamental and extremely important work for Sweden in the true sense of the words. As late as 10 December, if I am not wrong, an agreement was reached on counter-terrorism measures. It was an agreement between the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. It highlights a number of points. It's a sharp and forward-looking criminalization of terrorist war travel. It is faster to stop the misuse of Swedish passports. But it is also a question of clarifying the responsibilities of municipalities. It stresses the importance of municipalities working on prevention and has action plans. The national coordinator has gone country and country with that very message. And we are working through the national coordinator to develop tools. I stressed this at the outset. It was a good basic work. The government has strengthened the national coordinator's possibilities, resources and office and the entire investigation work to make us effective. We must get all the municipalities and cities on the train. Municipalities and civil society organisations, including the religions, are at the heart of this work. It is about catching up young people who are in a radicalisation process or even catching them up before entering a radicalisation process and before they are recruited and become travelling and possibly committing crimes against humanity. Then you need to be able to identify these young people early. It is best done in the municipality, locally and very close. We will continue to work in this way to court the municipalities. I hope that all of Sweden's municipalities understand the seriousness and start a clear work to protect democracy but also to work towards radicalisation and that this work works together. I would like to use the word cooperation. I have travelled around our country over the past year. I have visited many mosques and met many Muslim representatives and imams who really emphasise the importance of working on this particular issue. It is one of the most engaging issues. I have also faced despair in the eyes and hearts of many representatives as they present the text about the grief of losing a young person and the work of this young person's family. This is a collaboration, and we can be successful if we manage to do this together. It is crucial for the future. This concerns the local cooperation between the municipalities' various administrations, the school and social services, but also the cooperation between our institutions, the Prison Service and Sis and the cooperation here in the Swedish parliament. It is about this being a long-term work that lasts over time.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-257	Mr President, I would like to In the autumn, I had the opportunity, as representative of the Liberals, to be involved in negotiations with the government. And I was there when we presented the agreement on terrorism. But the focus of this interpellation debate is on radicalisation and prevention. It can be preventive on social media. It can be preventive at school. It can be preventive by drawing money into organisations and religious communities engaged in hate sermons and by encouraging young people to travel to Iraq and Syria. It can also be direct cooperation through the municipalities or the state authorities against mosques. We must not underestimate the important role of mosques and parishes. Unfortunately, recruitment or encouragement still exists in connection with them or directly outside them. Young people are encouraged to travel for terrorist purposes. Of course, congregations and mosques and, not least, the imams, as strong leaders of their congregations, play an important role. I've been to Gothenburg. I've been to Örebro. I've been to Eskilstuna. I can mention that Muslim congregations are not always welcome. I have also visited Gefle Dagblad, who has reported on a local mosque where there have been problems with activities related to radicalisation and recruitment. Generally, it may work. Nevertheless, we have to admit that we have problems in Sweden, whether they are segregated areas, municipalities that do not do enough or that not all mosques and imams actually reject radicalisation and violent extremism. That is what we should oppose, not peaceful assemblies or churches or whatever it is, but violent Islamist extremism. We would like to see a review of state subsidies. We would like a new report on violent extremism in Sweden.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-262	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Haddad for the discussion. I would like to begin by emphasising and perhaps clarifying the distinction between the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs in preventing and combating terrorism and my responsibility as Minister for Democracy in safeguarding our democracy and protecting our democracy from violent extremism. These two are meeting, and we have worked closely together on the two different action programmes and action plans that we have presented. Terrorism is an extreme form and can be the consequence of violent extremism. That is why this cooperation is so important. There can be no watertight walls between them if the work is to be effective. I would therefore like to emphasise that much of the radicalisation that we are now seeing with regard to the three different forms of violent extremism is also taking place online. It is therefore gratifying to see that in the work and agreement of which Member of Parliament Haddad was a part and represented the Liberals, it also stressed the importance of working towards recruitment on the Internet. This responsibility lies with me as Minister of Culture and Democracy and the Swedish Media Council's agency's work with No hate speak movement. I believe that this is one of the areas that we will have to develop over the years, because, unfortunately, we are second on the ball in terms of the sly, methodical and highly polarised messages that various groupings of violent extremist movements use. Once again, we must work together here. It is not possible to do substantive or party politics on this issue. This is only done with long-term cooperation and clarity. I appreciate the honourable Member bringing it forward.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-265	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me whether the withdrawal period for entrepreneurs over the age of 55 is one of the unjustified differences between different groups of insured persons that the government intends to change with a view to improving the business environment. Mr Rothenberg has also asked me what further measures I intend to take in the context of my responsibility in the government for more elderly people to start and pursue businesses. The government is keen to improve the business environment. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the most important job creators in Sweden. Therefore, the government will continue to strengthen the conditions for starting a business and for existing companies and potential companies to grow, export and hire more. Safe and predictable health insurance is part of the ongoing work. The conditions of self-employed workers in the social security systems are an important issue and the withdrawal period for entrepreneurs over 55 years of age may therefore be highlighted in the further work. The Government strives for a longer working life and is keen to create the conditions for this as far as possible. Good conditions for both young and older people to start and run businesses are desirable.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-268	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It gives a good start to a continued debate. Many small businesses work more than a 40-hour working week. For many, there is no other option if the business is to function. This applies regardless of whether it is an individual firm, a partnership, a limited liability company or a limited partnership. But it is also the case that the current rules on carers' and sick leave allow you to choose both shorter and longer withdrawal periods at times when you fall ill. For various reasons, many choose the longer withdrawal period, but above all because they reduce the health insurance contribution. When you turn 55, there is a strong situation. If you're that age, you don't think it's an old age. But for many this becomes very evident. This 55th birthday appears somewhere as a dividing line between being middle-aged and getting old. Then something also happens with the withdrawal period. As an entrepreneur, you cannot change your withdrawal period to a shorter one. In addition to age, a person who runs his own company must state to Försäkringskassan what diseases they have had in the last two years and what diseases they have been at home for during the same period. Should you have had the same disease or symptoms after you have been granted a shorter withdrawal period, the longer withdrawal period immediately begins to apply. This was an issue that was raised during the last parliamentary term, during the time of the alliance government. The issue of withdrawal periods for self-employed workers was dealt with by then ministers – moderate ministers. There was also a review of the withdrawal period, from having previously been a fixed withdrawal period to becoming a flexible one. Quite exactly three years ago, on 17 January 2013, the Minister for Social Security's government colleague Ylva Johansson, then member of the Social Democrats in the Riksdag, submitted a written question to the then Minister of State Ulf Kristersson about this very thing, i.e. the age limit in health insurance for self-employed workers. Ylva Johansson pointed out that according to Försäkringskassan's letter to self-employed persons, this possibility to choose the number of days of withdrawal and thus the level of contributions is reserved only for those who are no more than 55 years old. The current Minister for Labour, then the Member, asked the Government: Does the Government intend to work for the government to change the rules, so that self-employed people are treated equally whether they are over or under 55 years of age? It is good to know your history and to be aware of what has happened in previous events. That is why I thought I would ask this question to the current Minister for Labour to see if she is consistent in her view, so that what was stupid three years ago might be stupid now too. But then I received a friendly answer to my written question from the Minister for Social Security. The main reason for this was that there is a parliamentary inquiry dealing with these issues. There is therefore no understanding of the matter. Nevertheless, I wanted to clarify and ask these questions. Is the withdrawal period for entrepreneurs older than 55 years one of the so-called unjustified differences between different groups of insured persons that the government intends to change in order to improve the business environment? There I did not get a clear answer, only that it could be. But what is the Minister's view on this issue?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-278	Mr President, I would like to I thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for holding this issue. I'll try to give you an answer as clear as it's ever possible to give. The rule you now state is a very old rule. It was created in its original form in the 1960s, I think. We all know that a lot has happened in Sweden since the 1960s. We have a labour market that has very much changed, and not least we have a life expectancy that has increased significantly. As things stand at the moment, life expectancy is increasing by about a year per decade, and it is usually said that 65 is the new 45. That's what I'm attracted to by hearing. That is why I think there is reason to revise this rule too. There may also, as the Social Insurance Agency as the responsible authority has pointed out, definitely be reasons to change this which, for many entrepreneurs, is a cause for concern. Small businesses, in particular, have paid great attention to this in recent years and have also pushed for a great deal. I actually met them before Christmas and New Year's. My message to Mr Rothenberg is therefore: yes, this is definitely one of the rules that may change. However, as Mr Rothenberg is well aware, we have had a large parliamentary social security inquiry, in which we have been working this autumn on the compilation of the many referrals that came in early this autumn. There are also more rules with regard to our social security policies concerning companies that have been subject to review. For example, there are proposals that entrepreneurs should be allowed to keep their SGI not only for 24 but for 36 months. There are also proposals that we need to review the various regulations that exist and which depend on the type of company that you run your company. This is well part of a larger proposal to further improve the regulatory framework for health insurance and unemployment insurance for entrepreneurs in such cases. I would also really like to emphasise the importance of having social security policies that play well with a good business environment. There is still a lot to do in both health insurance and unemployment insurance, but many people point out that when I meet representatives of entrepreneurs, not least is parental insurance. It is an extremely important insurance policy which can lead, among other things, to young women in particular waiting to start a business, to postpone it or even to ignore it. My clear answer to Mr Rothenberg is therefore: yes, this is one of the rules that may change.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-283	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Now it became a little clearer. Sometimes it's good to have a debate. The new 45 - 65. It has been a hot potato for how long to work, how long to work and how long to work. In an Almedal speech a few years ago, Prime Minister Reinfeldt mentioned that you could work up to 75 years of age, and my lord, what it put on the climate of debate! The trade union movement began to rattle with all sorts of arguments that have not been on this side of the debate climate since the 1960s. There was a lot of excitement about this. I am pleased that the Minister is now saying that 65-plus should not mean stopping work. People go through different phases of life. We tend to project everything we should do in life over the years between 30 and 45. You're supposed to make a career, you're supposed to be educated and you're supposed to have a family. You're supposed to get prestige stuff. You should manage everything that no reasonable person can – work 50 hours, pick up and leave, and be at home and wake up. No wonder you get carbonic acid in the phontanelles and that the burning epidemic is at its hardest during those very years. It's no wonder. That is why we need a working life where one might go into different forms of work during different phases of life. It is therefore important to include the conditions for the various social security schemes that can take part in different forms of employment. Being an employee is the norm today, but being an entrepreneur during certain phases of life is almost abnormal. Therefore, it is also important not to have too sharp limits. When the alliance government made the change with regard to the Carensdays, it saw an adjustment of them as well. It's important to put your ear to the rails. I also talk a lot to organisations representing entrepreneurs and to entrepreneurs who sometimes hesitate to enter and start their own business at a certain stage of life, because there are circumstances for which this is not right. There is another form of work that I myself am much more eager for, and that is self-employment. It is an intermediate between employment and self-employment. There is even greater uncertainty about the conditions for various forms of sickness and social security. It is a contribution to the Minister I would definitely like to make, that is to review this in this context. The second question I asked, Mr President, was how the Minister sees what further steps should be taken for older people to start up and run businesses. I have read the written answer quite a few times and it was not as clear as in the Minister's last oral reply. We can rather see that the government's policy over the last 16 months has meant that hiring older people has become more expensive. It has become more expensive to run businesses and buy many services, especially in the RUT and ROT sectors. Working after 65 has become more expensive. I think that is a question on which the Minister is guilty. How does this relate to stimulating people who are 55-plus and 65-plus to go on in life and work as entrepreneurs, i.e. to choose a form that can work on the basis of their own conditions?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-291	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Rothenberg for his speech. Yes, it is just as the honourable Member says: a great deal has happened in the labour market over the last 20 years, not least. Today, we have many people working on fixed-term contracts, or they work as combinators. This was part of what the parliamentary social security inquiry aimed at, and the final report submitted also proposes the introduction of so-called e-income. This would make it easier to recognise different types of income and would also be credited as a basis for social security. So we will see to what extent we have the opportunity to come back with proposals that will facilitate this. I believe that, as politicians, we must be very sensitive and also see that we have a globalised labour market. We have a labour market that is in great change, and then it is in some way a question of having the proposals that mean that people should nevertheless be able to feel safe during their working lives. With regard to the points made by Mr Rothenberg at the end of his last speech, we note that we still have the favourable situation at the moment that approximately four pensioners a day actually start companies in Sweden. It's very pleasing. At the same time, it is at least my analysis that this may in fact be an expression of the fact that many people approaching retirement feel that they cannot remain in their regular employment because of the attitudes that exist in the labour market, both among employees and employers, in terms of their view of older workers. Therefore, they choose to terminate their employment and instead start their own business. There may be nothing bad about it, but we need more people who feel that they can and want to remain in their workplace even after 65. However, we must not forget – and I think that is very important – that the most common reason why people retire and leave the labour market, which unfortunately too many do prematurely, is disability or their own health. There is much to be done to strengthen the working environment, not least in the women-dominated sectors of the labour market. There, as Mr Rothenberg points out, we can see that, unfortunately, many are going into disease far too soon. This often applies to burnout, stress or the like. As regards the business environment for the elderly or stimulating older workers, we in Sweden today have some 230 000 people who are 65-plus and are still working. It can be said that even with the changes introduced by the government, it is still very beneficial to employ people who are 65-plus. That is also the case with the small adjustment we made to the so-called wage tax for the elderly. It is also the case that we still have a reinforced job tax deduction for people over 65, which makes it advantageous to choose to remain in work.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-298	Mr President, I would like to Working on the basis of one's ability and being able to do it longer is an ambition we should all carry with us, but it is not always easy to do so in reality. That's exactly where we get to the sharp edge. It is also the case that many entrepreneurs are not quite aware that this boom strikes on the 55th anniversary. You are alert and still feel rather alert, and you have no intention of looking at your house and thinking ten years ahead. That's why it strikes so incredibly sharp. It is also the case, which is important to bear in mind, that one must stimulate and make it more attractive to run one's own business or work in other forms if one wants people of that age to remain in the labour market. They may not be attractive to hire for many reasons – and this is a lot about attitudes. It is quite obvious that if you as an entrepreneur have the long withdrawal period in case of illness you have very little opportunity to fund it, because for many entrepreneurs it is the money that comes in the money that you should be able to live from. After all, it is the company that pays quite a lot for the first period of illness. There are very little opportunities to deal with this situation, and other situations arise. This is a problem. I think it is important that we do not solve it from a negative perspective, that there are many people who are sick who need help, but here it is above all about ensuring that many who are already at this age should not be afraid to start their own business, because if there are more people who start companies, there will be more money for the treasury. It also strengthens the conditions for social security systems. Thank you for the debate.
i-XjZ5wR4uVwTXVpeye5xo8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for this debate. I think that with this interpellation you have focused on an important issue. As you began your last post by saying, the picture, which I too have, is that there are far too few entrepreneurs who know that it looks like this. There are a number of examples where it has been discovered far too late and found that there is no possibility of making any change. As I said in a previous speech here, I believe that most of us today do not believe that 55 years are particularly old, but that there are hopefully many healthy and productive years ahead of them. We, of course, need policy to facilitate and stimulate the possibility of starting and running our own business and removing rules that make it more difficult, but also to ensure that more people are able, willing and able to work longer if they wish. Not least, society's attitudes towards older workers need to be significantly changed and improved. I believe that we politicians also have an important task in going ahead and actually telling both employers and others around society that the older workforce is on a significant level of competence that we need to retain in our workplaces and in Swedish entrepreneurship. Thank you for a good debate!
i-36fbcf57132591ac-305	Mr President, I would like to Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me, in response to the interim report that the inquiry into procurement and conditions under collective agreements submitted on 1 September and which has been out for consultation, how I intend to proceed with the legislative proposal given the objections expressed by several of the consultation bodies, how to work to improve the opportunities for small companies to participate in public procurement when additional administrative requirements are placed on them and how I see the significant deviations from the Swedish model that the legislative proposal in practice entails. The fact that workers who perform public procurement work do so under reasonable conditions of employment is important both for workers and to maintain fair competition between the companies involved in public procurement. No company shall benefit from and win procurements by providing its employees with unfair terms of employment. Tax money should not finance companies that do not comply with laws and agreements. The government is currently working to take care of the investigation's proposals and the views expressed by the referral bodies. The referral has been mixed. Many have been positive, although, as Maria Stenergard has pointed out, there are referrals that have raised objections to the proposals. It is natural because the issue of the possibility of introducing provisions on, for example, collective agreement conditions is complex. I, like Maria Malmer Stenergard, defend the Swedish labour market model. The need for regulation to achieve clarity and predictability in this area of procurement law must be met with respect to it. The central point of departure in the government's work is that the function of the Swedish labour market model and the division of responsibilities within it should not be affected. As Maria Malmer Stenergard points out, it is also important for small companies to be able to participate in public procurement. The investigation has taken particular account of this in its work, and the Government is also working on this.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The principles of public procurement are important. The entire business community will have the opportunity to operate on reasonably similar terms, and anyone who wants to be able to compete for the hundreds of billions that the public procures for each year. We all benefit from that. Competition is good, and citizens' money must be protected. But the system must not be too tricky, because then competition will be countered. It is already quite complicated today, and that is the testimony of many who work with procurement. Unfortunately, this is also evident from the unsuccessful tenders. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, only 12 per cent of Sweden's small businesses participated in public procurement in 2014. Now we will implement three major EU directives in the field of procurement. But as usual, Sweden cannot just implement the directives, but you want to spice up with a little bit of good. And this government, its habit is faithful, the affairs of the trade unions. That is why we now want to spice up the directives with the requirement of collective agreement-like conditions for all those who submit tenders. The study has been tasked with trying to find a model to ensure collective agreement-like conditions, while at the same time not imposing requirements for effective collective bargaining. It's a difficult mission, to say the least. It is not easy because EU law upholds principles such as free movement and freedom of association. Given the tricky conditions, it is no wonder that the end product becomes rather tricky and somewhat stressed. In my next speech, I am going to go into three points which I am particularly attached to regarding the investigation and which I find very strange. But now I'm going to stay a little bit on the complexity and consistency of the companies. I note that the consultation bodies are concerned that the proposal imposes an additional administrative burden on businesses. It can lead to a further decrease in interest, especially for small companies, to participate in procurements at all, regardless of whether companies live up to the conditions or not. For example, when Kristianstad's municipality is going to procure chairs for its schools, there is a great risk that there will be fewer bidders, higher prices and lower quality. It is not good for competition, it is not good for taxpayers and it is not good for jobs. These proposals hit hard on those companies that do not have their own big administrative muscles, those that just want to do what they are good at and that were the reason why they once started businesses. It is often about small businesses. I could not help but note that the Minister for Social Security just stood here and said that small and medium-sized enterprises are the most important job creators in Sweden. But it's one thing to say and another thing to really work for what you say. At the Social Democratic elections in 2014, Stefan Löfven said: "If I can form a government, I will demand information from every minister and every head of authority if a decision means more jobs or not." All proposals should aim to create more jobs. Now, internal control and monitoring of electoral promises do not seem to be the absolutely strongest branch of the government, so I take the opportunity to ask the question here today: in what way does the government's quest for collective agreements-like conditions aim to create more jobs?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-321	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Civil Affairs says tax money is not supposed to finance companies that don't comply with laws and regulations. There is full agreement on this. The problem with the investigation and interim report by the Minister for Civil Affairs and the Government is that the good you want to achieve is not achieved, because it is causing this at all ends. You are using the wrong medicine for the disease that is far from everyone suffering from. The starting point cannot be to impose charges on purchases so that it becomes difficult to understand, difficult to carry out and complicated for purchasers in municipalities, county councils, regions and authorities as well as for companies, not least the small ones mentioned here before, who do not have the muscles to have lawyers themselves. It requires more law, which I thought we would reduce, to interpret what you can answer and write. There is also a risk that there will be far more legal aspects to take part in instead of less law and more business. The procurement authority should be there as support, and that is good. But you can see how the authority gets a tight queue of political bodies who need help to sort out this plethora of contracts that sometimes differ depending on which house is to be cleaned in a municipality, as an example that the furniture is not included in the cleaning. If you are going to clean a municipal office, the same agreement as for a school does not apply. I took three of these writings with me. There are 685 of them in the country. Some are available, others are less available, and somewhere along the way one should relate to which agreement applies. Far from all companies are cheaters, but those who cheat obviously hurt the others. That is not to say that you should not have another way of dealing with this. With your proposals in the investigation, you create bureaucracy, more workload and more burdens are what is necessary. It becomes more difficult for companies to participate. You're blocking some of them and going against the law of the LOU. I am thinking of the principle of equal treatment. Clients in municipalities, county councils, regions and authorities will get more complicated, and the basis for ordering will make it more difficult to evaluate how companies have the right to participate or not. Added to this is the need to contact the new contracting authority, which will also be overloaded. I would really like to know whether you intend to carry out what you yourself consider complicated with your investigation, because I think it is very complicated. Tax money should not be used to hunt and exert pressure on sjysta companies, as most are. They have good solutions for their employees, perhaps better than in collective agreements in some cases. A modern working life contains many parts. Earlier we heard Hans Rothenberg talking about self-employment. There are also those who have companies together and companies where each owns different parts. The Minister for Civil Affairs claims to take into account the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in the investigation. In what way? Can we be described how the sub-report responds to less bureaucracy, lower costs, better business, greater competition and so on? In the interpellation response, the Minister says that the question of contractual requirements under collective agreements is complex. Yes, I very much agree with that. Over 600 collective agreements should be taken into account, which makes it very difficult to penetrate. In addition, if the government's evidence is to be used, it violates the principle of equal treatment enshrined in the Public Procurement Act. How are you going to solve this? How do you think about your own business and your own business? For example, what should a farm that wants to sell its products to local schools do? Self-employed workers do not have collective agreements. Are they to be forced into this, which makes them more expensive and therefore makes them give up? There is much to discuss further.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-334	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Stenergard and Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for their contributions. It is an important issue and discussion. However, there seems to be some misunderstanding. I understand that Maria Malmer Stenergard has a good knowledge of law, and I am therefore surprised that she has missed the fact that one of the articles of the new EU procurement legislation requires Member States to ensure that conditions under collective agreement law are complied with in the context of public contracts. It is therefore an EU legal obligation that Sweden has. But let us ignore the obligation we have under EU law and look at the reality of our country. A large part of the economy is procured annually. This is about over 600 billion, one fifth of Sweden's bnp. Many serious and talented companies deliver goods and services to the public sector, to municipalities, county councils and state. However, we have some problems. We have a bureaucracy that makes the healthy business in the public sector more difficult. Therefore, the government is working both to simplify the regulatory framework and to strengthen procurement support. We have some problems with social dumping. The echo in Swedish Radio did a survey last year. They interviewed 100 taxi drivers in the procured service in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The picture painted by their work situation is gloomy. It is difficult to take in that it is Sweden that is described. It's 12 to 13 hours of work, six to seven days a week. A taxi driver in procured operations in Gothenburg who has been driving taxis for 19 years has to drive every day of the week to make it go around. He testifies to tough working hours and long working hours. Most people only have commission-based salary. The ten drivers who earn at least one salary of less than $14 an hour before tax. The minimum hourly salary is SEK 27. This is the reality in parts of the procured operations in today's Sweden. It is not a coincidence, Mr President. We know that politicians in the Stockholm County Council had knowledge that non-compliance with conditions for employees would lead to really bad conditions for those working in the transportation service. But they chose not to make these demands. This is not only contrary to the new requirements of EU law. It is also contrary to a healthy society in which we stick together and combat social dumping. We have an obligation to combat social dumping in general in our society. But now we are not talking about general requirements; we are talking about what requirements the public sector should make when it acts as a consumer and uses taxpayers' money. Our duty is to ensure that we do not have social dumping and unfair competition against serious companies. It is precisely this kind of challenge that we see in the transport service. This is precisely the type of problem that has been identified for a long time in procured cleaning operations. The serious companies and trade unions are calling on us to act, and the citizens are asking us to create order and order in procured activities. The government is not ashamed of this issue. This should have been done much earlier. It is time we took the necessary steps to get the Swedish labour market in order.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-346	Mr President, I would like to It was news to me that Swedish conditions under collective agreements are a requirement of EU law. This is probably also news for other EU countries. The Minister will be happy to elaborate on this. Sweden's collective agreement model is quite foreign to other countries. I shall mention the three parts of the proposal which I consider to be the most problematic. These are requirements on conditions that are already governed by law. It is about abandoning the Swedish model, which I have already discussed, and it is about domestic companies being disadvantaged. As regards requirements under conditions already laid down by law, the proposal requires the new contracting authority to identify which sectors are so-called risk sectors. For such sectors, it shall be mandatory for contracting authorities to impose conditions relating to remuneration, holidays and working hours. As a general rule, the terms must comply with the minimum level resulting from Swedish law. Holidays are governed by the Holiday Act, and working time is governed by the Working Time Act – unless otherwise agreed, which is also regulated by law. Why make demands that are already governed by law? If the industry does not comply with working time legislation – the Minister himself referred to the terrible examples in the taxi industry – it must of course be prosecuted. The employer who does not comply with the law shall be punished. I hope we agree on that. Let's harden it. According to Swedish law, you can't steal. Should it be a condition in the tender documentation that the employer must not promise to steal? It's gonna be really weird. Or should I take it that the government no longer believes in the ability of its law enforcement agencies? This is, by the way, a rather topical issue. It is also a question of abandoning the Swedish model. Here I am genuinely surprised. The Swedish model has been to leave it to the social partners to agree on the conditions on the labour market. But now, in some sectors, as the Procurement Authority points out, demands must be made on, among other things, wages, something that has been left entirely to the social partners in the past. Since this is an obvious breach of the Swedish model and the Minister for Civil Affairs in his reply is clear that he is protecting the Swedish model, I can only interpret it as not intending to proceed with these proposals. The minister will have to correct me if I'm wrong. Finally, it is about Swedish companies being disadvantaged. It's serious. Several consultation bodies point out that the conditions will be different for different companies. The report proposes that Swedish employers should be able to meet more stringent requirements than companies using posted workers. It is incompatible with the principle of equal treatment and is therefore contrary to EU law. The case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union shows that it is not possible to discriminate negatively against suppliers from their own country. This distorts competition between Swedish and foreign employers, and there is a risk that Swedish companies will refrain from submitting tenders because they know that they will not be able to compete with cost levels. Another risk is that companies in some sectors choose to move abroad and instead bid from abroad because it would benefit them. This has serious consequences for jobs in Sweden, but this has been completely missed in the impact assessment. I think that's a big flaw. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he intends to supplement the impact assessment of the investigation in order to answer the Prime Minister's question as to whether this is a proposal that benefits jobs.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-358	Mr President, I would like to It was a good post from Maria Malmer Stenergard on social dumping. All these elements are about legislation. Do we have inadequate legislation, or is it not being used properly? I believe that the legislation is there but that it is not used. I don't think politicians making stupid purchases should go out on companies widely, but then you have to make sure that they procure the right way. It does not benefit any of us that we have monopoly situations or companies that knock others out with unfair conditions. That's definitely not the way it should be. That is why we see a different solution from what the Minister obviously does. I would like to refer to the Posting of Workers Directive. As Maria Malmer Stenergard said, this means that, for example, NCC, which is a large company in Sweden and has operations in a European country outside Sweden, via its foreign company, can participate in a procurement here and perhaps win, if the harsh core conditions are to be more requirements for Swedish companies in Sweden than for other companies. But companies that only operate in Sweden, as many do, have a tougher situation than the company that operates abroad. Then the principle of equal treatment comes back. I would like to ask the Minister a question. I put it to Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg last autumn, and it was the Minister of Civil Affairs who gave me the answer that they were waiting for the investigation. Now, as a result, there is a chance to explain here what you intend to do about it, Ardalan Shekarabi. Do you think it is a good idea to have tougher conditions for Swedish companies here at home when they cannot compete on the same terms as others? It will have an impact on judicial work if you start going beyond the law and do not use the principle of equal treatment. How do you view that question?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-364	Mr President, I would like to The answer is simple: In Sweden, Swedish terms and conditions according to collective agreements and legislation shall apply. We will stand up for our labour market model. We're not doing that today. That is why we have the situation in the field of transportation. That's why we have cleaners who work in public contracts and who have really bad conditions. That is why serious companies are disadvantaged. This is why they lose contracts when they offer their employees terms and conditions in accordance with Swedish legislation and collective agreements. It is true that there is no legal requirement to comply with collective agreements in general. But what the government is saying is that the terms of a collective agreement should be a requirement in connection with service and works contracts to prevent social dumping and also fulfil the obligations we have under EU law. That should be a matter of course. It is self-evident in many EU countries that they have such requirements in relation to public contracts. Above all, it should be an important tool in creating fair competition for companies. If we allow a situation in which companies can abuse the lack of legislation and submit low bids by simply giving low wages to their employees, we disadvantage the companies that take responsibility and follow the order we have within the Swedish labour market model. We should, of course, carefully analyse the views that the investigation's proposal has produced, and that is exactly what we are doing in the Government Office now. Of course, we will take into account the views expressed in the consultation. I do not want to lead the way within the Government Office, but it is incredibly important to have as a starting point the requirement to comply with the terms of a collective agreement. It is therefore not a requirement to sign collective agreements, but within the framework of the public contracts that are procured, one must comply with the conditions that apply under Swedish collective agreements. This raises a number of complex legal issues. Therefore, the legislation must be sufficiently clear, so that we do not leave difficult legal issues to contracting authorities. That is precisely why the government chose to set up the investigation – to produce evidence and clear national legislation. The contracting authority will have a very important role in informing suppliers and contracting authorities about how to deal with such requirements in the context of public procurement. It is therefore important that this work be done nationally. In the absence of national rules and national efforts to combat social dumping in public contracts, a great deal of municipalities and county councils have taken their own measures. The risk is that we will then have a legal application in the framework of public procurement that is not uniform. It can definitely create difficulties and complications for suppliers and tenderers entering public procurement. Yes, this will benefit the jobs. Promoting jobs is not just about creating good conditions for growth. An important part of our procurement policy is also to ensure that we do not have social dumping and unfair conditions for Swedish companies that make good efforts in the Swedish economy. This is necessary if we are to achieve those objectives.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-374	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by being very clear in my last speech. We should never allow tax money to go to rogue companies that compete with illicit practices. Therefore, monitoring in the area of procurement is central. Many people have pointed out that there are shortcomings there today, and these obviously need to be addressed. The fight against crime must also be improved. Employers who do not ensure compliance with laws and regulations must be punished. They should not be able to take part in the public funds in the future. Mr President, I would like to However, the solution is not spelled more complicated and deteriorating conditions for the entire Swedish business community. As one of the referral bodies pointed out, the investigation's proposals bear the character of collective punishment. Just because there are actors who do not behave should not make it more difficult for everyone. Procurement competence needs to be increased, but there are already extensive opportunities to impose social requirements in procurement. It may be a problem that this is not done, but it has not been said that coercion must be imposed. As I pointed out in my previous speech, it becomes somewhat absurd when you want to legislate for authorities to demand compliance with legislation. The question has to be asked how much more disparaging companies can withstand. SMEs find it more difficult to grow when they cannot compete for money. This leads to lower competition, higher prices and fewer jobs, and who benefits? I note that the Minister has not answered my question as to how it can be justified that Swedish companies are disadvantaged by a construction that is done only to adapt to EU law. It is a politically driven product that is not rooted in EU law, which penalises Swedish industry, which hits small companies hard and also undermines the Swedish model. Instead, it would be better to ensure that Swedish companies comply with Swedish legislation, such as the Holiday Act and the Working Time Act, and otherwise allow them to engage in their core business.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-382	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the debaters for this discussion, although I find it very difficult to understand the point that the demand for compliance with the conditions of Swedish collective agreements is a collective punishment. It's not a punishment to offer taxi drivers the nicest conditions. It is not a punishment to ensure that those who clean our hospitals receive wages higher than $2 an hour. That is the reality we have to deal with today. That should not be accepted. It should not matter whether it is the Social Democrats or the Moderates after a politician's name if we are to relate to the Swedish model, because it is based on our respecting Swedish legislation but also Swedish collective agreements. We have a duty to ensure that citizens' tax money is spent in a fair way. We cannot guarantee that today. It is not possible, with the current regulatory framework and the application of that framework. The government is working hard to modernise legislation and reduce bureaucratic requirements. This is also why the mission that the investigation was given was focused on finding a solution that meets the various requirements and objectives of this work. That is why the investigation chose not to propose a general requirement but to target the risk industries that exist, where we see problems with social dumping. It is also the government's starting point for further work. Unlike the previous government, we will work hard to simplify the regulatory framework. We have announced that we will start work on simplifying the regulatory framework for national procurements below the thresholds. It is important for Swedish companies, important for SMEs' chances of participating in public contracts. Finally, my picture is that Swedish companies support order and order in the Swedish labour market, order and order in the public contracts.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-390	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me whether I believe that the subject of geology should be given a stronger position and thus greater space in primary and secondary education and whether I am prepared to give space to geology as a subject of my own in primary and secondary school curricula. When it comes to compulsory school forms – primary school, primary school, special school and Sami school – the knowledge area of geology is integrated into different subjects. I note that this area is addressed in the curricula of these school forms, and that it is more concrete in particular in the curricula of chemistry and geography. In upper secondary school, most pupils in national programmes are required to study at least one course on the subject of natural knowledge. The subject plan shows that the subject of natural knowledge in its nature is interdisciplinary with a basis in biology, physics, earth science and chemistry and that health, energy and sustainable development are addressed in the subject. For those who study the natural sciences and technology programme, different courses in the natural sciences replace the compulsory course in natural science, so these students study much more in the field than other students do. I also note that good efforts are being made in several parts of the country to facilitate the integration of the field of geology into education by schools. As an example, I can mention the Faculty of Science at Lund University, which has a resource centre for geology in school and offers teaching materials, teaching days and research articles in geology education via their website. In addition, Sweden's Geological Survey, the Swedish Agency for Research and Development (SGU), has this year launched a three-year work aimed at schools to highlight how important geology is for society and to offer materials for teaching. A third example worth mentioning is Geology for the school, a project initiated by Stockholm University in collaboration with the Museum of Natural History, which aims to help teachers integrate geology into their teaching. All in all, therefore, I believe that the field of geology is already being given space in primary and secondary school courses and subject plans. I also believe that teachers who choose to treat or deepen geology in teaching beyond what is required in course and subject plans have good opportunities to do this. Therefore, giving space to geology as a new subject in these school forms is not relevant.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-396	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Discussing geology in the Riksdag is not commonplace. I cannot remember that there has been such a debate in the past. Geology is an area that is rather neglected and neglected in Sweden. Sweden is built on a very strong and old bedrock. Here is a completely different type of rock and mineral than in many other places in the world, and the Swedish mining industry has emerged from this. Sweden's natural resources are of great importance to society and the economy, not least when it comes to basic industries such as the mining and stone industry with its processing steel and metalworking plants. As a result of all this benefit and these resources thanks to Scandinavia's stable bedrock, Sweden and the Nordic countries have naturally developed a high level of expertise in rock construction. Today, infrastructure under ground is increasingly being built. This requires a broad and solid knowledge of geological conditions to be able to build in a safe, environmentally and economically sustainable way. Not least in view of the changes that accompany climate change, geology skills play a crucial role. There is a figure that shows that if all of Sweden's detailed plans were to be put into effect, there are about 250 geology engineers missing to make it a reality. This competence thus plays a role, both at a higher and a lower level. Geology competence is crucial in many societal challenges, just as I said about infrastructure expansion and taking into account the climate change that is taking place. It was not long ago that there was actually an earthquake in Sweden. There will be huge headlines of this, but there will also be damage that needs to be dealt with and corrected. The lack of knowledge in geology can have devastating effects. I understand that the Minister for Education meets many people who want their subject to have more space, and it is clear that with a limit to a nine-year primary school and a three-year secondary school, there is no way to squeeze in any amount of money. That is not to say that you should ignore the wishes that come. This is very much about being able to put geology into context, and it is done in many other parts of the world. For example, in Norway, geoscience has the same rank as biology, physics and chemistry in the upper secondary science programmes. Lack of knowledge in Sweden should not be an obstacle to the good development of society when Earth science, which is currently somewhat neglected, is somewhat neglected. It is, as the Minister indicated, a voluntary subject to a very large extent in the field of natural knowledge. A few years ago there was an article in one of our major newspapers with a number of people representing Geology Sweden. It was the Director General of Sweden's Geological Survey, the Chairman of the National Association of Geography Teachers, the Permanent Secretary of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and the Swedish National Committee for Geology. Everyone believes that there is a great need to develop this knowledge. The answer from the Minister to my question was that geology should not be introduced as a compulsory subject. But does the Minister think it is important to have more geology knowledge in Sweden?
i-36fbcf57132591ac-405	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the interpellant for raising the question! On the supplementary question put by the interpellier, i.e. whether I think there is a need for more geology knowledge in Sweden, I can easily answer yes. It is easy to note, as Mr Rothenberg does, that today we have a lack of geology skills among trained engineers, for example. We need more geology engineers to meet the challenges, build you and transitions that our society faces both when we are going to expand for the great housing shortage we have and when we are going to be able to meet the climate challenges that they look like. This is one of the key competences. So my answer to the question is yes. The question then arises: what is the school and the school forms which Hans Rothenberg's interpellation is about, i.e. compulsory school and high school, for part of this? I continue to note that in addition to the areas where I mentioned that there is a mandatory element in the curricula and curricula available for school today, there are several areas where what Mr Rothenberg mentions in his reply is addressed. When you are in an area where the mining industry has had a major impact on the construction of society, it is natural that it also has a space in the history teaching conducted at the schools there. In the national economy, it is perfectly natural to go through how Sweden has built up much thanks to our rich geology, if you can use such an expression of our knowledge of how to manage and use the minerals that our country stands on. So these are issues that are being raised today, and I continue to doubt whether a subject of my own would help. I probably do not buy the reference to Norway either, because in Sweden we have in upper secondary school the subject of natural knowledge, where it is very clearly stated that it is a subject based on earth science with the same weight as it is based on chemistry, physics, biology and health. There is therefore a part for the vast majority of upper secondary school students, and those who study the scientific programme and the technical programme should actually read considerably more than other upper secondary school students. On the other hand, it may well be that the change that has taken place with new curricula that clarify these very issues linked to sustainable development and to the construction of society has not been fully realised in how courses are planned in upper secondary schools and primary schools. There is a need for further training, didactics and peer learning between teachers, and that is why I wanted to point out in my interpellation response the various initiatives taken in this regard. Lund University, SGU, Stockholm University, The Museum of Natural History is active in offering teachers the opportunity to receive the training they need to meet the requirements of curricula and curricula. It may be possible to ask the follow-up question if there is no need for a decided state initiative. These are government initiatives in the sense that our universities are state institutions, SGU is a government authority and the Museum of Natural History as well. Is there a need for a decision in the sense of a decided state initiative? I would like to await the outcome of the decisions we have already taken on national school development programmes. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been tasked, based on the needs of the schools that have been surveyed there, where sustainable development has been a part of it, to find out what efforts the Swedish Agency for Education needs to make for further education and collegial learning. I want to wait for that result.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-412	Mr President, I would like to Geology's long-term perspective provides the basis for understanding a large part of climate change, provides more knowledge about security in research results of management systems and about the importance of international cooperation. It is necessary to improve knowledge. It is good if geology can be part of the system thinking. Today, geology is the only major science subject that is missing on the schedule in any form in all educations from primary school to upper secondary school. Let me problematise the question. Is it reasonable that a subject of such great knowledge content, which is so important to man's future living conditions, should be based on voluntary initiatives from teachers, students and outside actors? Here it is a question of providing basic knowledge, not of seizing an interest. Let me do the same reflection on other subjects, such as geography, religious studies, social studies, should be external actors who should press for basic knowledge of those subjects. It would seem quite absurd. But that is the case with geology. In this context, one can always reflect on what is most important to know – how the earth is created or the conditions for developing our society. Is geology to be set against craft? The answer when I ask the question to myself is given. Mr President, I would like to Geology is part of natural knowledge, but it is an extremely small part of such a complex subject. It is too small to be a voluntary initiative. It is precisely because the subject is not on schedule that the initiatives would be needed. There are examples of parts of a course content that could be included in the subject of geology, such as the origin and structure of the earth, the origin and early development of life. In an existence when in the world's leading economy there is a peoples' movement that drives creationist thinking, there is a need to learn how the earth and the world really arose. It didn't take 6,000 years, it's 14 billion years. There is also atmospheric and ocean circulation. It is about understanding the movements and currents of our existence and how man affects them. There are also natural disasters. The world is perhaps facing the greatest threat that no one is talking about, and it is unfortunately impossible to prevent politically. It's when one of the super volcanoes sometime, perhaps even during our or our offspring's near lifetime, will burst. It will mean the destruction of a continent, and it will be permafrost for a long time. These are major issues that require understanding. As the Minister will understand, I am in favour of geology having a greater impact in Swedish school. I was hoping to get a little more positive response. These are issues which, in both the extremely long and short term, play a major role.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-419	Mr President, I would like to I fully understand the honourable Member's view. Although not many Members of Parliament are in charge of this issue, another common question for both me and former Education Ministers has been how different parts of the curriculum can be strengthened or how new subjects can be added. Although we all see ourselves as guardians of the timetables, curricula and curricula that exist, and thus dismiss the various proposals, at least when it comes to adding new subjects, we do so in some different ways. In this case, I am careful to emphasise the need to strengthen the knowledge of geology. Geology is an important part of today's topics. I would like to sort out so that it is not the case that my pointing out the opportunities available for teachers today to get didactic development of, for example, state institutions, universities, museums and SGUs, means that this is some kind of voluntary part based on the independent interest of teachers. What is written in our curricula are requirements for our teachers. The curricula for chemistry and geography in primary school give concrete meaning to geology and geoscience. They are mandatory parts of those curricula. For upper secondary school, they are included as part of building up the subject of natural knowledge for the vast majority of upper secondary school students, except for those who study considerably more than natural sciences. The subject exists today, but there may be a need to develop its didactics. Those possibilities exist. In addition, there is a commission for the Swedish National Agency for Education to evaluate which subjects, additional training efforts and peer learning efforts are needed. There I know that the issue of sustainable development, which concerns, among other things, the kind of discussion that has been highlighted here, is one of the issues that recurs. Another part that I would really like to emphasise, and I agree with Mr Rothenberg, is the need for facts to take on board the scientific method. There I look with the same concern at the discussions that have taken place about the school in one of our superpowers and sometimes also in our country.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-424	Mr President, I would like to My intention in this interpellation debate is to raise the issue. I believe that many of the colleagues on the benches in this House have not considered these issues. There are many in civil society and around the country who do not understand the importance of geology skills. One reason for this is that they have not gained the knowledge at an early stage. Nevertheless, I can see that there is a positive understanding of the subject. I hope over time that the knowledge of geology can increase in Sweden. If nothing else, it will be good to have the knowledge with you when the railways are to be expanded in the country. It requires stability. Nothing is cut into stone. One thing is certain, namely that I will come back to the matter.
i-36fbcf57132591ac-427	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to that, Hans Rothenberg. It should also be mentioned in this context that there are ongoing talks between the government and the bourgeois parties about the primary school's hour plan based on the commission given to the National Agency for Education. It also addresses issues relating to different subjects. Perhaps one can make a reflection, which is related to Hans Rothenberg's introduction to his final speech, on why we in Sweden have chosen the order that we politicians decide in such detail exactly what schedules should look like and which topics should be lifted up. In many other countries decisions are either at the educational level or at the level of teachers in different schools. A large part of the schedule – the curriculum – in, for example, the Finnish school is made by the teachers in each school. That would give greater scope to the kind of considerations we are discussing here.
