i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-0	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has great challenges, but a lot of things are going in the right direction. New business is growing, the restaurant industry is growing, the pace of housing construction is the highest since the million-dollar programme days and foreign investments in Sweden are increasing. There are simply many who believe in Sweden, and there is a reason for that. Our growth is higher than in most comparable countries this year, and we see a stable growth rate in the coming years. The large budget deficit inherited by the government is almost wiped out, despite the increased costs of migration. We have a clear path towards balance and surplus, and debt as a share of GDP is decreasing. The development in our surrounding world is uncertain, not least because of Brexit, but the Swedish economy is on the right course and development stable. What are the Swedish success factors? One thing that distinguishes Sweden from many other countries is the high participation rate – that many are in the labour market. If you listen to parts of the economic debate, you might think that this is because Sweden has very low taxes, but we all know that this is not the case. Rather, it seems to be because of everything that taxes fund: welfare services that make it safe to bring children into the world, preschools and recreation centres, but also care for our relatives and good health care. All of this makes it possible to combine family with working life and to keep working through life, because nowhere in the EU you retire as late as in Sweden. This is good, because the Swedish model is based on everyone who can work to work. Another success factor is that we have stable private consumption, which comes from the fact that we have long had good real wage increases – wage increases for broad employee groups, not only for those with high incomes but for very many. We do not have low wages in Sweden. We have stable growth instead. An increasing number of international assessors and economists point to this very point, that equality and a cohesive society are not at all contrary to economic development, but that, on the contrary, reality shows that it strengthens growth and innovation. We can see that investment in our country is developing strongly. We have a competitive business environment with well-trained and ambitious employees and entrepreneurs. That makes it attractive to invest in our country. These are success factors that go hand in hand with the transition to a green economy. It is important, not only for us to take responsibility for future generations, but also for us to take responsibility for Sweden's competitiveness. We therefore strengthen support for local climate change, we adjust taxes to reduce resource waste and promote reuse, we cancel allowances and we increase climate aid to support other countries in reducing their emissions. We will not sit with our arms crossed and point fingers at the rest of the world – that they should do their homework. We will also do our homework when it comes to climate change. On the basis of the historic Paris Agreement, in particular, we will take precedence. We will take our responsibility for the climate challenge, and we will consolidate Swedish leadership. It is not only right and proper to do so, but it also creates new green jobs and export opportunities for Swedish companies. Much of what I have talked about can be summed up in the concept of the Swedish model: forward spirit, modernity and development optimism that comes out of the feeling of security. On the basis of this model and with very clear political priorities, we can now begin to see the results of the government's work. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people, long-term adult unemployment has fallen clearly, youth unemployment is at its lowest level since 2003 and the employment rate in Sweden is the highest ever measured in an EU country. This, Mr President, is what the government wants to build on. Mr President, I would like to The government takes responsibility for Sweden, also by holding its wallet tight. Firstly, we take responsibility for public finances through a tight and balanced policy. Compared to the forecasts this spring, financial savings are significantly strengthened. The budget deficits we inherited are on the path of balance and surplus, and public debt is falling. We see that confidence in Swedish public finances is very high on the international stage. This means that public finances can be strengthened at a pace that safeguards the socio-economic balance, but not through policies that damage development by the fact that thousands of people would have to be laid off in school, health care and care, nor by the re-emergence of the expensive and inefficient tax-merger policy of the previous government. This government takes responsibility for public finances. Secondly, we have taken responsibility for Swedish refugee policy. When it turned out that the previous migration policy was not suited to the situation that prevailed, we changed it. Sweden, of course, continues to accept and grant people a residence permit, but we are now taking a responsibility that is more proportionate compared to other EU countries. With this changed policy, we can write down the forecast for migration expenditure in this year's budget proposal by SEK 100 billion in the coming years. The revised policy also provides better opportunities for effective integration. Thirdly, the Government takes responsibility for the development of costs in a number of areas. This applies to social security and other benefits. This applies to sickness rates, where we now see that progress is slowing down. We believe that the agreement with the social partners, which the government has encouraged, will be able to deliver further results with regard to health insurance. This also applies to the cost of unaccompanied children and young people, where we are now finally creating cost control and reducing the compensation for the expensive forms of housing that have been used too habitually to date. But this also applies to the large tax exemptions and subsidies that have been phased out or reduced because they simply did not provide all the jobs promised. Fourthly, the government takes responsibility by stepping up work against tax evasion, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning costs huge amounts each year. Work on implementing the government's ten-point anti-tax evasion programme continues. In the budget, we also propose increased resources to the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Financial Crime Agency to work against cheating. We also change the rules so that employers report income monthly for each employee. It increases tax revenues by around SEK 2 billion, at least, but it is also an opportunity for serious companies to have better competitive opportunities and not have to be outcompeted by rogue companies. We will continue our work. We will continue to hold tight in the wallet. We will continue to keep an eye on both expenditure and tax subsidies. We will never accept cheating or fraud. This is how long-term, stable and sustainable public finances are achieved. This is how we create the conditions for a modern community building.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-17	Mr President, I would like to Sweden faces major challenges. Too many people are still unemployed in our country. Too many children do not reach school goals. Too many older people do not feel safe in their daily lives. At the same time, our new arrivals will quickly get to work, so that they can also contribute to the construction of society. These are challenges that the government is taking on with full force. But the first and greatest challenge is to keep our country together. To achieve this, we must maintain a high level of employment where people can also live on their wages. It is also the case that everything else that we want to achieve together is based precisely on the fact that everyone who can work is also involved and contributes their work to the construction of society and to the financing of welfare. Here we need to ensure that unemployment is pushed back further and that employment is maintained. What is needed then is additional language skills, professional skills and experience. Therefore, the government is providing additional resources for the Knowledgelift by doubling the number of professional adult positions, to strengthened Swedish education, to a new permanent apprenticeship for adults, to fast track in some twenty occupations, to modern preparedness jobs within the state and to better extra jobs for those who are long-term unemployed. Sweden will compete with knowledge and competence and not with low wages. General wage cuts do not keep up a demand that allows companies to start new jobs. General tax subsidies have been tried. It has been very expensive for taxpayers, but it has proved useless to bring employment up. Instead, we need to focus efforts so that each individual receives exactly the support it needs to get a job. The second major challenge facing us is prosperity. Here we see that the number of employees in relation to the population decreased in the bourgeois years. Many people today feel anxious. Do my children get the schooling and the knowledge they need? Do my parents get the care they deserve? Do I myself receive the care required on the day I fall ill? And what of the country, in the place where I have my roots? The government takes responsibility for the welfare. We are in a situation where businesses, municipalities and county councils were already severely strained. As the population grows, it is particularly important that we secure and strengthen these activities. For example, it is about our school students getting better education and not a worse one when new students come to school. Therefore, the government implements a historic investment in welfare by contributing SEK 10 billion per year to the school, preschool, health care and elderly care. It is the single largest reinforcement of state subsidies to municipalities ever. Together with previous efforts that have been made, this represents over 30 000 employees in our welfare activities. I am, of course, prepared for this to be an issue. Is it so that you see the shortcomings? Do you see people's anxiety and insecurity? Do you see the staff, who so obviously need more colleagues? Do you see the districts, areas and regions that have been neglected for too long or have fallen behind? Do you see this, or do you prefer to go back to a policy where tax cuts and tax subsidies were the panacea that would solve everything, where sales of leases were more important than building new ones, where privatisation of common assets was more important than strengthening and seizing up the activities that will solve the tasks that we reasonably solve best together? Here the government parties and the Left have a consensus. This budget is the result of our cooperation. The reason we make these priorities is, among other things, that it is more decent to take responsibility for each other through a well-functioning welfare than to leave each other wind by wave when we need each other most. But it is also about the fact that it is more effective to meet basic needs if we do it together and for everyone. Basically, it is about our labour market, about our business community and about our strength in global competition, because all of this depends on the welfare supply and development. This is how the Swedish model is built. It has delivered not only an equal society but also a very high standard of living. That is why we are working to develop the Swedish model – not phase it out.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-28	Mr President, I would like to Literally in passing, the Minister of Finance begins by saying that Sweden has some challenge – point. She then says that many believe in Sweden, that all the figures point in the right direction – if there was one problem, one is about to solve it right now, and by the way, the Alliance created problems when the Alliance fought against the biggest financial crisis that we have had since the 1930s. That's a hard summary. What you're not saying is almost more telling than what you're saying. You don't mention the alienation. You don't mention the dependency. You do not mention the gaps that are growing between those who work and those who are not allowed to work. You hardly mention that we have an integration problem in Sweden. Why do you find it so incredibly difficult to see the problems that almost all Swedish families are talking about today?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-31	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that there is now a slightly broader consensus in Sweden that there are problems with large gaps. When we brought it up in the election campaign, it wasn't quite the way it sounded from the Moderates. I think that is a welcome step forward from the Moderates and Ulf Kristersson. The problem is that the policy that Ulf Kristersson pursued when he sat in the government increased the gaps by choosing to spend money on reducing taxes – mostly for those who earned the most. This government has changed its policy and violated the tax and cutting policy. Instead, we make sure to invest in what builds our whole society stronger. An important part is precisely to level the gaps. There, the welfare billions are extremely central to breaking segregation. Much of that money will go to school. In addition, the government has invested 10 billion in targeted support for the school so that all children can get a really good schooling. That, Ulf Kristersson, is politics that can break gaps and reduce segregation. In addition, we make sure to work with more people to enter the labour market. We have clear proposals in this budget, including modern preparedness jobs in the state. We develop the additional services in welfare, where many newcomers can have an opportunity. We also make sure to work more with people who are far from the labour market. Last but not least, it is important – when we see that there are 350 000 unemployed and 100 000 job vacancies – to ensure that they are matched together. It is also a policy that reduces segregation and breaks exclusion when, for example, you get a nursing education and can get your first job. That is what this policy leads to.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-37	Mr President, I would like to The big gaps in our country are between those who work and those who do not work. The long and long-term gaps are between the families where someone goes to work and where no one goes to work. The great differences between children in our country are between the children who have parents who have jobs and income and those who do not. Yet you watch the alienation grow. Next year there are 915 000 people in your corresponding calculations. You can see it's growing. You're not talking about integration. You're not talking about the problems of entering the labour market. You are talking about the kind of concerns that, although present on the Swedish labour market, do not help the people who are now permanently parked next to them. Why do you put so little effort into what are the really big problems in Swedish politics?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-40	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson might listen a little better. That is precisely what I mentioned – the fact that if we are to be able to hold Sweden together, we must also get more people to work. I fully share the view that the big gap is between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. Therefore, a clear focus of this government is to bring up employment and reduce unemployment. It is a policy that has worked. We have a higher employment rate than ever. We have the highest employment rate measured by Eurostat in any EU country. We have a falling unemployment rate, and we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. This does not mean that we are satisfied, but that we will continue to work on this policy. But it was obviously more successful than the policy pursued when Ulf Kristersson was in the government.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-43	Mr President, I would like to A report from the European Commission shows that in 2048 Sweden will have the second worst pensions throughout the EU. People will have less than half of the total final salary, including possible occupational pensions. It may seem quite far in the future, but it is in some sense in the nature of the matter when you are talking about pensions. As a representative of a social-conservative economic policy, I prefer a long-term horizon rather than dealing solely with the next parliamentary term. 800 000 elderly Swedes are today in one way or another dependent on a guarantee pension. A quarter of a million old Swedes live below the EU poverty line. It is unworthy of Sweden, Mr President.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-47	Mr President, I would like to This government has done much to safeguard the daily lives of the elderly. Of course, in addition to having invested in a more secure care for the elderly, the 10 welfare billions will also mean a lot to make our elderly feel safe in the care of the elderly. We have increased the housing allowance for pensioners. We have also abolished the unfair pensioner's tax on pensioners with the lowest pensions. It was a promise made by the Swedish Democrats in the election movement. But when they had the opportunity to vote in this House for reduced pensioner tax, they had changed their mind and voted against it. It is just another example of the flexible attitude of the Swedish democrats towards their electoral promises and other promises that they have made. Another example is school profits. The Swedish democrats told their voters that they did not want a profit at school. But after Oscar Sjöstedt had been courted by the business community and had been allowed to enter the fine room and flirt with the business establishment, it no longer mattered what he had promised the voters. No, then it was more important to be friends with the business establishment than to stand up for the promises they had made to their voters. We also see this when it comes to public procurement. Even there, Oscar Sjöstedt is courted by the business establishment, and it does not matter what he has stood in Parliament and said. No, then it is more important to be friends with business leaders and get into the fine room than to stand up for Swedish employees' rights to have reasonable wages and Swedish companies' opportunities to compete. Then Oscar Sjöstedt wants us to use tax money instead to compete out Swedish companies and compete down the wages of our Swedish employees. That is how much the promises of the Swedish Democrats are worth.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-51	Mr President, I would like to We'll end up a little off there, but I'll lead us back on track. It is not really the way that it is the municipalities that are paying out pensions in this country. We have an old-age pension system and a state that does this. An unmarried guarantee pensioner today has a pension of SEK 7 952 per month. I want to increase it by at least 10%, that is to say, almost 800 kroner a month. In fact, there would have been a need for even greater increases, but given that we have a government that has conducted an irresponsible economic policy, we have very limited budgetary space. Within a maximum of four years, i.e. by 2020 at the latest, it is my ambition to completely eliminate the unfair tax gap between pensioners and employees with which the government has not been able to cope despite the fact that the Minister for Finance claims it. I'd still like to ask you a question. Does the Minister of Finance want to stop behind that ambition, or should the issue be postponed indefinitely as usual?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-55	Mr President, I would like to This government has done a lot for our pensioners, and we continue to do so. However, we note that the Swedish democrats, who promised to reduce the pensioner's tax, then chose to press the 'no' button when they had the opportunity to vote in favour of that proposal. Here is something that is clear about the Swedish Democrats, namely that there is one thing that takes precedence over everything else. Here it does not matter what they have promised in the Parliament Chamber and what they have promised their voters, but the most important thing of all is to be part of the establishment. They want to be able to flirt with the business community. I also associate with the business community and meet the organizations of the business community. But I do not let my constituents or Swedish employees and Swedish companies down to flirt with the business community in the fine rooms. There is a clear dividing line between us.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-58	Mr President, I would like to It is here and now that we need robust solutions to a number of societal problems that cannot wait. Should there be something here and now it is based on the fact that those who are in the government today actually deliver. This is how Swedish politics is structured and works. In light of this, I am concerned to see that the Minister for Finance and the Government passively want what the next government should do instead of delivering concrete policy here and now. I have some examples of this, Mr President. When the police get on their knees and we need more police in both the interior of northern Sweden, where it may be hours before the police arrive, as in the suburbs of the big cities, the government calls a press conference and says it will invest in the police. But when you look at the figures, you see that it is not here and now – when the government can decide – that the money comes; it is during the next term, after the next election, that someone else should be betting. It is the same when the government presents a historic environmental package. In fact, 75% of what the government promises will be delivered by the next government. The same pattern is on the infrastructure side. Don't get me wrong, Mr President. The Center Party, which has the ambition to be part of the next government, will deliver investments in the police, in infrastructure and in the environment. But if we want something here and now, the Minister of Finance has to face up to his responsibilities. Magdalena Andersson, I wonder why you don't make sure to influence politics now, while you have the chance?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-64	Mr President, I would like to Cops need training. There's not a big bunch of cops waiting to be hired on January 1, 2017. That is why we need to step up funds for the police, and that is exactly what the government is doing. For next year, the police have requested about SEK 800 million. Now we increase the funding by SEK 100 million. But in addition, the police are making large surpluses this year, which they will be able to bring in next year. In other words, next year the police will in principle receive the same funds as they have been requested. As I said, this is because it takes time to train police officers. Then, of course, we want to do more here and now. We do a lot of things. We have increased the environmental budget by 73% compared to what it was like in the time of the Alliance. These are massive increases. We're adding 10 billion to our welfare. We protect our welfare and ensure that we have good activities. But we can't do everything at once. It is because we are protecting public finances and taking responsibility. There is a big difference from what it was like when Emil Källström's party sat in the government, when we saw increasing deficits every year. Instead, we can see that this government is taking on public finances and pursuing a responsible economic policy. Then you can't do everything at once either.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-66	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the basic problem is that we have a government that cannot prioritise, a government that takes small investments on everything. But nothing comes of anything. It is gratifying that the Minister of Finance here in Parliament acknowledges that she is adding an eighth of the money that the police themselves need in new appropriations for the coming year. Furthermore, if we see the increased costs and rents of many of the properties paid by the police, this means that there will be fewer resources. The same applies to infrastructure and the environment. It is obvious that it is possible to invest and get exchange for more than the small money that the government brings over the next two years when you actually have the chance to make a difference. Together with the rest of the Alliance, we will deliver investments in police, infrastructure, environment and much more after the next election. But it is regrettable that the Minister for Finance does not take the chance to make a difference now while she has the opportunity.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-70	Mr President, I would like to I can congratulate Ulf Kristersson on the fact that he no longer has to agree with Emil Källström on an opposition budget, because it does not sound like it would be quite easy to get the figures together. It was not now when you were in a government position either, and that well explains why the deficits increased each year. This government, on the other hand, takes responsibility for public finances – but also ensures that priority is given so that we can make important investments. As far as the police and the properties are concerned, there is always a PLO that collects, among other things, increased salary and rent costs. You will have about 700 million more – 100 million plus 600 million – to move in next year than this year, thanks to the fact that you have to take the surplus with you. There will be nothing, says Emil Källström. Well, the fact that 30 000 more people will be able to work in welfare because of government policy, I think, will be noticeable, not only among these 30 000, but also among all our children, the elderly and the sick who are taking part in the welfare of our country. I think that will be a great pleasure.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-73	Mr President, I would like to The government is pushing integration problems into the future. There are no ideas for how the dependency on subsidies that is now emerging will be broken, and the government itself states that its own policy is not up to date. Yesterday we heard that of the promised 32 000 trainee jobs there have been about a hundred. We could hear that for the 25 000 extra services promised, the ambition is now only a tenth. It is clear that employers do not want the government's constructed jobs. Instead, employers want real jobs, which break benefit dependency. Magdalena Andersson now presents unfunded grant increases. It is unfunded grant increases that make Sweden weaker and that are combined with ordinary people getting increased tax. Magdalena Andersson increases the tax so that 150 000 Swedes are now – in the eyes of the government – regarded as high income earners and will pay government tax, where one can retain less than half of the last earned hundred. We are talking about midwives, police officers and engineers who are now high income recipients in Magdalena Andersson's eyes. At the same time, the government ensures that the bank manager does not receive higher marginal tax. It aims with clinical precision tax increases at broad groups in our society where many work at the core of welfare. Magdalena Andersson! How fair is it that midwife gets higher marginal tax when the bank manager doesn't get it?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-76	Mr President, I would like to It is quite correct as Mats Persson says; the trainee jobs have not become as many as we in the election movement thought they would be. This is due, among other things, to the fact that youth unemployment has surprised the upside – it has fallen much faster than we predicted in the electoral movement. We now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. Trainee jobs are mainly aimed at young people with upper secondary education, and many of them have jobs. Therefore, the demand for trainee jobs is not as great as we feared in the election movement, and so we are now widening the groups that will be able to get trainee jobs. We also increase the tax on bank managers by reducing the job tax deduction. If you are a bank manager and earn a lot of money, you no longer have a job tax deduction. Mats Persson says we raise the tax, and then I have a question for Mats Persson. Will Mats Persson pay higher, same or lower taxes on the same income in January 2017 compared to December 2016? For he will have the same income.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-78	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government and Magdalena Andersson do not want to see reality as it is. Every day 90 000 young people between the ages of 16 and 25 do not go to work or study. They don't do anything. They are dependent on benefits and are not active in the labour market at all. Among new arrivals who came to Sweden a few years ago, benefit dependency is monumental – 40% of those coming from outside Europe are unemployed, and many of them live on subsistence and social assistance. The dependency on subsidies is huge. The government's solution to this is constructed jobs that do not solve any problems at all, and this policy should be paid for by ordinary people. This policy is to pay for midwives, police officers and engineers with the tax increases that are now taking place. There are 150 000 new people who have to pay government taxes. Why is this fair?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-80	Mr President, I would like to Now there was not much about tax increases. Mats Persson also did not answer the question of whether he will pay the same, higher or lower tax in January 2017 compared to December 2016. This is because the change he announces as a major tax increase actually means that he will pay lower taxes in January 2017. Maybe he should be a little careful about how he markets various reforms.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-81	Mr President, I would like to You can really hear the radio report: a strikingly satisfied Minister of Finance in the debate. Or perhaps, as the younger say these days, is more right in the literal sense of the words. Because there is something to be expected about hearing this satisfaction while we actually have a situation in which trust that the public can cope with its fundamental missions is failing. We have a brutal division of the labour market and a budget, empty of job reforms, which prevents people from entering a working community. We have a police crisis, even if the Prime Minister does not want to see it, but reasonable contributions will only come in several years' time – for civil servants can be hired already now. There are no structural reforms for equality and accessibility that respond to the needs of welfare. It's like the government has a house with several holes in the ceiling, and instead of fixing the holes, it pulls out a sun lounger, sits on the porch, calls his friends and says: What's the problem? The economic sun is shining. Not worrying about tomorrow is not a good strategy for a government. The government seems to want to become like the birds under the sky that do not harvest and collect in the barns. Now borrowing is being increased to the cost of expenditure reforms, and job reforms are not being sorely sown in order to reap income for the welfare of the future in a few years' time. Instead, there are charges for working and hiring. There will be 40 billion in increased taxes – most of it at work. Politics may not really possess Salomos's splendor. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance if there is anyone who still believes in the government's unemployment target. Is there a single independent judge who believes that government policy as a whole contributes to more jobs?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-86	Mr President, I would like to It was very nice to hear Jakob Forssmed's question, because it was the one Erik Ullenhag always used to ask. It feels good that his spirit hovers over the premises, and we send a special thought to him in Amman. Of course, we'll keep working on fixing the roof. The parts of the government that are not sitting here are right now nailing on the roof to make sure to fix the holes Jakob Forssmed and his alliance colleagues left when they disappeared from Rosenbad. The most important roof tile we have in the budget is 10 billion for municipalities and county councils, so that we can protect the welfare and make sure to patch up that part of the broken roof. Another important roof tile is the investment we make in more people getting into work. It is about targeting those who are further away from the labour market but also about improving matching so that the employers who are looking for labour but do not find the right skills, which is another broken roof tile we took over, should be able to do so. The two things are supposed to work out. Another broken roof pan that can become very worrying now with climate change, which can give us worse weather, is the underinvestment the Alliance left behind in terms of climate. This is where the government steps up. We take on the climate challenge and make sure to get more roof tiles to fix that part of the broken roof. So step by step we make sure to fix the broken roof we took over two years ago.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-90	Mr President, I would like to Should the Minister for Finance's answer be interpreted as saying that Minister Eriksson, Fridolin and Strandhäll are not fixing the roof? There is much evidence of this, but it was good that we got it black and white here in Parliament's Chamber, right out of the mouth of the Minister for Finance. Some work to fix the roof; others sit in here and don't do this. I think that all the ministers need to devote themselves to the main tasks that they actually have: the housing crisis, the crisis around security and, above all, about jobs. Your major change on the job side of this budget is that you write down the forecasts for your own reforms. You say: we no longer believe in this! We do not believe what the Prime Minister last year called the biggest job investment in Sweden for many years. Now it's falling apart. The fast track – such as the trainee jobs and the extra services – seems to have become a pit track that is also overloaded by this administration. We need substantial reforms that take down the thresholds. Bring forward the robust reform tools so that we can break the two-way divide in the labour market!
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-93	Mr President, I would like to The fact that trainee jobs are reduced due to the lower number of unemployed young people is, in my opinion, a good development. Few young people with upper secondary education do not have a job. So there are not so many trainee jobs that were aimed at these young people either. It is clear that the government's policy for more jobs has an effect. We are seeing a decline in unemployment. We see the highest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. We see a decline in long-term unemployment among adults, and we see the highest employment rate in the EU. We see 120 000 new jobs created over two years. It is, of course, important for the government to continue this work. We are not satisfied with today's unemployment or with the forecasts. We will continue to deliver more jobs and better reforms to bring more people into employment in every product that I will put on this Parliament's table.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-96	Mr President, I would like to In November, the United States elects a new president. Never in modern times has free trade and openness been as questioned in the world's largest economy as at present. The USA is no exception – the list of economic and political risks in Sweden's surrounding world is getting longer and longer. Europe's economic crisis is now turning into political fragmentation, at the same time as the negotiations on Brexit are about to start. In both China and Russia there are at least as strong reasons to worry about political and military developments as about purely economic ones. All of this affects a small country that builds its prosperity on international trade and successful export companies. But even here at home, the discomfort is creeping out. High GDP figures are blackened by burning cars, social exclusion and increasingly obvious integration problems. Bad schools, shootings and everyday crimes that are not even investigated today dominate many Swedes' everyday conversations. We have had shadow societies, organised organised organised crime entering government agencies, tax crimes and subsidy fraud in increasingly advanced forms. Many people are doing well in Sweden, but more and more people still think that Sweden is developing in the wrong direction. If not the political conversation in here – and the leadership! – takes this seriously and starts to devote more effort to the big issues and less to the small ones, we can lose something fundamental in Sweden: trust and respect that politics, despite differences of opinion, actually solves serious problems. I am concerned that the legitimacy of Swedish society is being damaged right now. It takes generations to rebuild. Mr President, I would like to The prerequisite for solving social problems is to see them, understand them, recognize them and point to possible ways out of them. Leadership is not to exploit concerns but to take the concerns seriously and prioritise and focus on what is really important for our country. But then you have to have a plan, and this government is aimless. It is unable and does not want to prioritise and focus. It's actually wandering around. Last week's declaration of government contained 3,795 words but missed two. Not once was the exclusion mentioned, nor was the word integration mentioned. The government does not take note of the two most obvious problems facing our country. On the contrary, they minimize and minimize them. When the Moderates point out that the equivalent of 1 million people are at risk of living on subsidies, the government explains the increase in flu also included in the statistics. When we tell them that 260 000 foreign born have no upper secondary education and that 200 000 of them are over 35 years old – while unemployment is sky high – the government reluctantly admits that a few thousand might need a simple job to get in, but the government has no plan even for this. It is not leadership; it is senselessness. Instead, the government declaration was filled with compromised symbolic policies that avoid all major problems: a new equality authority, forced quotas in a couple of hundred listed companies and architectural policies for sustainable urban environments. Actually, I don't ironize. One may think differently in substance, but this is the wrong focus in Swedish politics. Mr President, I would like to This budget lacks long-term reforms that can build Sweden stronger. There are no reforms that put more people into work and break the dependency on benefits, and there are no reforms that ensure that second generation immigrants gain better knowledge of Swedish and about Sweden than their parents could get. There is a lack of reforms that build up the Swedish economy in good times for the next crisis. Let me point out three serious shortcomings in the government's economic policy right now! This year, Sweden's economy is entering a boom, but the development has not occurred in a vacuum. It was the structural reforms of the 1990s, the wise management of the financial crisis, increasing employment and reducing exclusion that laid the foundations for today's growth. But the government's current economic policy is not sustainable. If Sweden has negative interest rates and expansionary fiscal policies at high growth, and when cyclical unemployment is close to zero, what will the Ministry of Finance do when Sweden has low growth and rising unemployment? The government is pursuing an economic policy as if our country will never again suffer a crisis. The government is also mismanaging public finances. Seven parties agreed in June on a new surplus target, but the government will borrow for new expenditure and increase the deficit in the Swedish economy next year. The crown for the crown means taking responsibility for financing their reforms. If you want to increase expenditure in one area, you reduce it in another. Most economists agree that at this point it is the responsible way of managing the economy. The Moderates did not accept that the government wanted to abandon the whole principle of budgetary surpluses. Nor will we compromise the principle that it is in good times that we are equipped for bad times. It's more work – not more loans – that sustainably pays for the welfare of the future. Mr President, I would like to The second error is that the government underestimates the problems that Sweden now faces. The government is satisfied with its figures, but the Swedish people are not as content with the development of society. The integration of several hundred thousand new arrivals is the greatest political task of the coming years. Unless more people work and both support themselves and contribute taxes, the foundation of Sweden's welfare country will be eroded. We have a high level of unemployment among people who do not have the skills that are now in demand, but who are also not allowed to start a new job with a simpler job. The government halves the RUT deduction and brings surgical precision one step in exactly the wrong direction. Many children are not allowed to see their parents go to work at the beginning of the day and then be paid at the end of the month. Then alienation is inherited. Even worse segregation leads to increasing problems in our schools, and in one in three municipalities, unemployment among foreign born is over 30%. While the risk of social assistance dependency is one in a hundred natives, ten out of a hundred are born abroad. This is dangerous. Quite ordinary people, who previously believed in an international, open and successful Sweden, are starting to believe in simple solutions. If you do not take those signals seriously, you do not understand what is happening right now in Sweden.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-109	In school, too, the government does not understand the extent of the task. Many schools are good, and many students are doing well, but others are doing really badly. Every seventh student leaves comprehensive school without upper secondary school qualifications. Of the children who come to Sweden after school starts, more than half fail. Research teaches us that no children get so bad from leaving the ninth grade without full grades as the vulnerable children – those who had a difficult time from the beginning. More math, more Swedish and more good teachers are necessary to reverse the development. Then it is not good enough to find reforms, such as renaming days off for reading holidays. The government opts out of quality and knowledge reforms and puts its weight on symbolic politics. Incomprehensible percentage profit ceilings will close good free schools, when Sweden should raise the quality of all Sweden's schools. The third major problem, Mr President, is that the government is reducing its willingness to work. Instead, the government raises the contributions and increases the marginal tax for 1.3 million Swedes. They're not high-income people. Four out of ten are police officers and midwives. There are a lot of craftsmen and the vast majority of engineers. After three years of tax increases, it is about SEK 19 000 less for a family with children. If it becomes less profitable to work, it reduces the desire to work full time, to take more responsibility or to educate yourself once more. It is bad economic policy in a country that is competing precisely with skills. When demographic trends advocate a higher retirement age and better incentives for older people to work more, the government punishes them over 65 with a very special wage tax. The government is thus reducing older people's willingness to work when Sweden, on the contrary, should take advantage of their experience. Sweden is a fantastic country, and we have solved difficult problems before. It must be possible to change the policy when it no longer works. In Sweden, we combine strong values with pragmatic solutions. Therefore, Sweden will fight both fraud and tax evasion and protect both work ethic and tax ethic. Now the task is to build a stronger Sweden in a very troubled environment with stronger companies, stronger families, stronger public finances, a stronger rule of law and a stronger defence. The elections in two years' time will test who wants to take on exactly that task and who is just satisfied or hopes that everything will soon blow over.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-116	Mr President, I would like to Symbol politics, says Ulf Kristersson. I can mention two things that Ulf K ristersson calls symbolic politics, namely 10 billion targeted state grants to the school – symbolic politics – and 10 billion general state grants to safeguard welfare – symbolic politics. For Ulf Kristersson, everything that does not mean tax cuts is mostly for those who serve the most symbolic politics. It's just about how to define things. One must be able to change the policy when it no longer works," says Ulf Kristersson. That's interesting. We saw during Ulf Kristersson's time in the government how the number of marginalised areas increased. Child poverty and the financial vulnerability of parents increased when people were forced to leave the unemployment fund or were insured by Kristersson's insurance policy and instead had to live on subsistence support. Large-scale sales of rental apartments diluted the segregation. Schools and health centres were established primarily in prosperous areas. Added to this were major unfunded tax cuts, which mainly went to those who were already well off. None of this came of itself during your years in power, but it was the result of conscious political decisions. Now we can see problems with growing gaps. But it's gonna be hard. Ulf Kristersson also says that one must be able to change the policy when it no longer works. How would a sixth job tax deduction have so much different effect than what Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 did? How has the map been redesigned so that more tax cuts will reduce unemployment when they did not last? How will this increase respect for law and order when it did not last? How will tax cuts increase the sense of belonging, community and keeping our society together when they didn't last?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-120	Mr President, I would like to I'm saying that you're sprawling in all areas, and you're not focusing on the big problems. Problems can be valued differently. The voters can say that you do not think the problems they describe are the major social problems, and so you do other things instead. That's what politics is all about. Then they can vote you off and vote us in. Eight ten years ago, the Moderates identified two problems that we considered fundamental to Sweden. One was that it paid too little to work. There were too many who felt that it was not worth working a little more than today because marginal taxes, taxation on labour, were so high. One of Sweden's major social problems was that so many were not prepared to work a little extra because the government took the money from them. That's why we made it more profitable for people with normal income to work. We introduced the job tax deductions. If the job tax deductions were as bad as the Minister of Finance says, the Minister of Finance would have removed them. There's a reason she hasn't. The second problem we identified was that far too many people live on subsidies. For many people, even though they have capacities, they end up in early retirement. You are wasting capacities in Sweden. We did something about that problem too. I'm not saying we solved all the problems. I'm not saying we didn't make any mistakes. I'm not saying we shouldn't be self-critical. But I say that we focused on what we thought was the real concern and set ourselves up to do something about it. Today, that picture looks a little different. Many fewer people are retired early. There are quite different problems. Many people are never allowed into the labour market. There is still a high level of taxation on low incomes. The major problem in Sweden is not the taxes of the high-paid, but the taxes of the low-paid, which, together with the benefit levels, make it less profitable to work than to live on benefits. This is one of Sweden's really big problems. Then we solve that problem and refrain from many other things that are less important.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-126	Mr President, I would like to That was clarification, but there is obviously a major dividing line here. I think it is very important to reverse school results. I think that school is a very priority. That is why we have invested 10 billion in targeted state subsidies for schools. When Ulf Kristersson mentions what problems he sees in Sweden, he does not address the school. The other things he mentioned, the government also invests a lot in the budget, but the government also believes that school is a priority area. For me, it is extremely important that all children who attend Swedish school should receive the support they need to meet the goals. It is crucial to break segregation, break exclusion and ensure that every child, regardless of parents, can grow, develop and reach their full potential. It is an important priority, but Ulf Kristersson does not think so. That's where we split up.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-129	Mr President, I would like to The quality of school is awfully important! There are far too many schools today – public and private – that do not deliver the quality that we must demand, both for us who pay together and for the children who leave school with a lack of knowledge. Then what do you do? You are discussing whether it should be 7 or 8 percent profit ceilings in an incomprehensible construction. You compensate Sweden's municipalities with 10 billion for fewer people working and paying taxes to these municipalities. Already last spring we gave 8 billion extra only to Sweden's schools, to more math, to more teachers, to higher teachers' salaries, to better control, to better inspections. Don't let a kid out of school without the skills they have the right to demand. You continue to deal with symbols rather than bite the problems, identify the problems and then come up with credible solutions.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-133	Mr President, I would like to In June 2013, the House decided, on the initiative of the Moderates, on a completely insane piece of legislation in my opinion. It was then decided that people who violate Swedish law by staying illegally in the country should be rewarded by being offered healthcare and dental care, subsidised by honest and honest taxpayers. Part of the Swedish Government was thus tasked to find these individuals, who thus violate the law by staying here illegally, while another part of the Swedish Government acted in the opposite direction and facilitated and rewarded that behavior. Mr President, I would like to I have a very simple question for Ulf Kristersson: Are the Moderates behind this decision to this day, given the consequences it brought, or have they changed their mind on this point and thus regret this decision?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-136	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the Swedish Democrats have missed the fact that last autumn things happened that led many parties in the Swedish Parliament to change migration policy – sometimes because it was absolutely necessary, sometimes because there were significant shortcomings in the old policy. There is no doubt that these changes have been important because today there is better order in Swedish refugee reception. Nor is there anyone in here who misses that you always see the people who come here as the big worry. I do not share the basic view of people coming from other countries. There are still many errors and shortcomings in Swedish migration policy. We will spend many years making it better; I am convinced of that. But basically we must respect the people who have had difficult conditions and who are in our country and who want nothing more than to contribute to the future of their new country.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-139	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I'm sure we can agree on that. But will these things be pursued in this House as well? We have a rather interesting parliamentary situation right now. Let me take an example. Not so long ago, the Moderates made a somewhat embarrassing attempt in my world to make it appear that they have always advocated a ban on the present and organised begging, despite the fact that this House has always voted against such proposals and has always opposed that line. Will the House take any initiative in this direction, or is everything just a game for the gallery? Is it important to pursue proposals in this House too, or is it enough to write debate articles and be active on social media and then be satisfied with it? Not that it doesn't matter, but is it enough? Will there be any real initiative?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-143	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have changed our migration policy quite properly, partly because there were shortcomings in the old one, partly because the reality has changed fundamentally. I do not rule out further changes in many things, including how we should seriously ensure that those who get a yes get the very best chance to enter Sweden and contribute to the common and that those who get a no actually leave the realm. There is clearly much left to do. But our normal tradition is that we take our policy, present it in formal motions in the Swedish Parliament and seek support for that policy. You will see this in just a few weeks when we present our budget bill, Oscar Sjöstedt.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-146	Mr President, I would like to The government has now had two years, and the trend is changing in several areas. Large investments are being made in schools, unemployment is falling sharply and the largest investment budget on climate and environmental issues in Sweden's history is now ahead of us. The government invests in the sustainable construction of society rather than in major tax cuts. We invest in a Sweden that stays together. The proposals presented so far by the Moderates do not impress. When five job tax deductions didn't do the job, you suggest a sixth. How would it create the jobs that the first five did not contribute to? At the same time, Ulf Kristersson and the Moderates have begun to swing in certain taxes. In the last parliamentary term, we wanted to withdraw cuts in employers' contributions for young people because it was an expensive and bad way of reducing unemployment. Then we received massive criticism from the Moderates. Now that we have implemented our policies and youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years, the Moderates have also realised that it was reasonable to revise their policies. Now the Moderates, unlike their friends in the Center Party, have let go of the idea of completely restoring the reform. Who knows, perhaps the Moderates will change their mind even if other taxes they so strongly criticize, such as environmental and climate taxes. It is reasonable not only to complain about our tax policy and our reforms, but also to talk about what cuts you intend to make yourself. What cuts in welfare do the Moderates want to make this time in order to reduce taxes? In what way does Ulf Kristersson believe that it benefits a sustainable construction of society, such as investments in school and climate and environmental work?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-151	Mr President, I would like to To say no to a bad proposal put forward by the government in the Riksdag, for example to extend construction subsidies by SEK 6 billion, is not the same as to make a cut. That is to say no to an idea that wastes money and uses that money for something much better. In rhetoric, it is much easier to say that all expenditure is good and that anyone who says no to expenditure wants to cut something. But I say: Let people keep the money themselves, or collect in the barns for the event that Sweden is once again in financial difficulty. That's my answer. To say no to bad politics is not a cutback, it is to save the Swedish people nonsense.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-154	You have to be careful when deciding what taxes you charge and what taxes you choose to lower and increase. All taxes have consequences. For my part, I am convinced that taxes on labour are by far the worst form of taxation. Therefore, we are careful about it and are doing everything we can to avoid high taxes on labour, as high taxes mean that people live on benefits or at best work in black. We are less cautious about other taxes that we believe have less negative effects. Here you have to think hard. If you'd been so serious about the job tax deductions, you wouldn't have taken them away and stood for raising the tax significantly for everyone who works. But you obviously don't think like that either. It is better for people to feel that they can keep the money themselves and be gentle. But then you pretend that everyone who earns 36 000 kroner a month is a high wage earner so that you can raise the tax for them. It also has bad consequences. Finally, the effort you are making on the environment is, of course, for some strange reason late, long after the end of this parliamentary term.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-158	Mr President, I would like to I also think that money should be better spent, especially tax and state resources. When it comes to construction, however, we see that it is increasing and is larger than it has been since the millions of programme areas were built. I look forward to reforms from the Moderates who will do the same. When it comes to construction, not everyone can get more tax relief and build their own houses, because that's not how it works. That is why the common ground needs to go in. I note that the Moderates still saw the tax proposals in the budget without saying which bets should be removed. Another issue where the Moderates do not focus on reforms is equality. We have a feminist government, and this budget takes further steps. Among other things, a gender equality agency is proposed, which Ulf Kristersson calls symbolic politics. What is the Moderates' proposal for greater equality? Can't possibly lower t a taxes be the answer there too.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-163	Mr President, I would like to If you like me have three daughters who are 13, 13 and 16 years old, there are many gender equality issues you worry about almost every day. The only question I do not worry about is: Is there an authority for their equality? That's the only question I've ever asked.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-164	This is symbolic policy of the worst kind. No 13-year-old girl is less bullied online. That doesn't make any 16-year-old girl playing football any more seen than the boys on the football field. It's silly symbolic politics. There are so many real things to deal with. How are more girls going to get the training that makes more girls succeed really well in the most advanced professional life and lands in management teams and boards? How can more women seriously compete with men for the most important jobs if we so systematically have a labour market for women and a completely different one for men? There are so many real things to do. A gender equality authority is not part of it.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-167	Mr President, I would like to What if the Moderates had disliked poverty rather than disliked the fact that the poorest have some sort of reasonable economic standard? Or what if, instead of chasing the sick and unemployed, the Moderates had realised the importance of the Swedish model and made sure that people who have the bad luck of becoming unemployed or ill have it financially safe and that we had a welfare system that can be trusted. What if the Moderates instead of fighting for the richest to expand their deductions and have even greater tax cuts had put the power to improve for single parents? What if the Moderates had proposed home visits to tax evasion rather than to those receiving support? But then the Moderates wouldn't have been the Moderates, would they? Time and again, the Moderates lift up the economically vulnerable and suspect them. I often hear Moderates talk contemptuously about subsidies, which are really insurance, and that there is a need for a ceiling on subsidies. But I never hear them ever mention that a deduction ceiling would be needed for the richest. It is said that the economically vulnerable are far too well off, which would counteract their willingness to work, contribute to the construction of society and support themselves. That is why those living in relative poverty increased so greatly under the bourgeois government. That is also why the Moderates gave priority to the already wealthy. They abolished the wealth tax. You pay as much in property fee for a villa in Danderyd with pool as for a terraced house at home in Sätra in Gävle. You are happy to tell us that you want to reconsider your politics, Ulf Kristersson. Yet you are proposing a sixth job tax deduction that gives ten times more in tax reduction for one who earns $100,000 a month than for one who earns $25,000. Everything's the same. When does the review come? Will the Moderates ever present a budget that reduces economic disparities and gives the economically vulnerable more than the richest?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-174	Mr President, I would like to No, we're not going to agree. It's quite obvious. We have completely different orientations, and we see completely different problems in our society. I think neither you nor I suffer from that, Ulla Andersson. I just told you we're going after tax evasion and subsidy fraud. We're supposed to protect tax ethos and work ethic. There is a public contract in Sweden that is based on both doing what you are expected to contribute and receiving what you need. It's a pretty sensitive contract. It is based on both doing one's duty and demanding one's right. It is quite clear that this social contract has existed for a long time in Sweden. When we try to point out that it is a concern if we have tax levels that are so high that people do not work, I do not say that it is a legitimate reason for people to escape tax. Of course it's not. But that is certainly a reason for people not to want to work extra. That is certainly a reason for people not to get a new education. That's certainly a reason not to take a new job as a manager when it pays so little more. I say that I have problems with the subsidies available because they are needed. If you stack them on top of each other, they become so high overall that they can compete with an earned income. That is an obvious problem. Virtually every country in the world that has tried that way knows that it is a concern and tries to deal with it without removing the contributions that are made because people on special occasions in life may need our common care. If you mishandle this, you will have a country where you distrust the people who occasionally need our help. One will have a country where people do not think it is worth contributing to the common good. I don't want that society.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-179	Mr President, I would like to The parade of the Moderates is to distrust those who are economically most vulnerable. We move in different parts of society you and I, Ulf Kristersson. I've never met a person who doesn't intend to work because you have to pay taxes. Maybe it's on Östermalm. But at home in Gävle, I haven't met anyone. You're telling me that you focused on the really big problems. I'd like to take a sample of what you did during your reign. You lowered the ceiling of the medical allowance. You introduced a precipice. You cut down heavily on labour market measures. You removed the right to deduct the union fee. You raised the fee to the unemployment fund and made it more difficult to qualify. You deteriorated the part-time stamp. You reduced the compensation in the unemployment fund and in phase 3. At the same time, you introduced tax deductions for waiters at the parties in Danderyd and for pool cleaning, and you abolished the wealth tax. That is what I call building a very fragile society, a society that absolutely does not stick together. How was it now, Ulf Kristersson, would there be any review of your policy, or are you just going to wander on in the same usual unequal footsteps?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-182	Mr President, I would like to I don't know where you were in the '70s and '80s, Ulla Andersson. Give me the name of the economist who seriously believes that it does not matter whether there are economic incentives in the labour market and in the tax system. Those economists do not exist at all. My second point is as follows. I've been working on Socialborgsråd in Stockholm. At that time we were dealing with problems that the most vulnerable had, the homeless in Stockholm. We are talking about people who have permanent social security benefits. What we did was seriously try to get to the bottom of: Do you have any ability that we could take advantage of so that you don't live on donations? Can we help you get that job so that at least a few hours a day you could work for a salary? Do you think it matters if that salary is lost to 100% or if they are allowed to keep that salary while they're working? Does it matter to the new arrivals who are now trying to work during the asylum period? They will first get through the entire Swedish Tax Agency and then discover that every penny they earn took the Swedish Tax Agency back in the form of punishment.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-186	Mr President, I would like to It has surely not escaped any voters that Sweden suffers from a historically weak minority government, but it can, after all, be emphasised. In a particularly cynical experiment, the bourgeois parties have released a socialist government, a government supported by fewer than every third citizen. Socialism, this destructive force. Mr President, I would like to In recent weeks I have been accused of pursuing something as terrible as a business-friendly policy. In fact, I'm very proud to hear such terrible accusations. An industry-friendly policy is what is needed to create more jobs so that the unemployed can get to work and so that those who already have a job have a stronger negotiating position with their employer. The greatest and most important security for ordinary honest employees is not found in labour law, nor in the local trade union or trade union. It is found in the knowledge that there is good access to jobs. That, Mr President, is my whole motive for pursuing an industry-friendly policy. Anyone who really wants to achieve full employment should understand that a prerequisite for this is sensible, reasonable and sensible conditions for business. It is not something that can be dictated as an order job from the head of government to his department heads. Nor can you force so-called trainee jobs. Of 32,000 promised, there were 125. Socialism will never be able to solve unemployment, especially as long as one is dependent on the support of the old Communist Party. Mr President, I would like to We politicians are sometimes a little sloppy when we talk about taxes. We say a little generally that we want to raise or lower one or the other tax. But when you talk about taxes, there are at least two elements: the actual tax rate as a percentage and the actual tax charge in dollars and coins. This is actually a little more interesting than it sounds. It is something that does not necessarily correlate with one another in the way that one might instinctively want to believe. That is to say, it is in fact quite possible to reduce the tax rate in percent but still increase the tax charge in crowns. That applies in all cases inversely. It is perfectly possible to increase the tax rate but to reduce the tax charge. The former should reasonably be something desirable. Unfortunately, however, the government has succeeded in the reverse. The tax rate has been increased without increasing the tax rate. At the government's entry, Sweden had the second highest marginal taxes in the world. After raising the income tax – that is, the tax on labour – we are now the first in this less flattering league. 60% marginal tax is not reasonable, Mr President. The economists sometimes talk about something they call the Laffer Curve. It describes precisely the relationship between the tax rate and the levying of taxes. If you raise the tax sufficiently, the actual tax charge decreases and you get less public resources for school, health care and care. The world's highest marginal taxes on labour leads to less resources for welfare. Nota bene: It is not only I who claim this, but it is a thesis confirmed by, among others, the Council of Finance Policy. But the dynamism of the economy is something that the socialists cannot and do not want to understand. Mr President, I would like to One of the reasons for the disastrous failure of labour market policies is the failure of education and training policies. Here too the clever economists happen to have a concept: The so-called Beveridge curve measures the relationship between unemployment on the one hand and the number of vacancies on the other. One could instinctively imagine that if the number of vacancies on the labour market increases, unemployment should decrease, but instead the trend has been exactly the opposite: we have received more vacancies and higher unemployment. There is a marked mismatch in the labour market. It starts already in school, where quantity takes precedence over quality in all situations. It's about more teachers instead of good teachers. There is also an unsympathetic trait of contempt within the Social Democracy for the traditional craft professions and practical trainings – professions where there is indeed a need for skills. At the same time, the importance of higher academic education is exaggerated. On top of everything, the government borrows money for its reforms and debt future generations of Swedes in the midst of a fiery boom. John Maynard Keyne twists in his grave. The Minister of Finance has, on several occasions, been maligned by the fact that her predecessor borrowed money during recession. But she borrows hundreds of millions of dollars each day in prosperity. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats will propose, among other things, a proper and comprehensive system of apprenticeships focusing on the needs and wishes of smaller companies. We will turn to the more than 300 000 high school students and the more than 600 000 adults in this country who do not have a high school degree. This will be a major reform in our forthcoming budgetary motion. 358,000 companies claim to be willing to accept one or more apprentices. We have listened to their wishes. Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago I saw the Moderate Party leader in Agenda, I think it was. I was struck by two things. First of all, I thought about how much a politician can be a stereotype of himself. It is about the inability to answer a reasonably simple question or the ability to answer a completely different question from the one actually asked. Somewhere I imagine that the political contempt that exists in the cottages in some places is largely based on this: the inability to answer yes or no to a rather simple question asked. The second thing I was struck by, Mr President, was how the party leader in question repeatedly claimed that the Swedish Democrats have no solutions to Sweden's challenges. At the same time, the Moderates have repeatedly copied their solutions from the Swedish Democrats. What does it really say about that party, which copies and plagiarisms all its proposals from another party while accusing the other party of having no solutions? Mr President, I would like to I think it was none other than Abraham Lincoln himself who said something like this: You can fool some of the people all of the time, or all of the people some of the time, but you can't foot all the people all of the time. Perhaps it is something that the Moderates should begin to relate to. The voters have not forgotten that it was the Moderates who pushed through an immigration policy that put Sweden in a state of crisis, and the party's credibility on these issues is low. The idea that we Swedish democrats would have no solutions to exclusion and segregation is simply not in harmony with the truth. This will be very clear when we present our own budget exercise. However, we do not really mean the same things when we talk about integration. When the old parties talk about integration, they only talk about integration into the labour market. And absolutely – it is of course very important! Participation in the labour market is hugely important. But does it automatically mean that you are also involved in the rest of society? Does this mean that you share identity and loyalty with the Swedish Empire? No, I'm afraid it's not quite that simple. Your analysis is incomplete and incomplete. And to be honest: stop saying that we lack solutions when the only solutions you yourself present are pure plagiarism from old honest Swedish democratic politics! Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats will be even clearer in integration policy. The old parties have tried one reform after another for the decade after the decade. All of them are basically ineffective, and you won't succeed this time either—not as long as you don't come to your senses and start working with us.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-205	Mr President, I would like to When the economic elite calls the Swedish Democrats, they stand up mangly. Time and again, they side with the economic elite. One time it is the venture capitalists in welfare who call and offer something good, and the Swedish Democrats have changed their minds. Election promises are no longer worth anything. Surely the profits of venture capitalists are far more important than the care of grandmother and the education of children? And what are they worth to the political game and a good dinner? This time it is the workers and the nicest companies they sell out. For a long time there have been alarm reports that public procurement has contributed to wage dumping in the labour market. That is something that is totally unacceptable. In the latest service procurement in Stockholm, we can see wages as low as SEK 27 per hour for taxi drivers. On such wages no one can live, and taxi companies with collective agreements have no chance of competing. We have seen cleaners with wages as low as $8 an hour and nurses with $2 an hour. We see how small serious construction companies refrain from participating in procurements because they cannot or do not want to compete with as low wages and poor conditions as are required to win. Around the country we see how serious and decent haulage companies are being knocked out and how the jobs of construction workers and truck and taxi drivers are being threatened. The public sector procures goods and services for around SEK 600 billion per year. Of course, tax funds should be used in the best possible way. It is high time to put an end to the possibility of winning procurements through low wages, poor working conditions or harmful working environment. In addition, it is of the utmost importance that procurements stop disadvantaging serious companies that provide the right conditions. It should be seen as a matter of course that tax resources should not be used to dump wages and working conditions, at least if you are on the side of the workers and the small companies. But the Swedish Democrats do not intend to do that. Why, Oscar Sjöstedt, do you want to continue with wage dumping through public procurement?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-209	Mr President, I would like to It is not surprising that the old Communist Party has such a disgust with venture capital. But start-ups, as well as companies that are reasonably established on the market, depend entirely on the existence of venture capital to enable them to grow. It's hugely important. This is impossible to kick-start a company for money you don't have. Our hope is that these companies can thus grow and employ people. Then people who previously didn't have jobs can get a job. It's amazing! Capitalism is wonderful in that way. But I understand that the old Communist Party does not think so, and we probably do not agree on this either. The bill that the government has been working on on its own for two years without talking to the opposition, even though it is a minority government, contains such enormous negative elements that we absolutely have no choice but to vote no and reject it. I do not intend, together with my party, to help exclude, in principle, the majority of small businesses from this large and important industry. I will not take my side with me and contribute to such a bill going through. I will not join with my party in making a law that says that the foreign company with posted labour may have worse conditions than the Swedish company with honest, ordinary Swedish employees. Never in the world will I and my party contribute to such legislation. It could reasonably have been understood as a Minister of Civil Affairs. Now they have not done so, and neither have they talked to me on this matter. Then it'll be like this.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-214	Mr President, I would like to Poor Oscar Sjöstedt! He's almost moved to tears because the Secretary of State hasn't called him. He thinks truck drivers, taxi drivers and construction workers should pay the price for that. You're even standing here in the speaker's chair, and you're fumbling, Oscar Sjöstedt. Either you haven't read the bill or you're lying. That's not what you're saying. The legislation is written in such a way that it favours decent companies and so that they can compete on equal terms with foreign companies and are not excluded because they want contractual wages and conditions. You sacrifice truck drivers, taxi drivers and construction workers. That is what the Swedish Democrats are doing. You want to use SEK 600 billion to make it worse for a lot of ordinary workers and decent and serious companies. That's what you do. That's what you're doing. Unfortunately, wage dumping seems to be the melody of the Swedish democrats.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-216	Mr President, I would like to It takes a little more than a civilian minister to move me to tears. The legal text of this bill states that the companies, the employers, who can apply the Posting Act, i.e. those who have foreign posted workers, are considered to meet the specific labour law conditions only because they have posted workers, because they must not impose such requirements under EU law. That is, every time a municipality or county council enters into terms and conditions regarding occupational pensions, insurance or something similar, the Swedish company with Swedish employees must live up to those conditions, but the foreign company with posted foreign workers may have worse conditions but is still considered to meet the requirements. A competitive disadvantage is thus being built into Swedish law for sjysta Swedish companies. I and my party will never contribute to such legislation. That should have been understood in advance.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-219	Mr President, I would like to It is now half-time in the term of office. There have been two eventful years both in Swedish politics and in the world at large. It has also been two years of hard work for the government. When the Social Democrats and the Green Party took over, developments were heading in the wrong direction in several areas. Now, after two years, the curves point in the right direction. Trends are changing. Unemployment is falling, especially youth unemployment. 120 000 more people have a job to go to, and Sweden's economy is making strong progress. It is the end of massive tax cuts that undermine welfare. Instead, the line of the Green Party and Social Democrats is investment for the future – investments that provide jobs and contribute to the sustainable construction of society. This is done, among other things, by the major investment in railway maintenance, which provides climate benefits and jobs, through the 10 billion invested in welfare every year, by reducing the economic gap between women and men, and by the fact that there are now 13 000 more educators in school, that more and more people are looking for teacher education and that the size of children's groups in preschool has decreased. The previous government invested nearly 20 times as much in tax cuts as in school. But now the trend has changed. There is more money for early intervention so that all students get the support they need. A read-write-count guarantee shall be introduced. Schools with major challenges are given more resources. Teachers' working conditions and salaries are improved. That's how a school grows up where there are adults who see each student. Mr President, I would like to Last year in Paris, a new climate agreement was signed that will slow global warming if the right political decisions are taken. For the first time, both the United States and China are on the train, and Sweden again has a leading role in international climate work. This is evident in the budget presented today. It contains the greatest effort on the environment and climate ever. Climate change and the urban environment agreements, which are now being properly extended, give money to local and regional actors who have good proposals to reduce climate emissions. The desire to change is great and there are many good ideas to take advantage of around the country. We're supposed to take care of the planet we have, says a farmer in Gagnef in Dalarna. He grows potatoes and has so far driven his vehicles on diesel. But he tried to find a way to switch to a fuel that is better for the environment and climate. With the help of money from the climate class, he is now investing in his own biofuel gas station where not only he himself but also others can refuel climate smart. In order to achieve the Paris Agreement's aim of no more than one and a half degree heating, work on emission reductions must be stepped up outside the transport area, for example in the residential area. This is why the government wants to create a national centre for sustainable construction. This is how the results of energy research and sustainable renovation experiences will be made available to more people. It is part of the government's efforts to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-226	The government has previously set aside large sums of money for protection of a valuable nature, and this budget follows up with more marine reserves. The budget also includes efforts to reduce the use of harmful chemicals, particularly in children's environment. We are the largest donor to the UN climate fund, and we make it easier and cheaper to make environmentally smart choices in your everyday life like fixing your shoes or washing machine instead of buying new ones. Mr President, I would like to We are now entering the second half of this term of office, and we are doing so with curves pointing upwards. It takes time for changes to become visible in everyday life and reality. But now it's starting to be noticed – at jobs, at school, in climate work and in terms of gender equality. Today, on the 35th anniversary of the Green Party, we celebrate by laying down the greenest budget ever. The visions of the Green Party are as vivid as ever, and in all our work we strive to realise them, one step at a time, on the basis of what is possible to achieve right here and right now. Let's reverse the trend.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-229	Mr President, I would like to Janine Alm Ericson concluded with the words: In this particular case, that is precisely the problem. During the time of the Alliance in power, climate emissions from Sweden decreased by 19 per cent. Now Sweden's total emissions as well as emissions from the transport sector are increasing. I think few people thought that was what was waiting for us when we first got environmental-partisan ministers. I also believe that few people expected it to be environmental-partisan ministers who would introduce completely new taxes on renewable small-scale energy. Nor do I think that many people expected that, once you brought your fellow governments to present a so-called historic environmental and climate effort, 75% of it would be in place for the next term of office and would in practice be up to the next government to carry out. Now, in the coming years before the next elections, there will be very little investment in the environment. Seen in the light of the fact that environmental emissions are now increasing in Sweden after a long period of reductions, isn't it here and now you would put in real efforts? Wouldn't it have been better, Janine Alm Ericson, if you were engaged in proper politics now instead of waiting until after the next elections and having the next government carry out its reforms? Isn't it worrying, Janine Alm Ericson, that emissions are increasing in Sweden under environmental-partisan government involvement? And would it not be better for this government to do something in the near future to face that development?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-233	Mr President, I would like to I absolutely agree with Emil Källström that it is extremely worrying that climate emissions are increasing. Unfortunately, it is not only the government's budget that can remedy it. A whole host of things have to be done, and we're working on it. However, it is gratifying that the Center Party clearly states that a much sharper climate and environmental policy is needed. I look forward to supporting those proposals. In the budget that the government is now presenting, the government has really invested. There is an agreement, supported by several parties, that the Energy Commission should work towards the 100% renewable target. It is a work that we will intensify. We have set ourselves the goal of being one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. It is extremely important to point out the direction. We are investing heavily in climate change and the urban environment agreements. But, as I said, it's not a quick fix. It happens step by step. And the investments that are coming are extremely important. In terms of climate, Category 20 General Protection of the Environment and Nature has increased by 73% since the Alliance was in power. There is therefore a lot of effort on both the environment and climate in this budget. I'm a little interested in what the Center Party will come back with. What efforts do you see that we can make to reverse emissions reductions when the outside world looks like it does?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-238	Mr President, I would like to I do not doubt the good will of the Green Party. And I don't doubt the Green Party's ability to come up with expensive projects that sound good but make no difference. We also see that emissions are increasing now that we have, for the first time, received environmental partners in the government. Janine Alm Ericson should have learned what the difference is between my environment policy and that of her. First of all, we see results when center parties are in the government. Then we will have high economic growth while at the same time reducing emissions. The policy of the Center Party is based on green tax shifting; it lowers the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship and increases it on the resources that damage the environment. The small environmental tax increases made by the government are overshadowed by four to five of the job tax increases. Then there will be no results. And that's something we all lose out on.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-241	Mr President, I would like to I'm not sure that expensive projects that sound good are the right definition. This government is investing a lot in both the environment and climate challenges. We fully agree that we should invest in good and not bad projects. That is also why the Green Party is in this government and is making great efforts on what matters. We can't influence everything. But we influence where we can. We are presenting the largest environmental and climate budget ever. It also includes increased climate aid, greater investment in the railways and an emission brake in the future. I look forward to the Centre Party's offensive proposals in this area.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-244	Mr President, I would like to Janine Alm Ericson's party leader, Gustav Fridolin, promised to solve the school's problems in 100 days. 700 days have passed now, and little has happened. Gustav Fridolin is Minister of Education. It's quiet from the Green Party on those issues, and it's quiet from the Ministry of Education. At the same time, we have a great reception for refugees. 46 000 children applied for asylum in Sweden last year. There are big differences between how much money the municipalities spend on school. There are large differences in results between municipalities. In Sweden we have problems with order in school. And we see a complete lack of initiatives to shift the focus of knowledge into schools. In what way, Janine Alm Ericson, is the study results better because Gustav Fridolin and the Environmental Party have put in the handbrake at the Ministry of Education?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-247	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government spent 20 times more on tax cuts than they invested in school. That's the legacy we have from that government. This government has invested 10 billion in school so far during its term of office, in addition to the welfare billions of which a large part will go to school, to the municipalities that see for themselves where it is best to invest. In the municipalities, large resources will be spent at the school, as there are major challenges there. We also see that it is important to make other investments. For example, the read-write-count guarantee, which we are now introducing, is incredibly important. If students do not have the reading with them, it is difficult to cope with the rest of the knowledge development. Teachers are also an important key to meeting the challenges facing the school. We are reducing the regulatory burden on teachers. We'll raise the teacher's wages. We increase the number of places in university teacher education, and we make it easier for teachers who want to return after once leaving school. We see this as very important reforms in order for us to have a much better school in the future. I look forward to a proposal from the Liberals, which is not just a nationalisation and that the municipalities should be stripped of the responsibility that we have given them.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-252	Mr President, I would like to The municipalities are clearly in need of increased support at this time, not least when many new people come to Sweden. Liberals will match the government's proposals for welfare billions. There's no difference. But Swedish school is in need of major reforms. We see big problems with mess and disorder in our schools. And there are big differences between municipalities in how much money you spend on school. Data came up last week that the municipality that invests the most is twice as much as the one that invests the least. That is totally unacceptable. In Sweden there is a need to previously focus on knowledge in school. One example of how this can be done is the Liberals' proposal for a ten-year primary school. The government can't hear anything. In the latest bill list, there is a single proposal on this from the government. It is a reform-tired government that does not put forward any proposals in the field of education. How does the Green Party's handbrake in the Ministry improve the school's performance?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-256	Mr President, I would like to Just because Mats Persson can't hear us say anything about the school area doesn't mean we're not doing anything. The great difference that exists between schools today is not acceptable. Therefore, there is Collaboration for the best school, where resources are clearly spent on schools with the greatest need. That is another thing that we think is extremely important. Liberals say there is a need for major reforms. But I hear nothing but that they want to renationalise school and introduce ten-year primary school. I do not really see how it would solve the problem of children leaving school without sufficient grades to move on to high school and then on to life. Liberals need to make far more proposals if they are to have a school policy that can seriously take us forward and meet the challenges of the future.
i-VR5vNnRGn29QTrzsSbCZKP	Mr President, I would like to Congratulations on the 35, Janine Alm Ericson! Some are in crisis at 40. You mentioned that we have reached half the term of office and that it has been eventful years. You can agree with that. Some of the events have meant that the Green Party has surprised the outside world. Some surprising things have been good, for example, that you, along with some of us others, were involved in saving nuclear power from rapid decommissioning. It is now visible in the budget, and is a good thing. Some things that have been surprised have been negative, such as a refugee policy that keeps parents separate from their children for a very long time, despite promises to the contrary. The scrapping of the gift tax credit has been mentioned many times in this House, and the Green Party has not reconsidered it this year either. You still think it's right that it was scrapped. You went to elections to reduce employers' contributions but then raised them for the elderly. With this budget, you are also raising them for people who come from unemployment and sick leave into new jobs. You also accept that an investigation may continue, despite the fact that the investigation according to your own expert deals with proposals that may lead to the socialisation of entrepreneurship in healthcare and care. Of course it's a giving and taking in a government, I know it. But the take itself – as Emil Källström pointed out earlier – seems to be on the other side next election day. The climate impact of this budget is 100 million per year before the elections, and after the next elections it is 700 million per year. It is the same with climate change adaptation: 10 million now, 70 and 120 million respectively after the next election day. Rail maintenance: 200 million more now and after the next election day. The same applies to energy research. This seems to apply most of the time, with the exception of the urban environment agreements. You are ruling a Sweden with very big challenges: the division of labour markets, welfare, the police and, not least, housing. But when it comes to the budget, it feels like you're sketching your election manifesto in two years' time. Why have you given up these challenges?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-265	Mr President! I note that Jakob Forssmed is as confused as he did in the last debate when he took roughly the same line of reasoning and asked the same questions. I can be clear that the Green Party, together with the rest of the government, is presenting a budget in exactly the direction that we promised the voters for the elections. It includes investments in schools, investments in jobs and investments in the environment and climate. This is the only way we can tackle the challenges of the future. Of course, as Jakob Forssmed says, it is a compromise. But we are putting forward budgets for four years to come, so it is no wonder that we want money for our investments in the future. This is also the case for other parties making their bets. We hope to stay and implement our proposals. We see that it is crucial if we are to meet the challenges in these and other areas, so that we have an offensive job agenda. I hope that we can continue to invest proper resources in the school. But I would like to ask Jakob Forssmed how he himself intends to fulfill his electoral promises in this economic situation. At the press conference earlier today, there was a rather loud tone about both one and the other, how bad this budget is and that we are not succeeding in what we intend to do, as I see it absolutely will. But what do Jakob Forssmed and the Christian Democrats want to cut down on in order to get together the budget that you paint that you want?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-271	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I don't think I'm the only one who's a little confused. There are probably more people who have noticed that the Green Party has not carried out all the things on which elections were held. In some respects, exactly the opposite has been done. It's not just the undersigned who's confused, but I think it's more. It is clear that there are many things that we are critical of and will reject. We believe that parts of labour market policy are ineffective. There, quite different job reforms are needed. We do not believe that the solution is to increase taxes on jobs as strongly as you do. Then we think there will be fewer jobs done. Reforms are needed that seriously lower the thresholds into the labour market. We will also reject building subsidies, which we have talked about in this House in the past. Construction subsidies were announced in spring 2015. There would be billions of dollars spent on these, and it would be free to build. But still, 18 months later, the regulation allowing the payment of subsidies has not been decided. Is there also something to be postponed to after the next election?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-274	Mr President, I would like to Construction is an enormous common challenge. That is why the government invited the House Talks, which the Alliance left despite the fact that there were several good suggestions on the table. F mud of them now implements the government. We're very happy about that. Job reform is clearly included in the government's budget. On the other hand, there are not the job proposals and reforms that the alliance parties and Christian Democrats want to see where it is a wage-sink policy rather than addressing the big challenge of matching. Overall, we can see that the budget presented by the government is a balanced budget for jobs, schools and the climate – exactly what we promised the voters before the elections.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-277	Mr President, I would like to The government has today presented perhaps the most boring budget of all time. A reading of Magdalena Andersson's budget bill is as full of shoulder twitches as it is free from eyebrow elevations. The big initiatives and the bold reforms that Sweden needs shine with its absence. Instead, we see a passive government shooting Sweden's structural problems ahead and being saved by the boom. Red-green policy is meaningless, and it does not meet Sweden's challenges. Mr President, I would like to The government's budget has such a lack of new ideas that my budget statement, which should be devoted to commenting on the government's proposals, could have been over now. But it won't be quite yet. Instead, I will focus on the reforms that Sweden needs and the challenges that will define in the coming years. Sweden has a great need for reform, and it is now that we have to make the right decision if we want our country to continue to be a welfare country in the economic world summit. Our country has great opportunities. We are an open, creative, innovative country. Swedish companies produce products and services that change the world. Despite the vacuum left by a poor government of action, there is reason to be fundamentally optimistic and positive. Mr President, I would like to On the surface, Sweden is doing well. We are in the midst of a boom, and it is impressive to see how the Swedish companies, not least the job creators of the small and growing companies, develop, how they hire and how they invest. But it is clear that we are not making the best use of this boom. The government uses the good times to cover up its own flawed policy rather than develop it, rather than maximize job creation and equip Sweden stronger. In the shadow of the boom, we see a two-way division of Swedish society emerging, a two-way division where they have both permanent work and orderly housing on the inside as well as a good level of education. Those who do not enter the community find it very difficult to open any of these doors. The fact of the government's failures can be seen in the government's own tables. Swedish exclusion has increased and will continue to increase every year with the Government Löfven. The labour market is also stagnating in the government's own forecasts, which are the most optimistic when compared to other assessors. The government now openly admits that it will not achieve its own goals of Europe's lowest unemployment, and that is no wonder. In order to achieve Europe's lowest unemployment rate, Eu needs its best policy. The government does not even have Sweden's best policy. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we see a division of Swedish society. There is a division between insiders and outsiders on the labour market and the housing market. There is a division between those who have education and contacts and those who do not. In addition, the division between city and country, between regional winners and losers is growing ever stronger. In order for Sweden to become a country that sees and meets these worrying trends, a new policy and a high pace of reform are needed. In order for our country to become a place where everyone has the chance to grow, develop and become part of the community, a new leadership for Sweden is required. Mr President, I would like to The government represented by Magdalena Andersson raises taxes by over 40 billion per year. It is a government that has more than doubled the employers' contribution for young people and has reduced the success of job creators such as the RUT deduction and the ROT deduction. The government increases the marginal tax rate for millions of employees. The transfer systems are being expanded, the costs of health insurance, for example, are being ignored and the budget is being put forward after budget with large deficits in the midst of a booming boom. At the same time, it consistently refuses to reform and modernise the Swedish labour market and the housing market. This creates lock-in effects and inhibits development and growth. Central areas of society need change, but the government pretends it's raining. In view of all of this, it is no wonder that many people in our country are concerned about the future, we have seen measurements of this only in recent days. It is no wonder that the labour market is stomping. It's no wonder the alienation's getting stuck. Instead, a policy is needed for more jobs in growing companies and lower taxes for small businesses to hire and for those who give a young person or a new arrival a chance to get into work. We must have new ways into employment, broadened RUT and ROT deductions, entry jobs and entry companies that make sure that the first step into work, entrepreneurship, employment and value creation is also the easiest step. We must remember that it is the small and growing companies that are Sweden's job creators. The relationship is clear between more and growing companies, the number of jobs in the private business sector, the size of Swedish tax revenues and what welfare we can jointly finance. It is important to see the whole picture here. We must improve the possibilities for newcomers to work while learning the language and making contacts. At the same time, we need to improve opportunities for our most highly productive companies and businesses through, for example, lower marginal taxes and employee options. Sometimes the simple jobs are contrasted with the more well paid. It is a false image and a conflict of interest that does not exist. Sweden needs both. When the government gets stuck in old tracks and believes that increased funding for the Employment Service and expensive and inefficient labour market measures are the way forward, we need to show the alternatives and stick to a policy that creates real jobs in real businesses. Because that's the only way we can finance our welfare in the long term. Madam President, I would like It was when the Green Party entered the government that Sweden raised the tax on renewable energy: a completely new tax on solar energy. I think many were surprised, and many had probably hoped for more of Sweden's first environmental party minister. Unfortunately, this was not an isolated incident. During the time of the Alliance in power, greenhouse gas emissions decreased year by year while the economy grew. Now we are seeing the overall increase in Swedish emissions and in the transport sector. So it will be with a government that keeps the talk higher than the result. Environmental policy is not about who designs the finest Powerpoint images or makes up the most expensive government funded projects that sound good. If we're going to save this planet, it's the results, the results and the results that apply. When the government fails with environmental policy, we all lose out. Madam President, I would like Instead, we must return to a policy of green tax exchange. If you increase the tax on environmental damage while lowering the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship, it is good both for the environment and for jobs. The government's budget overshadows the bar for increased environmental taxes, many times taking place for tax increases for jobs and entrepreneurship. The failure of environmental policy illustrates how the government consistently fucks up important and defining challenges for our generation. There is much to be done in Sweden, in Swedish society and in the Swedish economy. We need new ways into the labour market. We need to address as diverse challenges as how our labour market works and how our housing market works, i.e. central areas of society. At the same time, we need to address less but acquaint ourselves with such important challenges as how we finance our police and ensure that there are good resources for the judiciary. We must also protect Swedish food production at a time when, not least, the dairy farmers are on their knees. There is much to be done for a powerful government. Then it is not good enough to postpone important reforms and say that the next government will have to take hold of it after the next election and for the next two years itself only present pious hopes or small sums. Sweden needs a new political leadership that takes hold of, meets, sees and does something of the great challenges we have, but also of the fantastic situation that the Swedish economy and Swedish social life have in global development.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-302	Madam President, I would like I was going to continue on the subject of taxes that Emil Källström was discussing in his speech. If I am not completely misinformed, the Center Party is behind the government's proposal to introduce a so-called chemical tax. I'm sure that's a great idea in many respects. After all, we use excise duties to steer behaviour in a certain direction. I think we agree on that principle. But chemicals in general are not exactly evil. After all, I myself and Emil, and even the President, consist exclusively of chemicals. The Centre Party wants to impose penalties on something that we, as legislators, have decided to use, for example, flame retardants in television sets, as the Center Party is concerned about. Then I get a little confused and wonder: how is it reasonable that we, as legislators, first decide that those who build or sell a television set must use flame retardants and, at the next moment, impose penalties on them for using flame retardants? Does the logic of excise duties not fall a little with such a system?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-305	Madam President, I would like First of all, I am very aware that everything around us is made up of chemicals. I must reassure Oscar Sjöstedt that we do not want to introduce a tax on all chemicals at all times and everywhere. These are a number of dangerous substances which we would prefer not to use and which we simply want to start phasing out by introducing chemical tax wisely. There are alternatives in the various cases, and these are the options we want to find through innovation and new thinking. There are many examples showing how the legislator, through first financial incentives and then pure bans, actually forces the use of the alternatives. What is important is also what resources are used for. This is, of course, part of a green tax shift and of obtaining funding to reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. The proposal must be seen in the light of this. It is not about generally increasing the tax burden on Swedish entrepreneurship or the Swedish job creators, on the contrary. Overall, the tax burden on companies that use even these funds will be reduced by reducing employers' contributions and many other taxes. We do not introduce mileage taxes and other things. That's how a green tax shift works. Finally, I would like to say that whatever the source of the tax, whatever environmental taxes are used and whatever one chooses to tax, it has consequences. But I think we all agree that we have to tax something. Otherwise, we will not get anything that can fund our welfare. But it is always someone who has to pay this tax, and that insight should be used in the following way: to constantly ensure that the tax intake is minimised and to ensure that as much of the economy as possible can stay among people, companies and associations, where it is most useful. That is why we are slowly but surely, the budget for the budget, are going to lower the Swedish tax rate and the Swedish tax intake.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-309	Madam President, I would like It is reassuring to hear that at least not all chemicals are to be taxed. I didn't suspect that either, but it was nice to hear this. But I'm not making any sense. If we in Sweden, as the proposal says, start unilaterally taxing televisions, for example, something that most people have and can therefore relate to, the bottom line is that it is cheaper to import the product from neighbouring countries that do not have the corresponding tax. It's pretty easy to shop online these days. If production or sales only move abroad, there is virtually no environmental benefit whatsoever. However, a number of jobs disappear from Sweden to Denmark, Finland or Norway, for example. Companies like Net On Net, Media Markt and Elgiganten will only move from Sweden to our neighbouring countries. That cannot really be the aim of such a reform.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-312	Madam President, I would like The problem with Oscar Sjöstedt's reasoning is that this applies to all environmental taxes all the time and everywhere. If we were to think this way, Sweden would not be able to introduce any environmental tax at all, because there is always some other country that does not. Then there's the risk that everything will move there. Had we had this reasoning, we would not have been able to tax carbon dioxide at all, because Saudi Arabia does not tax carbon dioxide at all. Then all the activity in Sweden that emits carbon dioxide will move there. It will result if the reasoning is drawn all the way. Now this was a balance that was struck. It was believed that the introduction of a number of environmental taxes would nevertheless be beneficial for the environment, even though other countries had not implemented them. It is an important balance that must be constantly struck, an important perspective. There are absolute examples of taxes falling into the second category and are not worth introducing. I think that introducing a world-unique tax on fertilizers would be unwise, because it would mean that Swedish farmers would already be under pressure even worse. There are such options. But the chemical tax is good.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-314	Madam President, I would like With the Green Party in government, we have now seen a very sharp increase in appropriations for climate and the environment. During this term of office, it is 25 billion. Emil Källström has tried to paint it as that everything would be after the term of office, but that is not true. The appropriations for the expenditure area General environmental and nature protection increase by 73 per cent compared to when the Center Party was in government. We have already seen major investments in protection and measures for valuable nature, and we are spending more money on the popular climate action programmes and the urban environment agreements to meet the many applications that have come in from all parts of the country and to switch to a sustainable society. Sometimes it sounds like the Center Party also prioritises these issues, but behind the green-painted facade it feels like there is a pretty rotten timber. For example, the Centre Party's debate article on the budget today lacked complete wording on the environment and climate. Last year, the Center Party proposed to reduce public spending on environmental and nature conservation by 1.9 billion, or rather 24%. It is therefore after the Center Party has made its own investments in the same area. It is also easy to believe that the expenditure area of Areella industries, rural areas and food is an area where the Center Party wants to invest. There are great opportunities now that you no longer need to compromise with the other bourgeois parties but can present your own proposals. But no, neither does the Center Party want to bet. Instead, they want to cut EUR 100 million per year from forestry efforts, and the allocation for the entire expenditure area is reduced compared to the government's proposal. The Centre Party, on the other hand, wants to reintroduce a reduced social security contribution for young people in a situation where youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. The Center Party also prioritises a number of other tax reductions. Is that really how the Center Party intends to meet the climate and environmental challenges?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-319	Madam President, I would like I referred, Janine Alm Ericson, to the press conference that a number of government representatives had and when they beat their chests and said that they made a historic effort. The efforts that the government itself chose to market are 75% within the next term of office, at least I hope that today's government will not remain in office. Janine Alm Ericson can soon take any spending area – in almost all areas of government budget spending, the Green Party is investing more than the Center Party, which is simply because the Green Party has no barriers to increasing taxes on jobs, entrepreneurship and everything else in order to get a little more money to invest in government grants and grants in the short term. There is a very big difference between the Center Party and the Green Party. The first thing that is important for us is not to increase taxes unnecessarily for ordinary people and ordinary entrepreneurs who are just trying to work, invest and develop their businesses. Then you also get a little less money to spend. The second thing that is important to us is to ensure that what you do really gives results. In the meantime, the Green Party has increased its efforts on everything and nothing has changed Sweden's downward curve in terms of emissions to an increasing one. I would much rather spend less money and lower emissions than, as the Green Party, allow these spending areas to be much more expensive while the results are not. An environmental policy cannot, of course, be successful if it costs much more without it leading to any results. That can't be the point.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-322	Madam President, I would like I hear that Emil Källström does not really have any good explanations that the Center Party constantly prioritises environmental and climate issues in its budgets. I simply think that they have made it their idea to criticise the government's efforts without making their own proposals. It is unfortunate at a time when we need high and clear voices for a better environmental and climate policy with broader cooperation in order to achieve the objectives that we have jointly set ourselves. I'm giving the Center Party's Emil Källström a chance to answer the question. Will the huge effort to reduce employers' contributions for young people remain in your draft budget, or can we expect more offensive proposals for environmental and climate improvements?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-324	Madam President, I would like Will we lower the tax rate for those who create jobs for young and newcomers and for small entrepreneurs who make their first job? Yes, absolutely! We have presented this in the last year to all those who have wanted to listen. It has also been relatively appreciated. It feels like this line shift has highlighted very well what differences there are between the Green Party and the Center Party. If you want an expensive policy that leads to a change in emissions reduction to an increase in emissions, you can continue to vote for the Green Party. If you want to return to a policy that costs as little as possible but at the same time produces results in terms of emission reductions and continues to work with basic incentives, such as green tax exchange and other things that work, then you do well to vote for the Center Party.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-326	Madam President, I would like You could also say this: If you want to return to large government budget deficits, large and growing economic gaps and ineffective and very costly measures, you can vote for the Center Party. But that is not what I was going to talk about here, Madam President. In retail trade, health care and hotels and restaurants part-time employment is more common than full-time employment. These are sectors where women usually work. At the top is retail trade, where as many as 69 per cent are employed part-time. These are also sectors where very many people are forced to work in fixed-term contracts. In Västernorrland, from which Emil Källström himself comes, every third worker has a part-time job. In Västerbotten there are more than that. The most common reason for working part-time is that there are simply no full-time jobs. This also affects wages. Emil Källström also knows that. Women in retail and hotels and restaurants have an actual average income of less than SEK 16 000 per month. Entry wages in these sectors are as low as SEK 13 100 to SEK 14 600. It is these wages that the Center Party and the other bourgeois parties have painted as far too high. The Center Party has repeatedly demanded lower entry wages. The top-notation is made up of the Labour Market spokesperson of the Center Party, who has demanded a 20 to 25 per cent reduction in entry wages. That would mean that we are down on wages of 10 000 kroner or less. You have called for the introduction of a state wage policy unless the social partners reduce entry wages in these sectors. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Emil Källström: How low should it be? How low should there be actual entry wages in these sectors before you are satisfied? It seems like $1,100 is too high.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-332	Madam President, I would like I think that Ulla Andersson is dealing with a number of interesting and difficult challenges which we, as a whole, must try to do something about. There are people who work part-time, often women and often in exactly the industries mentioned by Ulla Andersson. We have a problem there, because it is in many cases future pensioners who will receive very low pensions. It's not often a female trap. These are basically issues that have bearing on very many different things, and it is very difficult to find a real solution. But then you have to sort. What is the alternative for these people? We are talking about the need for entry jobs and new ways into the labour market. It is important to get that foot in, so that you can start making a salary career and so on. Yes, the alternative today is to go to supply aid of 6 000 – 7 000 kroner a month. Even if you were to land on the salary that Ulla Andersson refers to, it is thus a doubling of the money you have to move with month by month. My most important message will always be to pursue a policy that creates as many jobs as possible, as many ways into the labour market and into society as possible. Then we have to work to look at our own house. The same problems that exist in the trade exist in healthcare and care, not infrequently with municipal politicians as principals. First of all, let us do something there, about what we ourselves can influence directly. We can ensure in our municipalities, in Gävle as well as in Örnsköldsvik, that full-time services are offered to a much greater extent in the municipal operations. We can do that very quickly.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-336	Madam President, I would like Yes, full-time positions in Gävle have been the norm since the early 2000s. But perhaps it was because the Left Party had the councillor's post there. We have proposed a statutory right to full-time services. The Center Party has rejected that. We are also strengthening the possibilities for part-time stamping in this budget. I take Emil Källström as saying that the Center Party will support it in its budget option. Emil Källström talks about interesting and difficult challenges. I would like to say that the women who have to work for wages like this are really having a hard time. To support yourself and perhaps one child or two children and live on 13 100 kroner is an art in itself. But I also interpret Emil Källström as saying that he thinks that wages of 13 100 are not a major problem but that one could go down to levels at which the support is based, i.e. 6 000 – 7 000 SEK. Is that your answer, Emil Källström? I am really worried about what we have to expect if the Center Party is going to decide in the future.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-339	Madam President, I would like I find it a little sad that Ulla Andersson is so obviously deliberately trying to misunderstand me when it comes to such very difficult but important issues, where there are no obvious simple solutions. Is it the solution to this problem to just try to legislate it out? I don't think so. I am quite convinced that this would mean that overall there would be fewer jobs in the Swedish economy and that even more people would be excluded. I'm not prepared to contribute to that. It wouldn't work. What I am concerned about is that we see new groups – thousands, hundreds of thousands of people – who year after year find themselves in support with a few thousand grand a month without the possibility of entering the labour market, starting a wage career or getting contexts and colleagues. That's the biggest problem. I spoke about division throughout my speech. We must face up to this in every way, but it cannot be banned.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-342	Madam President, I would like I think it is well known that countries that have invested in low wages do not have a higher employment rate than Sweden has – quite the opposite. Nor do they have more people at the disposal of the labour market – quite the opposite. I would also like to point out that, on p. 834 in the bill on the Public Procurement Act, everyone who is interested can read and see that what Oscar Sjöstedt said in the previous line-up is not at all in line with the truth. S. 834, that is. Madam President, I would like This budget implements the largest investment in health care, education and care and in the welfare sector since the introduction of the current state grant system in the early 1990s. I'm proud of that. It also feels good to know that the reforms we have pushed through will make a difference for single parents, for the sick and for part-time workers – people who have had to stand back during the bourgeois reign years. Now it's finally their turn. Hiring more people in care for the elderly is crucial for Grandma to get the care she needs and for the staff to have the time they need to do their job. In order for women to feel safe when they are about to give birth, childbirth needs more resources. Children in preschool and school need the best conditions to develop in the best possible way. Therefore, group and class sizes would need to be reduced. That is why the permanent addition of 10 billion a year, the so-called welfare billions, which the Left Party pushed through in the budget negotiations with the government is so much needed and long awaited. Today, not all healthcare professionals have access to work clothes – even though they work in a highly contagious sector and despite the fact that this is a perfectly reasonable requirement. But now it will be reviewed what causes women not to have access to work clothes to the extent that is actually needed. That review is important and central. This is also an important feminist issue, and that is why the Left Party has highlighted it in the negotiations with the government. Madam President, I would like Economic equality is central to the economic development of a country but also to the development of society as a whole. Children's health is adversely affected by major economic gaps, as are their school outcomes. People's security is being undermined. Creativity and gender equality in society are also adversely affected. Equality reforms are feminist reforms because women are in the majority of low-income earners and men are in the majority of high-income earners. Being born to a woman has been an economic price of about 3 1⁄2 million SEK during a lifetime. We want to correct that, because it is completely unreasonable. The Left Party wants an economic policy that is good for everyone, not just for the richest. Welfare and economic equality are the main entrances to the budget negotiations with the government. This is also evident in the impact. Free medicines for children, free mammography, eyeglass allowances, free outpatient medical visits for 85-plusers, increased housing allowances for pensioners and money for women's shelters are reforms we have previously received. This budget takes new steps. In retail trade, hotels and restaurants, as well as in health and long-term care, part-time employment is now more common than full-time employment. This is why the possibilities for part-time stamping are now being improved. Nearly 40% of single parents live in financial vulnerability. A large majority of them are women. In 20 years the maintenance support was increased by SEK 100 onor. During the reign of the bourgeoisie, not a single crown was allocated. In their world, economic vulnerability is self-chosen. Last autumn, however, maintenance support was raised by SEK 300 on the initiative of the Left Party, and now it is increased by another SEK 150 onions for those with children aged between 15 and 18. The income limit of the housing allowance is also increased. It's been standing still for almost 20 years, which is a shame in itself. Among the erbarn supplement is increased by 1 500 SEK onor per year for the third child. So the kids can get those sneakers they so badly need and maybe even a new winter jacket when the old one is both too small and washed out. Maybe that's how Mom can make that dental appointment that's never been done. That is how the economic conditions for a great many improve. Being long-term sick is hell in itself. Moreover, living in financial vulnerability is not worthy of a welfare society. The guarantee level in the sickness and activity benefit is now increased by SEK 187 per month. Before that it lay still for about 13 years. The housing allowance is also increased. Now 200 000 people are getting better financial conditions. We are well aware that more needs to be done for this group, but now steps are being taken. Driving licences have become a class question. At the same time, a large number of jobs require driving licences. By enabling loans via CSN for driving licences, we improve the opportunities for many people to get a job and thereby contribute to the construction of society and support themselves. Broadband expansion will be added to 850 million over the next few years so that the gap between town and country is narrowed and the opportunities for working and running businesses in rural areas are strengthened. I think it was TT that the other day described the budget as a budget with Robin Hood elements. That made me happy. And we know that this would not have been the case without the Left Party at the negotiating table. We have achieved reforms that lift low-income earners and allow high-income earners to contribute a little more in the future. However, in order to take a holistic approach to economic equality, fiscal policy needs to be used. Now part one of a bank tax is introduced. The limits of government income tax are listed at a lower rate, which means that more will be covered by it. This is necessary if we want to finance welfare and increase economic equality. No one will get increased taxes without also getting increased wages. Even so, the tax cents on the right side of the roof go, for what if someone who receives a raise of up to $35,000 a month would have to pay 72 dollars a month more in tax than it does that earns 38,000 a month a year? Oh, my God, what a misery that would be! It is also becoming increasingly clear that the Right does not intend to fund the needs of welfare. In fact, according to the Institute of Economic Development, it takes 140 billion to 2040 to finance these needs, i.e. as much as the citizens reduced the tax by. Yet the bourgeoisie is screaming right now. But perhaps it is precisely because it is those with the highest income who will be able to contribute a little more in the future, and not those who are sick and unemployed. Then they would have sat still in the boat. Of course, we in the Left Party believe that taxes should have been increased for the richest in this budget. A new model with a progressive wealth tax that in Switzerland and Spain, as the Left Party has proposed, would have been a good way to take a holistic approach to increasing economic equality and financing welfare. But unfortunately, we haven't got the government on it. In fact, Sweden is today the only industrial country that does not have either wealth, inheritance and gift tax or property tax linked to the value of the property. It doesn't make sense. In addition, we have an incredibly low corporate tax. So there are those who can contribute significantly more than today. After eight years of bourgeois rule, the tax system is rigged for the richest. It needs to change. There is still a lot of work to do to get the government loose. But I think there are many of us around Sweden who expect us to have a fairer tax system. Now, Madam President, the search for tax evasion is intensifying. They should be hunted feverishly because they pose a threat to this country. Tax refugees can be said to be in real exclusion, and if there is anyone whose access to welfare should be called into question, it is they. Money that would have gone to cancer care, medical care, and children's schooling, they hide away. They undermine the morals of society and the tax system and thus the Swedish model. Now both the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority are being given more money for an intense pursuit of tax evasion, because they really need to be integrated into society. Through the reforms that we have achieved in this budget, we have clearly shown that we want an economic policy that is good for everyone, not just the richest. The reforms that we have achieved mean a great deal to those affected: single parents who get better finances, older people who get the money to go to the dentist. With this budget, many who have been subject to derogations for a long time or have been left to better economic conditions. This budget does not give priority to the richest, but to all of us, especially women, and it is necessary. A budget with Robin Hood elements still feels pretty good, even if it could have been better.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-365	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson beats her chest for Robin Hood. At the same time, the Left Party is contributing to the fact that it is currently being pulled down on the LSS operations around our country. Liberals clearly say: We are investing an LSS billion to ensure that there is no hunt for people in need of LSS – people who really need the ultimate help of society. The Left Party has today announced very clearly that it will say no to the Liberals' proposal for an LSS billion. I find that very unfortunate. Ulla Andersson talks a lot about dependency and also says no to Liberals' proposal to lower entry wages so that young and newcomers can enter the labour market. The Left Party has also said no, and says no in the municipalities, to the proposal put forward by the Liberals that people with income support, social security benefits, who have the capacity to work, should perform a counter-benefit in order to receive social assistance. That proposal has been put forward on the basis that not all people can live on subsidies but that all people can contribute something. Another starting point is that we have a social contract based on all people doing their utmost to support themselves and that all people have their own responsibility to support themselves fully. The Left Party says no to this in this House and in municipalities around the country when such proposals come up. For me, it's very hard to understand. A party that has its roots in some form of communist ideology, but also in some form of labour movement, has such contempt for the value of labour: to be seen and to feel every day that you are useful and part of a context. Why does the Left Party refuse to demand compensation for social security benefits?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-369	Madam President, I would like First of all, I want to say that the Liberals should have all the honor. You are one of the few parties on the right that actually readily admit that you want to increase income inequality in this country. After all, all the bourgeois parties have a policy of doing so, but at least you openly acknowledge it. I think that is worth paying attention. Yes, we say no to reduced entry wages. We say yes to the Swedish model – that it is the social partners who should set wages. It has been a successful model, and we think it should continue to apply in the future. I find it very worrying that we have as low actual entry wages in hotels and restaurants as SEK 13 100. I think it is deeply problematic and a major concern in the labour market, and it is above all women who receive such low wages. I have heard nothing from the Liberals about what you intend to do about it, but rather the opposite: you want to lower them even further. Yes, we say 'yes' to reducing income inequality, but yes, we say 'no' to dissuade people who are going on subsistence support or living in financial vulnerability. We say yes to all people who want and can work. That is why we think that we should invest so much more in people in the form of education and labour market policies, so that people can feel a financial security and thus contribute to the construction of society based on their very best. That is why we say yes to many investments that create more jobs. We simply believe that this is a better way than to suspect people living in poverty.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-372	Madam President, I would like I am very proud to belong to a party that so clearly takes a stand for those who have the worst in our society and who are in most need of help from society, namely those who today need help under LSS legislation. When Ulla Andersson now says no to the LSS billion Liberals' proposal, it becomes a little strange when she is also not prepared to secure tax revenue for our common cake by having high expectations of people being able to support themselves. I see dependency as the biggest problem in our society. Our party does not want to reduce wages. We want to create opportunities for young people and newcomers to enter the labour market, and it is better to have a job with a little lower entry salary than to be dependent on benefits and do nothing during the day. Seven out of ten newcomers would be better off with our policy than they are today, and this is in stark contrast to the subsidy policy that Ulla Andersson represents.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-374	Madam President, I would like I think that Mats Persson can personify the words that it is split to be liberal. On the one hand, he says no, we do not want to reduce wages, on the other hand he says yes, we want to reduce wages, because that is necessary. I didn't really get that to go together. But I would like to say that the LSS is a very important law on rights, and it should be protected. I am very clear about that, and the Left Party will fight for that. I have not even seen any tax billions from the Liberals in the proposal. However, Madam President, I can tell Mats Persson that we do not intend in any way to undermine public finances in the way that the Liberals have done in previous government periods. We want sound public finances, and that is an important way of securing rights legislation and other reforms. That's why I'm going to be very clear about it. However, we believe that rights legislation should be protected and improved.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-377	Madam President, I would like In fact, I did the same reflection as Mats Persson during Ulla Andersson's speech: There were many words about the Left Party's efforts in the budget but not much about the LSS and why the Left Party supports a draft budget that continues the deterioration of the LSS initiated by the government. I don't think the answers were very clear at the end of the line with Mats Persson, so I would like to hear a clarification. But hold on now: Some of the things Ulla Andersson mentions are commendable! It is always wise to review the living conditions of families with children and older people in economically difficult situations. We all know how it can affect not only things that Ulla Andersson pointed out but also relationships. It has social consequences when you have to turn every penny around. But the problem is that the Left Party in its practical policy is also consistently opposed to jobs and businesses – the jobs that reduce gaps and create the resources that the common needs. In any given situation, the Left Party wants to make it more expensive to work. Then it becomes more difficult to get into the labour market for the outsider, and for those who are thinking of training as midwife or specialist nurse, the signal is clear: Don't bother, because then we'll raise your tax so that you don't even get half of the wage increase you've been working for! Both relative and absolute it becomes more expensive to work. If the Left got what they wanted, the job tax deductions would be gone, too, if I understood correctly. Outsiders would increase sharply. Tax revenues would be reduced. In the end, with your policy, there would only be cuts left to distribute. Reforms will be impossible, and then we know who is affected, namely the most vulnerable. My question is: how is it that the Left Party, which sometimes calls itself a workers' party, never ever makes a single proposal that makes it more profitable to work?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-383	Madam President, I would like The Left Party intends to use all tax revenue effectively. That is why we removed the subsidies for employers' contributions for young people, which cost EUR 16 billion a year without anyone knowing whether they even created a job. We think it is more important to ensure that nurses, for example, receive better salaries and working conditions. That is why, among other things, we have ensured that there is 10 billion to the welfare sector. We think that this is a good way to use tax revenue. Jakob Forssmed often points out that it would be problematic if some people had to pay some ten more in taxes, but I think these people actually think it can be quite reasonable. They also have children in preschool. They also have a grandmother who needs better care for the elderly, and they may even need medical care. They see how the employees in these sectors are tearing and dragging and, in fact, do not have good wages and working conditions. This is what we are trying to correct. That is also why, instead of under-financing budgets, as you have systematically done during your time in government, we are actually trying to make sure that we fine-tune the reforms we want to see. That's the kind of thing you have the taxes for. Then we think it is reasonable that those who earn the best also contribute more than they do today, for they have received enormous tax relief during your time. As a left-wing party, I do not think it is reasonable to pay different taxes for equal income. I don't want to punish people for having had the bad luck of getting sick or out of work. But now we are in this tax system, and then we are trying to do what we can, for example, to propose a progressive wealth tax or that people with high incomes should contribute more than they do today. Instead, we can spend the money we receive on our common welfare or on lifting groups that you have left behind, Jakob Forssmed.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for the answer, which I thought was quite clear! It was not so much about jobs, but it was just that if you get what you want, the tax on jobs should be increased. Then the job tax deductions will be removed, and this will lead to an increase in exclusion and, in the long term, we will have less resources to cope with welfare. If we don't make it through the jobs, we won't make it through welfare in the future. But left-wing politics is always dependent on strong correction. Of course, they are not strong enough in this government, as taxes on jobs and businesses are now rising by over 40 billion, of which 75% on jobs. Only the economic wind and previous alliance reforms that are not abolished sustain this. If we are to achieve cohesion and jobs, we cannot pursue this left-wing policy. Then it takes strong correction. If you decide, there will eventually be only cuts left.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-390	Madam President, I would like Jakob Forssmed is concerned about the cohesion of society. Then I assume that he will not cooperate with the Moderates, who will do all they can to increase the economic divides, or with the Liberals and the Center Party, who will gladly lower entry wages and so on. It is also quite telling that Jakob Forssmed says that we are not talking about jobs. For me, those who work in elderly care, health care, preschool or school are extremely central to the community we want to build. They're doing an extremely important job. I think they deserve both better wages and better working conditions. We are also increasing investment in infrastructure and railway maintenance. We're doing the biggest housing investment in 20 years. That is what the Christian Democrats reject. These are proposals that really give more jobs and build this country stronger for the future. I think that is important and good investment, and that is what Sweden needs more of.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-393	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small, open economy. We are a country that is very dependent on what is happening in our world, in the United States, in Europe and in China. This also means that our economy is very dependent on how other countries are doing and on how the economy is developing in countries in our neighbourhood. Then it is particularly important to keep order in your finances and to keep taxpayers' money. In this situation, where we are now entering a boom, Magdalena Andersson chooses to invest in unfunded grant increases. This means that Sweden is poorly equipped for the day when it starts to blow on the international markets. This means that Sweden has fewer opportunities to protect the core of welfare – school, care and care – when we have the next crisis and the next major financial crisis. Madam President, I would like A new unemployment is emerging. Unemployment today is almost completely dominated by those who have never entered the labour market. Long-term dependency on grants is emerging – in many municipalities, unfortunately, a long-term passive dependency on grants. Looking at the statistics, you can see that only one in three people with low education has a job today. This applies regardless of whether you were born in Aleppo or in Arboga. If you have a low level of education, it is very difficult to establish yourself on the Swedish labour market. The labour market is simply not adapted to those with low qualifications or those who have not yet finished school. This problem becomes particularly clear in the light of the large immigration Sweden has had and the fact that many new arrivals have very low education. At this point, the government's employment policy is alarming. It should almost be described as a fiasco. Of Stefan Lövven's election promise of 32,000 trainee jobs, it was 200. Of the promise of 25 000 additional posts, the ambition is now a tenth. On point after point, area by area, the government lowers its ambitions for its employment policy. You have to say that you do not achieve the goals you have set yourself. Even the government itself does not believe in its goal of Europe's lowest unemployment. This is no wonder. The employer who is out there – whether it is a company, a municipality or a county council – wants real jobs. You don't want Magdalena Andersson's designed finder's job. You want to be able to hire people with skills here and now and be able to do so at the right cost – a reasonable cost that corresponds to the qualifications of a job seeker. Madam President, I would like Here the great conflict in Swedish politics becomes clear. The government continues its employment policy and its constructed jobs. Against this is the attitude of the Liberals, that we need more simple, real jobs, and that it needs to happen by us politicians taking a step forward to create more ways in for newcomers and young people. We have proposed starting jobs from the Liberals, with lower entry wages and lower costs for the employer who hires young people under 23 and new arrivals during the first years in Sweden. This need is due to the fact that for a long time in Sweden, consciously or unconsciously, we have removed the simple jobs. Those who have a short education today find it very difficult to enter the labour market. It is not least clear if you look at the public sector. Nurses have been replaced by nurses, and nurses have been replaced by preschool teachers. This means that the way into health care and the way into preschool for those who want to work there is getting longer and harder. It is a political responsibility to ensure that we have more simple jobs. That is why we in the Liberals have proposed more healthcare providers in the healthcare sector and in the care sector. Madam President, I would like Society should have high expectations of self-sufficiency. This may involve looking for a job outside the municipality where you live. This may be a question of the municipality wanting a compensation in order to receive supply support. High expectations are basically about the social contract and its view of it. We need to focus on both rights and obligations. All people have a responsibility to do their utmost to support themselves. Not all people can live on subsidies, but everyone can contribute something. Not least at a time of great immigration, it is very important to point out the social contract. Society and the state's efforts are characterised by high expectations of people. Society will provide help to those who need it through faster and easier ways in. But you also have your own responsibility and an obligation to do your utmost to find a job, learn the language and get into Swedish society. Against this policy stands a government that refuses to see the reality as it is. It is a government that focuses on the new arrivals and then only on the new arrivals with high education, those who usually get jobs anyway, but completely ignore those who have low education and who have very difficult to establish themselves. You can look at those who were newly arrived in Sweden in 2007. Among those with low education there were only four out of ten who seven years after they came to Sweden had a job. These are alarming figures showing that we need to do something here and now if we are to break the alienation and dependency that is emerging. Madam President, I would like Integration is also about justice and security. What is on TV every night from Rosengård or other vulnerable suburbs – it is car fires and unrest, and people living in these areas feel a great deal of insecurity – is not acceptable in our society. We now have a situation where we have fewer police officers per 1 000 inhabitants than we had in 2010, and the government has today put on the table a proposal that represents a very small investment in more police officers. It's very alarming. This means that people do not feel secure. This means that there is a feeling in streets and squares that society is not there, that society is not there and that society cannot guarantee security in people's everyday environment. This weakens the social contract. This weakens trust in society. This makes Sweden weaker. Madam President, I would like It's also about school. Nothing is more important for Sweden's future than that all children can leave school with good results and that the school of knowledge is once again placed in focus. Then it becomes very problematic for a country if you are the country where truancy and mess are most common. When the OECD makes measurements of mess and late arrivals in European countries, Sweden is the country that stands out. It's not working. No one learns anything in school unless there is order in school. Nobody learns anything if we don't have better teachers and if the best students don't choose to become teachers. Therefore, higher teacher salaries are, of course, an important priority for the Liberals. But we can also note that there are huge differences in our country, that municipalities choose to invest different amounts of money in school. The difference is actually so great that the municipality in Sweden that spends the most per pupil adds twice as much as the municipality that adds the least. That is totally unacceptable. This means that the next natural step is that we get a government headship that can ensure that my future does not depend on which school I have attended. My future can then be ensured by the fact that all people have the same conditions in life. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country for the hard-working. Sweden should be a country where it pays to educate and take responsibility at work. Sweden should be a country where entrepreneurship and diligence are encouraged. That is not the case today. For broad academic professions, education does not pay off at all, which is totally unreasonable. In this situation, Magdalena Andersson, despite the fact that it is going forward with unfunded grant increases, chooses to turn 150 000 Swedes into high income recipients who are not even allowed to retain half of the last earned hundred. It is midwives, police officers and engineers who are now becoming high-income earners in Social Democratically governed Sweden. Is this fair, Magdalena Andersson? Why are you sending the bill to ordinary people for your unfunded grant increases? Madam President, I would like Integration is one of the most important issues of our time. It is about how we break benefit dependency and how we make sure that all people in our country feel involved and that everyone feels that tomorrow is getting better, that they have the opportunity to enter our society, the labour market, the housing market and in communities. That is what creates cohesion in our society. When the government pushes integration policy forward, the Liberals choose a different path. Let's go for the jobs. Let's go to school. Let's go for security. And we do it because we are convinced that this is the way we build Sweden stronger, and that is how we get a more liberal Sweden.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-411	Madam President, I would like The Government's draft budget takes clear steps to strengthen gender equality, for Sweden finally has a feminist government. Reforms in this budget reduce the economic disparities between women and men. A gender equality authority shall be established. And a national strategy with measures to combat men's violence against women should be presented. Liberals have historically had a strong commitment to gender equality. It is good that there are several of us who are pushing for the creation of an equal society. I am pleased to note that the Liberals also want an equality authority, for example. But unfortunately, it seems to stop there. Liberals do not seem to want politics otherwise to try to influence unequal structures in society. The government recently presented a proposal to increase gender equality on the boards of stock exchange companies. Both the current government and the previous government, which included the Liberals, have said that if the market cannot solve the structural problems itself, the solution will be legislation to achieve equality. Now we see that the market does not solve it. It is therefore a good thing that the government is now presenting the proposal on quotas on company boards. But the Liberals seem content to note that the market itself is good at solving the structural problems of inequality, even though the figures show that there is still a long way to go. It is just one example of the Liberals not wanting to recognise underlying structural problems as obstacles to gender equality. I would like to ask Mats Persson how the Liberals will work for better equality in general and in the boardrooms in particular. It is something that must nevertheless be expected of a party that calls itself feminist.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-415	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. That is a very important question. How do we create a society where everyone, both men and women, has the same conditions in life? It is one of the most important starting points and most important issues of liberalism. An important part of this is to ensure that we have a school that provides equal opportunities and that we work on all fronts to break discrimination and the structures that are all too often reminded. But it's just like you say. There are many of us who have wanted stock exchange companies and others to show that they are taking this issue seriously. The latest statistics show that it is approaching 40%, what the government wants to achieve. It is then very close to achieving equal boards in stock exchange companies. In this state of affairs as a government, I see as very much of a symbolic act. What the government could do instead is focus on other major gender issues that we have in our society. I am thinking of the repression of honour, problems of honour and violence, which, unfortunately, is growing stronger in our society, not least linked to the increase in immigration to Sweden. It is very important that society is clear and clear that such values are not accepted and that the organisations and authorities involved in the issue of honor receive sufficient support to work with them. Yesterday, the Liberals presented a major initiative in this area, precisely because we want to raise this problem. The issue of equality is for me to see that there is an injustice between men and women. It exists at many levels in our society. But it is also a question of choosing solutions and proposals that lead to results. The proposal on stock exchange companies is symbolic. We are already on the case. Why not focus on what is a bigger problem today? The problem of honour is one such part. There's our focus.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-419	Madam President, I would like We have heard a lot of strange things from the Liberals lately, where the strangest thing is that the values seem to have changed and you suddenly want to invite the Swedish Democrats – this from a party that has previously been clear in its criticism and where such cooperation has been considered unthinkable. This is an alarming development. At the same time, the social liberal parts of the party seem to fade away. It is difficult to see the social liberal side in the recent budgets of the Liberals, or the People's Party at the time. There are small investments in welfare but, on the other hand, clear bourgeois tax cuts. I therefore wonder, and certainly many with me, what is actually the distribution policy of the Liberals. Do you want a society where everyone has the potential to grow and develop, just as you write on their own website, or do you want to continue with unfunded tax cuts that make it difficult to invest in welfare?
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-422	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that a representative of the Green Party – who is sitting in the government that is currently cutting down on LSS legislation, which means that children do not get the help they need – accuses me of not representing welfare policy. We proposed in our budget an extra LSS billion to ensure that children and young people who are currently receiving less help are helped. It is for me to stand up for welfare policy, but Janine Alm Ericson and her party voted against it. The big challenge in our society today is that we have a growing dependency on subsidies, where the difference is between having a job and not having a job. We want to solve this by ensuring that those who are outside today can get in, because it is better to come in with a little lower entry salary than to live on benefits and be idle. Seven out of ten will be better off with our proposals than they are today. For me, this is about social liberal politics. It is about making things better for those who are in the most difficult situation.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-426	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's great hidden access, trust, must be nurtured. It can't be taken for granted. Why is this an important theme in a budget debate? Well, because trust is perhaps the most important lubricant we have in the economy, even more important than tax levels and regulatory burdens. But now there are signs that a distrust is growing stronger, a distrust of the other, of each other, fomented by those who want to polarize, drift apart, spread myths and disinformation. We shall never accept that; we must fight that with force. We also need to see that mistrust becomes more acute when gaps grow, when people feel that life chances are deteriorating for some despite the fact that Sweden as a whole is doing well. Housing shortages and the absence of equal care are pressing, the police are going through what is increasingly clear is a crisis with vulnerable suburbs where residents are hit by criminal gangs day after day, the job thresholds are too high, almost insurmountable, while the economy as a whole is doing well. Misbelief becomes easier when social mobility is not really there, when children can grow up and never see their parents go to work and when refugee children are kept separate from their parents. The lack of faith in the future, the lack of trust, threatens the cohesion of our society. Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, this is not a law of nature. There are solutions. There are safeguards against mistrust, but it is not only mistrust that can spread as well. Sociologist Brian Palmer noted a few years ago at a seminar that I attended that courage is contagious in the same way as fear. And I want to believe that this also applies to trust in our society. But then we must not give up. Then we must also see the m in the shadow of the economic sun. Then we must protect the communities in which trust can grow, in relationships, in the family, in associations and in civil society. However, in order to build this trust, we must also be able to make the necessary reforms for equal care for all and to break and unlock the labour market that is increasingly closed to ever larger groups. Mr President, I would like to When you read the budget bill, you have to ask yourself if the government has given up a little bit, given up on jobs, given up on the police, given up on care, given up on public finances – as well as released it mentally. How else can you be as satisfied as you are, while the job thresholds in the Swedish building have grown higher, the water pressure in the welfare taps is dropping a little bit and the cold is spreading? The government does not have the answer to the job challenge, and we see that an increasing proportion of the unemployed are in a vulnerable position in the labour market. They do not get a chance to come in and feel the pride it means to support themselves and become part of the working community that is so wonderful, to feel needed, requested, to be in the buzz around the coffee machine and talk about how bad the coffee tastes. It took years before the government even wanted to take the words simple jobs into its mouth. Now the question of the concept has been turned, but it is as oaky plot as before in the reform factory. Unfortunately, with regard to the increasing division of labour markets, the government is empty, tired and without credibility. And the goal of Europe's lowest unemployment disappears as a mirage in the distance. What does it do to trust? The government should turn on all possible job cranes, make an impression, if not by us, from the IMF and the Financial Policy Council, and do something about the problems of high thresholds in, high entry wages and high demands that knock out jobs and shut out people with lower qualifications. We need a continued RUT extension. We need introductions without hassle, stamps and approval by the authorities – a simple form of employment. We need a simplified labour market policy with fewer but better measures. We need reduced taxes on labour, not altitude. And the good opportunity to make long-term reforms, when the wheels spin, I do not really think the government is taking. This means years lost for Sweden when it comes to necessary reforms. However, the government also dismantles existing job reforms, which betrays the most vulnerable. Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance accuses another party of having a flexible attitude towards his election promises. This could possibly also be said of the Social Democrats who went to elections that no ordinary wage earners would receive increased income tax, but with this budget more ordinary wage earners will have to pay half or more of the last hundred. Further wage earners pay government income tax, including many police officers, midwives, teachers and engineers. Then the Left Party is out ralliing that what you call bourgeois is upset that someone has to pay a hundred more a month in taxes. This is not really what it is about, it is about what signals we send out to those who train, want to take that executive job in the care of the elderly or want to pass on to the specialist nurse. What do we say to them when they retain half or less of any increase in income? Now it becomes something a little less profitable. And if you're older, don't try too hard to stay in the labour market or change your career, because then we'll bring you the special payroll tax that makes it more expensive for employers to hire an older person than before. This is another example of a bad policy for jobs: over 40 billion in increased taxes in a couple of years, most of it in jobs and businesses. I also think that the government's priorities can be discussed to extend the public commitment with new authorities, cost-driven reforms such as free admissions or free medicines to executive children as well. At the same time, taxes are being increased in such a way that many experts, consultation bodies and economists question whether the money is coming in and, if so, to what extent – while at the same time we are increasingly concerned about whether the public is up to its basic tasks. What does it do to trust? In the midst of the boom in Sweden, confidence in the Swedish economy, including in households' own economies, is declining, according to the barometer developed by KI. It risks, of course, having repercussions also in the real economy. We now need substantial reforms for jobs, for accessible and equal care, for a better staffing situation in care, for freedom of choice and dignity in care for the elderly, and we need substantial resource support and better control by the police. Security shouldn't be a luxury, because if it is, what does it do with trust? Mr President, I would like to Last week I visited Flir, one of the largest employers in northern Stockholm, the world leader in thermal cameras. I asked if they had any specific message for us politicians to take with us. I'll admit that I thought they had some question about taxes, regulations or the like, and I'm sure they have – many entrepreneurs in Sweden today. However, we received a clear message: we are concerned about how attitudes towards immigrants have changed and how we talk negatively about immigration. For companies like ours, which work 99 percent on exports, the influences that come in this way are absolutely necessary, for polarisation and the hardened climate also have a nutritional price. Mr President, I would like to We need a society that stays together, not one that is hammered together with the coercion of the state. It is not that more trust can be commanded, but it grows. But it grows when authorities treat everyone equally and the welfare is there the day I need it. Now I will actually commend something that the government does in the budget bill. I welcome the measures taken against tax evasion. Further efforts are being made on this. I believe that this is very important in order to help strengthen trust in the equal treatment of all. But it is also clear that even with this type of action and a comprehensive regulatory framework, many laws and governance documents, what is right must also be written in our hearts, if the expression is allowed. Trust is established when we feel love and are seen and respected in union with others. This is true in civil society communities, in family and in circle of friends. That is why the family and civil society should be supported and not steered and put in place. If trust is a society's great hidden asset to the economy too, there is reason for the government to consider how this asset is managed. They make withdrawals and then call the people's experience of the state of the country surreal. Unfortunately, I think that the budget represents a lost year. I'm afraid trust is damaged by current policies.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-451	Mr President, I would like to I thought it might be a good time for the Christian Democrats now that they are in the majority here in the Chamber to extend the budget debate a little. I am pleased that the Christian Democrats' Jakob Forssmed brings up the harsher climate of debate. I hope that this means that the Christian Democrats will now also tone down their harsh tone in refugee policy, which has unfortunately been present for some time. I am also pleased that Jakob Forssmed is raising the issue of trust in society. This is something that is very important in the whole community. I also assume that the Christian Democrats will support the 10 billion to care, school and care, which is a very important tool for building trust. I also assume that they support the efforts to increase maintenance support, improve part-time stamping and improve the economy for those who are ill. It feels good that there is broad support for these reforms. I was going to start with some factual information about this with wages. The average salary for a police officer is SEK 27 600 and the median salary is SEK 25 000. I think the concern that the police would make is a little exaggerated. Of course, there are some of the police officers who will get a salary increase and come up to $35,000 a month. In that case, I believe they will be able to cope with 20 kroner more in tax. Of course, I thought I'd come over to the taxes. The job tax deduction is a reform that the Christian Democrats and the previous government have really highlighted as the most important job reform of all. It is also a reform that is not well funded, if you say so. According to the previous government's own figures, it was self-financed only 30%. Then I simply wonder about the effectiveness of the Christian Democrats' employment policy.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-459	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of questions at once. First of all, I would like to thank Ulla Andersson for extending this fine moment that I have in this House. We Christian Democrats are very keen on resources for welfare. We believe that the best way to create resources for welfare is a workable and good job policy. Unfortunately, the Left Party's policy is not aimed at job policy but at allocating resources that come from a well-functioning job policy. I listened to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson in Agenda last Sunday. Then she was asked: Will there be more state subsidies than the 10 billion to the municipalities? Her answer was then: it must be remembered that it is absolutely crucial how jobs develop, what employment looks like in the local government sector and how tax power develops. We have seen that during the time of the Alliance, resources for health care, school and care were strengthened in the municipalities. We will continue to fight for that to be the case. We have nothing against spending more money on the budgets too. But we have a barrier to raising taxes as much as possible. Ulla Andersson says we don't have to worry about any cop making so much money. Maybe it's cops that work on, are they gonna take that extra overtime session? Are they going to work that weekend? Are they going out on the streets? Then maybe it's a question. Should they pay over 50% of the extra income in tax? Ulla Andersson thinks that is reasonable. In any case, I think it is reasonable to discuss whether this is the way we should go in Sweden. If Sweden is now to compete with highly qualified jobs, we must be careful with the education premium. It should pay to further train and to take the important jobs in the example of elderly care as managers. That's a question to ask.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-465	Mr President, I would like to The managers of elderly care are financed with tax revenue, and so are the police. That is why it is very important that we do not pursue a unilateral tax-merger policy. During your time in power, resources per capita fell to health care, school and care. It was a historical trend break. We also got fewer employees per capita in welfare and large budget deficits. So to my question about well-functioning employment policy, which Jakob Forssmed is happy to talk about. The job tax deduction is the great job policy of the bourgeois government. If it is only 30% self-financed, you must surely say that it is an inefficient job policy. It was therefore 70% of the funds that did not go to what they were intended for. I have not heard Jakob Forssmed comment on this at all. It's still your own numbers. The bourgeois government was very good at inefficient politics and a policy that increases economic divides.
i-ef06d3ded8b1dc95-468	Mr President, I would like to I understand that's a slightly odd idea for the Left Party. We think it's good when people get to keep a little more of what they earn from their work. That is why we think that job tax deductions are good. People get to keep a little more of the salary they work together at their job. It also has positive job effects. This allows more people to go from exclusion to work. This is shown by the evaluation of the job tax credit. Ulla Andersson himself stands in the Chamber year after year and presents budgets that include job tax deductions. They contain this hateful thing that Ulla Andersson says is only boring Swedish society. Ulla Andersson knows that abolishing this would also make jobs worse, and tens of thousands more would be excluded. To be a little accurate, the resources for school, health care and care increased by more than 100 billion in fixed prices during the Alliance's time in power. We hope that they will be able to do so again in due course.
