i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-3	Mr President, I would like to This technology thing is fun. It is always exciting to follow technological developments. It's new stuff you can use and things that make life easier. In fact, technology development does not only mean gadgets, but both quickly and slowly affects the society around it. Not least, computers' intg and microchip's intg have meant major changes in society. Of course, more speed was achieved with the Internet revolution. This means that new professions will be added. And old professions disappear because they no longer serve any purpose. Who would have thought the Post Office could disappear? It's actually a result of the internet. We all remember how strange it was when we stood in line for a long time just to get the joy of paying our bills. It's a thing of the past. Social development is moving forward. But that also means other consequences. One of the consequences is that we people in Sweden are increasingly choosing to withdraw cash. The ATM was a fantastic technical device. Today, ATMs are increasingly disappearing precisely because they do not play a major role. We don't use cash. That too has consequences. It has consequences for people who are less honest, people who want to commit crimes. Fewer cash means less opportunities for crime exchange in the traditional way. It's no big idea to try to find a safe and blow it up, because as a rule there's nothing in it. Crime also adapts to technological developments. And crime is adjusting very quickly right now. In recent years we have seen an explosive development. In order to get a crime exchange, one goes to some extent from the traditional crime and seeks more into the digital world. The crimes are also being committed on the Internet. This is also news for us as consumers. We're ill-equipped. We're mentally ill-equipped. We've learned how to lock the door to the apartment. But many times, as consumers, we are very bad at locking ourselves up precisely when it comes to the digital world. It's about access to our accounts, access to our images and the ability to map our behaviors. Sometimes you can also use blackmail. That development is exploding now. Today we are debating a letter from the Government on an audit report from the Swedish National Audit Office. I think that the Swedish National Audit Office has written a very good report on the IT-related crime. Only three areas have been concentrated. It's about cyber fraud. This applies to so-called child pornography or abuse of children on the Internet. And it's about attacks on the infrastructure. The result is distressing. The resolution of the crime is about half compared to other crimes – and already there the resolution of the crime is far too low. It is also the case that the figures in the report are already out of date. That is an increase in the number of notifications by 800%, with a number of dark ones that we have no idea about. The report is written in 2015. This has probably already passed over 1 000 % today. I don't think that's a wrong guess. How well equipped is the justice system for this? Yes, the results of the report are distressing. There is a place that has succeeded and which receives praise. This is the department that works against child abuse on the Internet, so-called child pornography. Otherwise, the grade is worse than the fail. That means we have to do something. This is the major challenge in terms of law enforcement in the coming years, and it is something that we need to have a comprehensive strategy for. What are the conclusions? Yes, the Swedish National Audit has conclusions on several points. Change of way of working is needed. They're wrong. It's going too slow. It's too slow. There are no national guidelines or methods, that is, no one has taken a holistic approach. Competence is generally low. There has already been an announcement, following the initiative of the Alliance, to look at the competence of the judiciary. It is urgent, because this is a matter of constant criticism of the whole chain of justice, from the police to the prosecutor. Courts are not mentioned in this report. But I do not think it is a daring guess that even the courts need more competence in this area. This applies from how the police handle a report of a crime to the whole process thereafter. There is a lack of specialisation. So there are few specialised units. You're not good at collaboration. The conditions for a new police organization are better, but there are obviously still mental obstacles. International cooperation has everything else to wish for. Of course, this is not just a matter for Sweden. We are not the only ones who are bad at this. But this must increase if we are to be able to curb this crime. The work is ineffective. It's not uniform. This is, of course, alarming. A number of recommendations are made to the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office. If more authorities had been examined, more recommendations would probably have been made. It is about being able to identify what development needs there are. It's about looking at staff supply. It is a matter of ensuring that basic education is updated so that it is a little more modern in terms of technological development. It is about ensuring that national ways of working come about, that they are anchored and that they are used. It is about looking at structures and looking at how to improve international collaboration. It is the same criticism and the same recommendations to the Prosecutor's Office. Had I been in a government, I would have been very worried when I saw this. Now that I am in opposition, I am concerned that we have a government that does not seem to be at all concerned about this development. The government's conclusion and action in this regard is that it is following the work. The government is considering asking for a detailed account of how the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations are handled if necessary. It seems, Mr President, that the government has not read the report at all. If you do not understand the need after reading the report, there is cause for concern. The government thinks it's shown enough action. This is over. Obviously, the road has come to its end. There's nothing more to be done. If necessary, consider whether this is a problem. As I said, this concerns me. We in the Alliance have been thinking about how we should exercise in this regard, in a follow-up motion. It's been important. We have looked at different types of point programmes. Of course, each of these measures may be requested, but our conclusion is that it is clear that if we are to succeed, we must have a coherent strategy and a whole in this work. It is rather urgent, and we should do this now. What's strange is that this isn't an announcement. Normally, the Riksdag should give a clear order to the government. It won't be like that. This is not how the Social Democrats feel – they do not think there is a need for a comprehensive strategy. This is not the opinion of the Green Party. This is not what the Left Party thinks. And this is not what the Swedish Democrats think. The Swedish democrats are in the arms of the government and think that this is enough. They don't think we need to do anything. This surprises me, not least in view of the debate that we had a few weeks ago, where the Swedish Democrats tried to demonstrate their ability to act. But when it comes to really curbing crime, it is not even reporting to the list of speakers in an important and topical debate. Mr President, I would like to I support the Alliance's proposal in the report of the Committee on Justice.
i-SJjvGhpvxhkrANih2zqJ6z	Mr President, I would like to As said, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed whether the Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority are prepared to effectively and effectively handle and investigate cyber-related crimes. The review period covers the period 2006 – 2014 and covers three categories of offences: cyber-fraud, internet-related child pornography offences and crimes involving attacks on infrastructure. Cyber-related crime has increased sharply during the review period and continues to increase. Person-uppklaringen for the IT-re latched crimes was as low as 7 per cent in 2014. This is a type of crime that requires both a changed way of working and an increased knowledge. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office also makes recommendations to the relevant authorities. It is good and relevant views and recommendations that we see that the authorities are taking on board and have started to work on a broad front. The Government closely monitors the authorities' work in this area and has initiated a dialogue on the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. Since the review was carried out and the Social Democratic Government took over in 2014, a lot has actually happened. Although the former moderate-led government, as the reserveers write in its reservation, began to work against crime on the Internet, the report, conclusions and recommendations are actually based on the time when the Alliance was in power. Since then, the Police Authority has been reorganised, and the Agency has expanded its capacity substantially to build a national cybercrime unit. There have also been resource reinforcements at the National Fraud Centre in the police. The Head of the National Police is very well aware of the need for more knowledge and sees cybercrime as a priority part of the police's work. Work is also under way to develop methodological support and a uniform way of working and to increase both general competence and specialisation in the field. With the establishment of the National Cybercrime Centre at the National Operations Department, NOA, in October 2015 The general level of knowledge must be raised within the police, says the authority. Work is under way to develop e-learning training. It can also serve as a reference work for those police officers who do not come into contact with this crime on a regular basis. The IT perspective will enter all education and will improve the police's ability to handle the cybercrime aspect in all criminal investigations. The Cybercrime Centre is responsible for developing national guidelines and methods for combating cybercrime. The National Cybercrime Centre is also an international contact point for cybercrime across borders and cybercrimes, which was one of the improvement points pointed out by the National Audit Office. The Centre is a collaboration partner and national contact point for other authorities regarding critical infrastructure and complex cybercrime. This involves, for example, collaboration with Säpo and MSB. The Centre shall also be responsible for the proceedings of the police against, for example, child pornography. As I said, the construction started in 2015 and will be done gradually until 2017. The Centre must have a total of 90 employees when it is finished. Both the Government and the Police Authority are therefore well aware of the speed at which these crimes are increasing and that strong action is needed both to increase the number of solved cybercrimes and to stop the growing number of crimes. Mr President, I would like to The report also includes the Prosecution Authority. In the 2016 business plan, the agency also points out that efforts will be made to develop the fight against cybercrime. This involves, among other things, developing in-depth training on cybercrime in order to provide deeper knowledge regarding the investigation of more complex crimes. Activities and follow-up targets set out as specific measures to develop the capacity to deal with cybercrime, to continue developing cooperation within the IT Prosecutors Network, to increase cooperation with the police and to organise seminars for the prosecutors of the Network. The fastest growing form of cybercrime is fraud. Action will be needed, and this requires broad cooperation between more ministries but also strong preventive measures from banks and payment services, for example. Although the Swedish National Audit Office has not made any recommendations to the Government, and this may not be surprising since these tasks lie with the authorities, it is important that our authorities receive the tools they need to deal with and prosecute the cybercrimes. Here, too, we in Parliament have a responsibility. Examples mentioned in the report are id-jackings, threats, violations, harassment, grooming and hacking. Nor has it been long since, Mr President, that we here in Parliament, on the basis of a government proposal, closed the gap in the legislation by using another's identity as a criminal act, i.e. an identity hijacking. In the recent partial report on trafficking in human beings, the purchase of child sexual acts has been investigated, which often starts with an online contact. In the investigation Privacy and criminal protection, cyber-stalking as well as hate campaigns, threats and vomiting online have been investigated. These investigations are reviewed and will be prepared in the usual order at the Ministry of Justice. After that, they will be subject to our consideration in Parliament, hopefully in the near future. There is also ongoing work within the Ministry of Justice on an cybersecurity and cybersecurity strategy that focuses on protection against cyber attacks. Mr President, I would like to There can never be too much, but there is quite a lot of work going on. The fact that, at the same time, as the reserveers want, we should start work on developing a comprehensive strategy against cybercrime is, in our view, to put resources on the wrong things. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office is good, and we can also see that things are happening in this area. There is therefore now no reason to approve the motion and the reservation. That is why, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-38	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that Parliament must be involved in taking responsibility. This was a great opportunity to do so, just as the Riksdag has taken responsibility earlier in this parliamentary term by taking the initiative for announcements that mean that the government has had to set up the investigations that Helene Petersson mentions. It is more difficult to see any initiatives on the part of the government itself. The initiative has come from the Riksdag and could have continued today. Unfortunately, it does not, but we will not give up. I am a little concerned, because Helene Petersson's conclusion is that there is no reason at the moment to have a comprehensive strategy, we are the answer in the majority's conclusion in the text, and at the same time she says that it would be to spend resources on the wrong things. My question to Helene Petersson is: Why have you not seen the need for a comprehensive strategy? Since you say that you do not currently see the need for such a thing, it means that you leave the gap open because you may see a need later. When do you think you'll see this need?
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-42	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we are saying that today we see no need for a comprehensive strategy is, of course, because we cannot tell about the future and how this will develop. What we see is that the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Prosecution Authority and also the Government are working on the basis of the recommendations that the Swedish National Audit Office has made. You can see for yourself that a job needs to be put on it. You can see that there is a need for increased knowledge. It can be seen that there is a need for increased training, both by the new ones who work in the authorities and those who come in. This is part of the training that police officers receive and on. The authorities have indeed taken on board the recommendations. They're having a dialogue. The government doesn't sit with its arms crossed and do nothing. Of course there is dialogue. The chief of police has also seen that there is work to be done. There's a need. There are so many other strategies. Sometimes there is a greater need, and sometimes there is a smaller one. When we see that work is rolling in the direction we want, as I also think Krister Hammarbergh wants, there is no reason why the Government Office today should spend resources on developing a strategy. It takes a lot of power.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-46	Mr President, I would like to We have different views of reality. Let's see how that kind of crime explodes. The problem now exists. It is not possible to refer to previous governments. If there is no greater ambition than to refrain from making proposals because previous governments have not solved the problems that existed a few years ago, there is little ambition. We note what is stated in the Government's letter. The Government is considering remedying the problems that have been pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office if necessary. You haven't even seen the need. The measures that are taking place now in the authorities, and where Helene Petersson primarily mentions the Police Authority, are actually the result of the reorganisation of the Police Authority. This is not about long-term strategic work. You've woken up. Yes, there are more cops today who can it. It has been a development of cyberforensics for a long time. But it's going too slow. That is why I am once again concerned that the government parties do not see the problem and say that they do not want to see the future and obviously do not see the problem today. If you have considered the problem – there is a difference in what Helene Petersson says in the speaker's chair compared to what the report says – I wonder if Helene Petersson has wondered whether there is a need for a change of legislation to make the work more efficient. Can Helene Petersson mention any measure in the legislation that she sees as necessary? Would it also waste resources?
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-49	Mr President, I would like to It's a little laughable when Krister Hammarbergh says we haven't seen the need. It goes without saying that the government, the parliament and the authorities have seen the need. If something is to happen now, surely a strategy is not a tool. Then it is important to ensure that tools come to the authorities now. With regard to what Parliament or the Government can do with regard to legislation, I do not wish to pre-empt the referral of the two investigations. Both the human trafficking investigation and the investigation on privacy and security pick up issues of threats, violations and harassment, and they advocate changes in legislation so that what the police and prosecutors do can lead to judgment. It is a major concern that crime is increasing but that it is impossible to judge. 7 per cent received a judgment in 2014. It's scary. I agree that something has to happen. We are not satisfied with the measures that the Police Authority, the Prosecution Authority and the Government are working with and grasping. We will certainly follow the question. Nor do I think it ends with those questions coming into the sea. I do not believe that a strategy is the most effective means of tackling the problem.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-54	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. The fact that we live in an IT society is clear. We've been doing that for a long time. It is therefore positive that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out this review and submitted a report on the work on cybercrime during the period 2006-2014. For me, who have been relatively new to the work in the areas of justice, it was with surprise that I noted when we in the committee went around Sweden's new police district during the spring that now the police had finally got smart phones. Yeah, that's great. But personally, I would have appreciated it if it had happened five six years ago. When I read the material, I had some thoughts. There's a lot that would have happened five or six years ago. Clearly, the previous government may not have been completely toe-toe. Otherwise, we would not have had to speed up the way that has happened now. It's important that something happens now. We will not bury ourselves in what has happened or has not happened before. I do not quite understand the motion that has been raised even if it has a positive side, namely that it clearly shows that we are in broad agreement on the importance of tackling cybercrime. I don't think anyone in this room is against that. It's good that it's happening. As regards the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, I believe that it is characterised by what I appreciate. A few months ago we had a debate in this House where I repeated repeatedly that things should not go so fast. I mean, in particular, in legal areas, so that the issues are well anchored and worked out in order to have the effect we want. I noted in my moderate colleague's speech that he quoted the government's response, but he left out a sentence that I thought was the most important, namely that the government has entered into a dialogue with the authorities on the recommendations that the National Audit Office has made to the authorities. The important thing is to look at what the audit looks like and how the authorities respond. The conclusion of this dialogue will lead to action. What have the authorities themselves done? What else does the government have to push on? It may well be a strategy in the future, but it is probably too early to speak on it today. The important thing is that the government is in favour of the National Audit Office's report, that it takes the issues seriously, that it recognises that we are living in an IT-based reality with cybercrime and that we must therefore move forward. But it is also important to look at what is already going on and what needs to be done. We should not necessarily fence with paper swords and say that there must be a strategy. Then we must first examine what the strategy should be about. The principled and positive aspect of this debate is that we do not disagree on the substance. Rather, the question is how to move forward and to tackle the problem seriously. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-62	Mr President, I would like to That sounds a bit like the echo of a previous debate we had. I and Mats Pertoft agree that we should be careful with regard to legislation. But I still have not understood the need to be slow. Mats Pertoft addresses some of the police's problems on the IT page. The police have had huge problems. We're seeing an upside now. Of course, one can be critical of the fact that the alliance government did not solve the problems that exist today, but was concerned with solving the problems that existed at the time. But I think that is a rather weak reason why the current government is not solving the problems that exist now. The police aren't there when it comes to cyber-attacks. It has been similar to the problems of the Swedish Armed Forces and, for example, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. I am still rather concerned that the ambitions are not greater. Or is it perhaps the way that you, Mats Pertoft, have a little more ambition than your partner who was in the speaker's chair earlier? Then it was put in some way that the best way to solve problems is not to have a strategy. Is that your opinion, too, or do you have greater ambitions?
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-65	Mr President, I would like to I can't help but philosophising around problems. Five years ago, I thought smart phones were a must in my work. I think it would have been good for cops, too. But that's not what it's all about now. I, Helene Petersson and the Red-Green Government fully agree that these issues should be taken very seriously. The question is whether it is a matter of having a strategy today or rather of carefully looking at how the various authorities are working on these issues today based on the report from the Swedish National Audit Office that actually closed the review in 2014. It has happened a little bit since then, and then you have to look at: What is the situation now? Are further measures needed? Then the government will deal with this. I am convinced of this, because it is a priority for the government to make the authorities effective.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-68	Mr President, I would like to The government therefore writes that it has entered into a dialogue with the authorities and is considering requesting, if necessary, more detailed accounting. It is not certain that you even think you need to have this account. This is the letter that the Government has sent to Parliament. These are low ambitions. I'm worried about that. This makes me convinced that we in Parliament must continue to work on these problems and ensure that we create a majority so that we create announcements and thus get investigations started, as has happened in the past. We find it difficult to find any government initiatives of our own in this area. Mr President, I would like to We can see that today the majority have stated two things about online crime: it is a matter of being slow, and it is a question of not having a strategy so that problems can be solved. I think we can have more ambition. However, as it is almost time for voting and the House is beginning to gather, I would like to end the line by thanking my opponent but also the President and wishing everyone a pleasant summer.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-72	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with Krister Hammarbergh's wish to all Members and to the President for a pleasant summer. It's gonna be wonderful. I can agree with Krister Hammarbergh in a lot, but I would like to replace it slowly and carefully. That is precisely what is at issue here, if necessary. If there is no need to make changes – something has happened in relation to the Swedish National Audit Office's review since 2014 and since the Red Green Government took office – it is not necessarily the case that you have to do everything. One example of what has happened is the new law that will soon enter into force on the criminalisation of, for example, identity hijackings. Things happen. The government takes these issues seriously. And it's happening now. That didn't happen last term of office. Clearly, the Swedish National Audit Office's report is taken seriously. It's important. If it were not to be taken seriously, it would be very regrettable. To this end, this will be further examined in cooperation with the relevant authorities and the problems addressed.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-79	Ladies and gentlemen! The previous Parliamentary Session has been full of interpellations, motions, debates, votes and committee work, and that is how it should be. It's your mission. I see as my most important mission as Speaker of the Parliament to work towards better conditions for getting your political message out. Rules of debate and other things governing the work of this House should enable you to put forward your policy and allow your ideas to meet in debate. What is happening here should also be interesting and easy to see for the people outside the Chamber. That is why we are constantly working to develop the working methods of the Riksdag. As you noticed a week ago, we tested completely new rules of debate for the party leader debate. Now all parties got to speak already in the first round and was able to present their politics before the replica shifts took off. You will remember what it was like in the past with the current debates. They were not very topical when they were held. There was an incredible amount of time between the request for the debate and the fact that it was actually held. Now it's completely different beats. Now is a short time between the request for the current debate and its implementation. However, there have been many topical debates this Parliamentary Session, and I will therefore follow up with the group leaders on the form of debate. Another kind of time saving that I myself am very happy about is our voting procedure. Since we removed the part with raising, we have saved an incredible amount of time at the votes. I'm very happy about it myself. After all, I was a Member for 20 years before I became President, and over the 20 years I never had any idea why we were raising any objections at all. It is very good to see that there are even fewer misvotes now that we do not have an appeal procedure. We have also managed to shorten the response times when it comes to interpellations. You know that for many years there have been criticisms of delayed interpellation responses. We are now working on scheduling and forward planning together with the Government Office. It has produced positive results. The trend is moving in the right direction. I believe that both ministers and Members recognise that this is good for all parties, but I can also say that some ministers have greater potential for improvement than others. However, not all changes and improvements are about saving time. Some are also about us spending more time. The Prime Minister's Question Time has been extended to one hour. We have done this in order to increase the time for exchanges of views between you Members, and, of course, mainly the opposition, and the Prime Minister. The usual Question Time may be extended if necessary, as has been the case recently. Now you're asking the questions from the interpellation benches. I think it's very good. This means that those who debate are standing side by side here. It is no longer the Government that stands alone here, while the Members are far up in the row of benches. We have changed Question Time to achieve two important things: to put the honourable Member's ability to put questions more at the centre and to allow more Members to ask questions. It has produced a direct result. A considerable number of Members now have the opportunity to ask questions at Question Time. We can therefore see that interest in Question Time has increased. In addition, in recent times anyone who wants to ask a question has had to do so. I am personally convinced that all these changes contribute to giving more elasticity and relevance to the Riksdag as a political arena. At least that's what's meant to be. Summer is approaching, and we will be regrouped in the Chamber this autumn. However, some of us in this House today have completed their parliamentary missions, and I would now like to address you in particular. I would like to thank you for your efforts in the service of democracy and the parliament. First I turn to Per Bill. Per Bill has been a Member of Parliament for 7,634 days – almost 21 years. It's a long time with missions in central positions. Per Bill has a solid political record in the Riksdag; it covers, among other things, the Finance and Education Committees and assignments as the first Vice-Chairman of the Enterprise Committee, Vice-Chairman of the Constitutional Committee and Chairman of the Culture Committee. As the record suggests, Per Bill has profiled himself in many different areas, where he has both driven important political issues and profiled himself. Constitutional and cultural issues, but also business issues, are important to Per Bill. Per is appreciated for his kindness and generosity, but also for his talent in terms of the ability to have a broad overall perspective. He has taken a wide-ranging approach to business issues in particular. But it is not only there – I have heard, for example, that Per as the newly appointed chairman of the Culture Committee was asked what is Sweden's biggest cultural policy scene. Per Bill then replied: the dining table. I think it is an exciting way of looking at cultural issues, and that shows Per's breadth. He is also very good at food and drink. This has made Per Bill a columnist, for example in the magazine Life's Good. I must say, it sounds very nice to be an expert on the good of life! Today he is County Governor of Gävleborg County. I would like to thank you for your efforts as a Member of Parliament, Per Bill, and wish you continued good luck in your assignment as County Governor.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-93	Veronica Palm has with her 13 years in parliament not quite as many parliamentary years as Per Bill, but she still has a long and heavy record. Veronica Palm has been active in this House, in committees, in party politics and not least on social media. Her last parliamentary assignment was as Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, and before that Veronica Palm has been chairman of the Civil Committee, Vice-Chairman of the Tax Committee, Vice-Chairman of the Social Security Committee and member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Veronica's work here in Parliament has shown a wide range. The breadth of Veronica Palm's parliamentary work is also reflected in her interpellation debates. Her interpellations have covered as diverse areas as oppressive gender roles and reformed planning processes for increased housing construction. If anything shows it in political terms! Veronica Palm has always – and I know that because I have been in the same committee as Veronica for many years – pushed the perspective of children's rights hard, regardless of whether it was a foreign, housing or migration policy. It is part of her ideologically based commitment to vulnerable people. Equality and equality are other issues where she is driven and profiled. Your commitment, your knowledge and your experience are appreciated, Veronica. I also know that you are a genuine peoples' movement and party man. I believe what Veronica said when she left the parliamentary mission: leaving Parliament does not mean leaving politics and commitment. Good luck in future assignments, Veronica, and thank you for your efforts here in Parliament!
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-98	The talk of commitment naturally leads me to Lena Ek's environmental and climate commitment. Lena Ek has run environmental issues as Vice-Chairman of the Environment and Agriculture Committee, as Minister for the Environment and as a Member of the European Parliament. Lena Ek has been the spokesperson of her party on economic policy issues, and she has been a member of the Finance Committee. She has been the spokesperson of her party on environmental and climate issues. Lena Ek is an intelligent and humorous person who takes on her assignments with energy and knowledge. She has worked in both national and international politics. I would like to share an anecdote I have been told, because I think it reflects Lena Ek well. When Lena went to the climate meeting in Durban as newly appointed Minister for the Environment, she had problems, because there were countries that did not want to sign the final document – including the USA and Canada. The Swedish Minister for the Environment, with his very good international network of contacts, then wanted direct contact with the EU Commissioner and with these countries' chief negotiators. Of course, her officials said, no, no, you can't do that! But we who know Lena Ek know that she completely ignored it. Instead, she used her commitment and personal contacts to talk with all these key people personally. The result was also a unanimous final document. I believe that Lena Ek's environmental commitment is also reflected in her hobbies. She's happy to be out in the woods and nature. The common thread, or rather the green thread, in jobs, missions and interests seems clear to me – not least given that she is today chairman of the Southern Forest owners. You have resigned from the Riksdag, Lena, and you leave many political tracks behind. A slightly more unusual track you have left with the Akademiska Föreningen i Lund. There is a collection of casts of particularly deserving people's noses, and one of these noses is Lena Eks. Many thanks for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament, Lena!
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-106	Anders Ahlgren is unfortunately unable to attend today, but I would still like to draw your attention to his work in the Swedish Parliament. At home in Dalarna, Anders had been a committed entrepreneur and politician when he eventually became a Member of Parliament in 2012. Anders is described as a helpful, careful and persistent person who has both time for others and really drives his heart issues. These are excellent qualities for a person who works with business and development issues. Regional issues and the conditions for small businesses are at the heart of Anders. He has worked with regional growth and the municipalities' economic conditions and conditions. Anders cares about rural development and the conditions for entrepreneurship. He does so outside the Riksdag. Now he has left the Member's office but is working on business issues in other ways. Thank you for your time in Parliament, Anders!
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-111	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I would also like to thank those of you who will be back this autumn. Thank you for your efforts during this Parliamentary Session! I would also like to thank the Vice-Presidents, the group leaders and the members of the parliamentary board for their very good cooperation. Of course, a thank you also goes to the Director of Parliament and the administration for a very good job. I wish you all a nice and sunny summer.
i-a854eff9aa56f4f6-114	Mr President, I would like to I have the nice task of having the last word. Of course, on behalf of all Members, I would like to add my voice to all the thanks expressed by the President. However, I would like to add to these thanks by thanking the President of the House for what he has done over the past year and wish him and his family a pleasant summer. I'll see you back at the barricades in August of September.
