i-963b7099e4580f86-10	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me when I believe that a new investigator will be appointed and when the commission will be reported at the latest. Jens Holm has also asked me whether it is my assessment that area-based forest protection targets are important for achieving the environmental quality objective of Living forests and whether I intend to take further measures for the protection of forests and other valuable land. I would like to begin by saying that a fundamental part of forestry policy is equal environmental and production objectives, the sectoral responsibility of forestry and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. As far as new investigators are concerned, the Government Office prepares the matter as a matter of urgency, and our ambition is to meet the deadlines for the completion of the investigation. The Government believes that more natural forests should be protected and that environmental considerations in the used forest should increase. The former government has decided on a milestone for the protection of land, freshwater and marine areas in 2014. Among other things, the intermediate objective is to increase the formal protection of forest land by about 150 000 hectares of forest land and to increase the voluntary provision of forestry by around 200 000 hectares and to ensure ecological links in the landscape through a green infrastructure. The target contributes to Sweden reaching the national and international biodiversity targets by 2020. The government has made the biggest ever investment in protection and management of valuable nature with approximately SEK 3.5 billion during its term of office. The government has commissioned Skogsstyrelsen to follow up the voluntary provisions. The voluntary provisions of forest owners are important. The Government believes that further efforts and measures are needed to achieve the environmental objective of Living Forests. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency to evaluate and revise the national strategy for the formal protection of forests in order to achieve cost-effective protection. The results of the evaluation should be used in the Government's efforts to develop new interim objectives for forest protection in order to achieve cost-effective protection. Several work is under way to strengthen environmental concerns in forestry, including the implementation of targets for good environmental considerations in practical forestry. At the same time as protection and environmental protection are to increase, the production of forest raw materials also needs to increase in the transition to a bio-based society and to phase out fossil energy. My hope is that the broad dialogues that have characterised the national forest programme, together with a review of the Forest Protection Act, will provide good conditions for continued nature conservation measures as well as for the development of a growing bioeconomy based on forests. There is a need for further action that meets all the challenges of the future. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag in 2017 regarding the national forestry programme.
i-963b7099e4580f86-17	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for the answer to my interpellation. A couple of weeks ago I saw on the rural minister's Facebook that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht wrote that a forest is fantastic. I can certainly agree with that, and I believe that I am speaking on behalf of the vast majority of the population of Sweden as a whole. Say the one in Sweden who doesn't enjoy going out with the dog in the woods, picking mushrooms, blueberries or lingonberries, going out jogging or just going out in the woods to be alone for a while. But then, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, it is important that we also talk about the great diversity of different species that exist in the forest – different trees, mosses, animals etcetera – and not just about timber fields and plantations that will only produce something for the pulp industry. I was pleased when you, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, appointed the report on the review of forestry legislation under the impression that environmental considerations in forestry policy in Sweden will increase. Investigator Charlotta Riberdahl worked since March. But this summer, with Almedalsveckan on Gotland, the Minister for Rural Affairs chose to fire the investigator. It's very surprising, I must say. Since then, in July this summer, we have no investigator on how to increase environmental concerns in forestry policy in Sweden. I find that very unfortunate. I also think it was a very strange grip from the Minister for Rural Affairs to dismiss Charlotta Riberdahl. She had attended a seminar in Almedalen and discussed the private ownership of the forest in Sweden. Here there were obviously great protests from the forest industry. But we must have a minister who resists, who stands up for the investigator he himself has appointed only a few months earlier, and does not fall short of such pressure. Very strange! A new investigator shall be appointed. There are many of us waiting for the new investigator, because this important investigation is losing momentum, speed and, above all, time. Everything should be ready by March next year. I would like to ask Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht : Can you tell us here and now when we see a new investigator for the investigation on forestry legislation in Sweden? The Minister for Rural Development addresses a number of objectives regarding increased forest protection in Sweden. It is very important to protect more forest. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht talks about getting 150 000 hectares more of formally protected forest and 200 000 hectares of so-called voluntary provisions, which the forest industry itself will set aside. I would like to ask Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht : Will these 150 000 plus 200 000 hectares be sufficient to achieve our objectives in the area of forest and biodiversity, for example with the Nagoya commitment and our national commitments? How will the protection take the form of 200 000 hectares of voluntary provisions? How will you ensure that the voluntary provisions, as the forest industry itself does, will be provisions with a high level of biodiversity in ecologically representative areas?
i-963b7099e4580f86-22	Madam President, I would like On Tuesday, we sat in this Chamber and heard Prime Minister Stefan Löfven read out the declaration of government. This year, like all previous years with the Red Green Government, the Prime Minister was clear. He said, among other things, that more natural forests should be preserved and that the ambitions for biodiversity should be increased. I think it feels good for many to hear it from the Prime Minister after the summer's strange tours on the forest issue. It is also nice to hear that the Minister for Rural Development now agrees with this and also that the Forest investigation should run according to schedule. Like Jens Holm, I look forward to the Minister presenting a new forest investigator shortly. How we protect and use our forests is a key issue for plants, animals and humans. Having access to a living forest to roam is spelled for many of us quality of life and health. It is also about the health of ecosystems, those that are so important to the survival of our planet and ours. Protecting the few natural forests we still have in the country is necessary. But it is also important, as the Minister says in his response to Jens Holm's interpellation, to strengthen environmental considerations in forestry. In Sweden, horticulture has dominated since the middle of the last century. The Government's ambition is now to increase the level of clean forestry methods. In the spring, Sveaskog, the state forest company, announced that it was planning to cut the forest adjacent to Tiveden National Park. It was something that caused the municipality, entrepreneurs and residents to protest loudly. Sveaskog has now backed up and announced that it will instead use more gentle logging methods. This is good, but we need a shift so that it becomes a norm to conduct a natural, clean forestry instead of an exception in our Swedish forests. In that, only a few percent are used with those methods. Germany is one step ahead of us in development. It has abandoned the spruce plantations in many places and has legislation that prohibits the large kerbs as well as an FSC certification that completely prohibits the practice of horticulture. The forests around Lübeck have been managed by ecosystem-based forestry for 25 years. They have developed a method so that they can both cut trees and keep the forest. I was there last spring studying it. The forests were carefully culled, and trees were cut when they reached the target diameter. You are very careful to leave trees that are especially important for animal and plant life in the forest. This has made it possible to boast of having 180 nesting pairs of midspeckers. It is a woodpecker that is almost extinct in Sweden. The visit to Lübeck gave many thoughts on how we in Sweden should be able to switch to another forestry and get to more mix of tree species in our forests. It is about letting the trees that thrive on the site grow and avoiding costly measures such as soil preparation, planting and grubbing-up. In short, it is important to combine living natural forests with forestry.
i-963b7099e4580f86-30	Madam President, I would like Let me first state that the task of the Forest Protection Act, and it is a lawyer who will be in charge of it, is a legal review of the Forest Protection Act. It is not a question of provoking or questioning property rights. Firstly, it is about who or who should be responsible for fulfilling obligations under the Forest Protection Act. Secondly, it is necessary to identify the need to clarify provisions on the taking over of decisions under the Forest Protection Act in connection with the UN Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters linked to the Åhus Convention. Thirdly, the task is to decide whether a provision should be included in the Forest Protection Act which penalises incorrect information. We're working fast to set up a new investigator. I cannot say in this House what day we can do it, but that job is in full swing. Then to the question of forest diversity. The forest has a huge diversity and has meant a great deal to the country for a very long time, not least as a job creator in Swedish countryside but also as a welfare builder. Welfare Sweden has been very dependent on the fact that we have had forestry in the country. But it also has enormous social values, and it also creates biodiversity. This government spends a historically large amount of money on preserving diversity. 3.5 billion is invested in the protection and management of valuable natural forests. It's the biggest bet ever. We have 40 million for research on sustainable forestry, which is currently being carried out. We implement Comet, complementary working methods for the protection of valuable forests, throughout the country. The authorities are revising the national strategy for the formal protection of forests. We produce statistics on voluntary provisions. The Swedish Forest Board works together with stakeholders and the forest sector with targets for a good environmental consideration. We make investments in clean forestry. We provide support to strengthen the environmental values of forests within the rural development programme and through national support. The Swedish Forest Agency is developing a new monitoring model for nature considerations in forestry. The Swedish Forest Agency works to ensure the quality of information about natural and cultural values in databases. Laser scanning of all of Sweden's forest holdings is digitized on My pages. The authorities carry out a mapping and monitoring of genetic diversity of wild and domesticated plants and animals. The County Administrative Board works with the protection of urban nature. The authorities are working to create a green infrastructure. We have set up an investigation into forestry legislation in which I expect the investigation to lead to improved environmental considerations in the forest. We have set up an investigation into more effective and consistent application of ecological compensation. I would argue that this government takes on a huge responsibility in the face of the times. Will that be enough? The environmental protection committee believes that taking these protective measures will achieve the international objectives that exist. I am convinced that we must also develop it and move forward.
i-963b7099e4580f86-37	Madam President, I would like Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht began by reviewing the assignment to the investigator and what the investigation of the Forest Protection Act will lead to. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht then said that he expected the investigation to end in an improved environmental environment in forestry. It is very important that the Minister said so. I hope so, too. It is good that we at least agree on that. We also agree on what Stefan Löfven said the other day in the government declaration and what he said in previous government declarations, namely that we should protect more land in Sweden and that we should take greater environmental responsibility for the forest. We also agree that the historically significant investments in the budget are extremely important. However, it is not possible to do this on the one hand, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, and on the other hand to believe that one can give in to the pressure of the forest industry and do exactly as they say, namely fire the investigator for this absolutely central investigation. I do not think that we have yet received any clear justification from the Minister as to what the investigator actually did wrong more than to participate in a number of public seminars in Almedalen. I guess that's exactly how an investigator's supposed to work. It does not hold to be out in the media, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, telling us that it is less good with so-called area targets for the forest and that we should instead rely on new technology. That's what you said on August 31 this summer to TT. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is happy to tell you in this Chamber how to protect more forest with new technology. We are talking about area targets, that is to say the number of thousand hectares that must be protected in order to achieve our objectives simply, both national and international. Does the Minister not think that this is precisely how we protect more forest in Sweden in a credible way? The Minister has taken up the proposal from the Environmental Case Study to protect an additional 150 000 and 200 000 hectares of forest, respectively. We should remember that in Sweden there are just over 23 million hectares of productive forest land. So it is not very large areas that we are talking about here. I would like to remind you that that is why we in the Left Party reserved ourselves against this particular proposal. We simply thought it was too little. Let me return to the question I asked earlier, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. This applies to so-called voluntary provisions, not those where the state enters and guarantees that it will become a nature reserve or similar. These are 200 000 hectares of voluntary provisions. How will you, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, make sure that they are done at all? And how will you ensure that these provisions also become areas with a high biodiversity and areas that are representative from an environmental perspective? I find it interesting that the Minister mentioned that the government is now collecting statistics on voluntary provisions. This may be important, because we have a rather poor overview of this. The Minister also said that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency will evaluate the formal protection of the forest. But what about voluntary provisions? Who's evaluating them? Who checks that it is really a really good protection of the forest that we get?
i-963b7099e4580f86-44	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. You can be impressed when you hear about everything that is going on in the government, both in terms of forest protection and increased environmental considerations in forestry. When it comes to forest protection, several parties were critical of the decision taken by the previous government on how much forest needs to be set aside to achieve our goals. The Green Party also saw that it would not be enough, and if I do not remember quite wrong, the Social Democrats also had a discussion about whether this was enough. I therefore look forward to this government being able to add to this when the interim targets are reviewed so that we achieve our objectives. It is important that we get the green infrastructure – that we get corridors in the country where plants and animals can walk freely and make sure to reproduce. I would like to ask the Minister if he has any thoughts on how we can ensure that we get this green infrastructure.
i-963b7099e4580f86-47	Madam President, I would like As I said in my last post, the forest is important in many different ways. There is a diversity. Just think of the 200,000 people who have jobs out of the forest! That's 200,000 jobs, and that's 127 billion in exports. When I go to the airfield in Luleå from Karungi – it's 150 km – I often see the log cars swish past. Then I usually think: There was childcare, there was health care and there was care for the elderly. Forests have an enormous impact on Sweden's welfare, and I would say that we have managed our forests very well for a long time. Sweden was the first country in the world to adopt a forestry law, already 1903. You saw down a tree and plant at least two new ones – sometimes three and sometimes four. According to the Forest Statistical Yearbook today we have protection of 25 per cent of total area and 16 per cent of production forest. It is amazing that, although we have such protection, we can have such a great deal of employment in forestry and such a large export. I would argue that Sweden takes a very large responsibility to protect forest land. Measures are also needed to increase production. Sweden has the opportunity to become the first country on the globe that is fossil-free, and if we are to become a fossil-free country, the forest raw material is a prerequisite. We have forest raw materials that many other countries lack. We have a very large area; 70 per cent of Sweden's area is covered by forest. It is important to get the new products and get away from fossil fuel. All that you can do from a black carbon atom can also be done from a green atom. You can make biodiesel, biofuels, composites, plastics and textiles. There is a plethora of new products that can be made from our forest. We must work on this if Sweden is to become a fossil-free country. We have the opportunity if we do the right things. Just think of this Chamber. Close your eyes for a while, then open your eyes and imagine that there is no wood left! So what would it look like here? Wood has enormous significance for our constructions. We need to build a lot more forest. It is climate-smart to use more wood to build both houses and interiors. It's a carbon sink, and it's climate-smart to do that. If Jens Holm thinks that area protection is less good, I think it is good to use area protection. But I also say that we must constantly look at new technologies in forestry. There are many good examples there today. The companies invested 50 million in research on this last year. Today we have 40 million in research. You can find new methods to drive with bands on machines, you ride the roads and you scan to see where undetectable watercourses are so that the impact is less. Forests are even being burned to protect and develop the new species that require forest burning.
i-963b7099e4580f86-53	Madam President, I would like Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht said that the forest industry has a turnover of approximately SEK 100 billion in exports and employs many people. He's talking about log cars going on our roads. All of this is true. I think, however, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that it is a bit of a pity that you forget about the tourism industry in this context. It has a turnover of more than twice as much as the forest industry – SEK 275 billion according to the latest statistics. There are such things that Stina Bergström mentioned here earlier and that I did not think you addressed. How can we stimulate more gentle forestry, for example, so-called clean forestry, such as what is being done in Lübeck, Germany? In fact, I think, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that it feels like you are unilaterally focused on an old-fashioned form of management of our forests – what the forest industry is pushing for. Here I expect some improvement, quite simply. We're not as good as the minister is trying to suggest. If you compare with other countries, you can see that they are much better at protecting forests than we are in Sweden. I do not support the figures presented by Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht here, and I believe that we are very far from fulfilling both our national and our international commitments. Much more needs to be done. It was you, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, who said that this area protection thing is not always so good and that we should instead rely on new technology. That's what you said to TT at the end of August. But it is good that you and I agree that area-based targets are very important in this context. It is good that it has come to light in this debate. Then, of course, we will use new technologies, there is no question of that. I expect us to have a new investigator with solid experience on the ground as soon as possible in order to continue the incredibly important investigation into how to increase environmental concerns in forestry legislation.
i-963b7099e4580f86-58	Madam President, I would like I didn't say area protection is less good. It was Jens Holm who stood here and said that it is. I didn't say that. I have said that new methods also need to be developed. I appreciate this discussion, and it is very good that we have it to highlight the wealth we have with the forest. It is an enormous wealth that many countries lack to the extent that we have in Sweden. When it comes to the tourism industry, this government is actually investing many millions in ecotourism, which is about the tourism industry in Swedish countryside, which has a close connection to the forest. We are making a historic commitment to biodiversity and forest protection. $3.5 billion we'll bet. This is a historic effort. I also believe that we need to keep the city and the country together on these issues. It is also extremely important for the city that the forest exists, because it is involved in building up well-being throughout Sweden and also provides recreation for city dwellers who come out there. I meet many city dwellers who tell me that they have been out in the country and out in the woods, and it sparkles in their eyes. Let us now have a discussion on the forestry programme that we are working on in this government, and let us have a broad dialogue on all the values that exist in the forest. We are now going to refer the four working groups' proposals for action, and I hope for a broad consultation. I also hope that somehow, Jens Holm, we can create a common policy that provides both gold and green forests – where gold stands for jobs and growth and green forests for rich biodiversity.
i-963b7099e4580f86-64	Madam President, I would like Jenny Petersson has asked me how I intend to ensure that those currently enrolled in the employment phase do not fall between the seats when the said phase is abolished. Furthermore, I have been asked what measures I intend to take to get the people currently involved in the employment phase into work. As I said in the interpellation debate on 1 September, every person is a resource, and everyone who can work will work. A job means the opportunity for self-sufficiency, belonging, community and the power to shape one's life and future. Therefore, the government's top priority is that more people should get to work. A country with high employment rates, high participation rates and low unemployment is becoming richer, safer and more transparent. It is crucial to keep Sweden together. The Swedish economy and labour market are developing positively. Employment is growing at a good pace and demand for labour is strong. Since the government took office, the number of employed persons has increased by 120 000. More than half of the growth has occurred among women and more than half among foreign-born. At the same time, unemployment is significantly decreasing, not least among young people. Long-term unemployment is also declining after having stuck to very high levels in recent years and is among adults the lowest in the EU. The good development of the labour market is thus broad and affects several groups. Despite the good development of the labour market, the fact remains that the composition of the unemployed has changed and unemployment has become increasingly unevenly distributed among the population. Participants with low levels of education and training represent an increasing proportion of the long-term unemployed in the job and development guarantee. Active labour market policies combined with education and training are important cornerstones for strengthening and thus bringing the long-term unemployed into the labour market. Unlike the previous government, which considered it sufficient to keep people in employment without development opportunities in the former phase 3 of the Job and Development Guarantee, the government believes that the long-term unemployed should be offered real jobs or training but also be able to take part in active measures that bring them closer to the labour market. Since 1 February, the inflow of new participants into employment places has been halted and the employment places will be fully decommissioned until 31 January 2018. The new rules require the Public Employment Service to carry out a gradual phase-out of employment places over a two-year period. At the same time, the government is increasing the opportunities for those who have been unemployed for the longest time to take part in work training. People who are far removed from the labour market often need a number of complementary actions. The Government believes that work training is an important building block which, unlike employment places, requires organisers to adapt the effort to the needs of the participant in order to get closer to the labour market. Further changes from 1 February this year are the elimination of the phase breakdown of the job and development guarantee and the requirement for a specific level of activities and the possibility for all participants in the job and development guarantee to study part-time for six months alongside participation in the guarantee. The Government has also extended the possibility of studying in municipal adult education in Swedish for immigrants within the guarantee from six to twelve months. In addition, a new investment in vocational courses in the shortage professions at folk high schools for up to 24 months has been introduced.
i-7pzdrb4wyKonjdYCzH3hd6	In mid-August, an opportunity was introduced for participants in the Job and Development Guarantee to study up to one year full-time in municipal adult education at basic or upper secondary level or equivalent education within folk high school while maintaining activity support. Since August last year, only participants in previous phase 3 have had the opportunity to conduct studies in this way. Overall, government policy means several new initiatives but also that the retention of people in jobs that do not lead further ends. It is a big change that Arbetsförmedlingen can now offer initiatives based on each individual's needs and that conditions are provided for more people to get a job or start studying.
i-963b7099e4580f86-71	Madam President, I would like I put my interpellation this summer when it came to the conclusion that people who had been in the employment phase and had had a full-time employment would all of a sudden end it and had no programme or similar from the Employment Service to continue with. In Halland there were 746 people in the employment phase in April. It was precisely because people need meaningful employment that the employment phase was set up. Previously, people who had been unemployed for a very long time were hidden and forgotten. The employment phase brought people back to work, got a network of contacts and a context, and also a full-time employment rather than being hidden and forgotten. Much, I should say, was not right with the employment phase, and changes were made to it. Ylva Johansson's party and other parties from the then opposition put great pressure on these changes. According to the August figures, there are currently 18 340 people in the employment phase. What do you do with those who have left that phase? The additional services that Ylva Johansson said would replace the employment phase are currently only 1,087 in number. Few additional services have been added by the promised 20,000. What does the Minister think is the reason for this?
i-963b7099e4580f86-74	Madam President, I would like How to help those left in phase 3 is an important issue. Many have been far removed from the labour market for a very long time. Many of them have never entered the labour market. This is a very big challenge and a task that I take very seriously. There is not a simple solution. It is necessary to address people individually and to provide targeted action. We've made a big change. When phase 3 was introduced, the main point was that, when that limit was reached, no action other than an employment position would be available. That's kind of the point. Then the state would say: Now we have done what we can. Let's not do this anymore. I've changed that. We never give up on one person. All people have access to all labour market policy tools in order to be helped, on the basis of their circumstances, to move on to a job or to get closer to a job or in education and training. We will have to make more efforts than we have already done. The government will provide study start-up support, which improves the economic conditions for the low-skilled long-term unemployed to be able to study. I think this is an important step. It is an astonishingly small proportion that is participating in studies today, despite the fact that we know how important the level of education is for entering the Swedish labour market. Education is also a way to acquire fresh and new skills that are very relevant when you complete your education and then move on. Start-up support will be important. The number of additional services is increasing. I am, on the basis of the data I have, very optimistic about a strong increase in new extra posts over the coming year. And they'll be important. Work training is another important measure. Let me also ask Jenny Petersson a question. Many work integration social enterprises have done a fantastic job with those who have been placed in phase 3 with these companies. In practice, it has not been used as an employment place, but has often worked as an exercise, to strengthen people's ability to get closer to the labour market. That's very good. The Government has now put forward a proposal for the Arbetsförmedlingen to reserve contracts in procurements. It is, therefore, a public procurement that is aimed solely at this type of job-promoting company. The proposal for a new procurement law, presented by Ardalan Shekarabi, is now on Parliament's table. Will Jenny Petersson and the Moderates support the proposal to use targeted procurements in public procurement for employment-promoting companies, such as labour-integrated social enterprises? In my opinion, they play an important role today and could play an even more important role for people who are far from the labour market.
i-963b7099e4580f86-83	Madam President, I would like I will begin by answering Ylva Johansson's question. It is perhaps unusual for those listening in the Chamber to hear an answer to a question. The Moderates have strongly criticised Ardalan Shekarabis procurement proposal because it limits companies' ability. There are too many demands that we cannot support. And you can't break out parts, as Ylva Johansson knows. However, Ylva Johansson highlights an important aspect of social enterprises. In an interpellation to Ylva Johansson last week, this perspective was highlighted by Penilla Gunther (KD) and Lotta Finstorp(M). So I'm not going to spend any more time on it. But that is an important aspect. That is precisely why we saw the possibility of employment in social enterprises and participation of the participants in these companies, organisations and activities. I did not get an answer to my question as to why so few extra posts have been added, why there are no more. Twenty thousand were promised. Why is it that there have not been more? That's my question. Today there are 1,087 of them. Ylva Johansson says she's worried about this. It is good that she takes the problems seriously when it is seen that unemployment for people born abroad is increasing, that long-term unemployment is in place and that it is increasing for certain groups. Some, such as new arrivals, have not even been included in the statistics. Strong action is needed to get people into the labour market. Ylva Johansson says in her answer that Sweden is doing very well – it almost sounds like she is satisfied. But now I have heard what she says in this House as well and am not taking it further. We're in a boom. It goes without saying that the jobs will be more. It goes without saying that more people get into work when the economy goes on high. That's the way it should be. If it wasn't, I'd be very worried. I'm curious about numbers. I like numbers and statistics. Ylva Johansson knows that because we have had many debates in this House over the years. Ylva Johansson says in her reply that the number of employed persons has increased by 120 000 since the government took office. I'm glad to see that increase. The more people come to work, the better it is for the individual and for the Swedish economy. But I wonder how many have been added since the turn of the year. That's when the government's budget came into effect. Does the Minister or anyone else in the government have access to these statistics, since they say 120 000?
i-963b7099e4580f86-91	Madam President, I would like I had an interesting interpellation debate a few weeks ago with Penilla Gunther and Lotta Finstorp about precisely work integration social enterprises. I believe that many of these companies will be very disappointed if Parliament does not open up the possibility of reserved contracts and targeted procurements, as the government has proposed. They are special companies, because they do not compete in the normal way, but just have an ambition to take social responsibility into the labour market. However, they are still companies and therefore end up in situations where they are being competed out by other commercial operators – although we want to work with social enterprises. I hope that the Moderates can reconsider the matter so that we can have legislation that makes it possible. In the case of additional services, the number has increased rather slowly because of the real jobs involved. It is not a labour market policy measure in which anyone can be placed. An employer must hire. There must be room to find the right person in the right place. It is natural that it takes some time for employers and trade unions to work on the issue. I am now conducting close talks with the parties and I am pleased to tell Jenny Petersson that I am optimistic that the number of additional posts will increase significantly in the near future. And it's needed. For we also need this type of low-skilled work or low-threshold work in the labour market. Let me say something about unemployment and employment statistics. Today we have many new arrivals. You are registered at Arbetsförmedlingen from the first day. That's excellent. It should be job focus from day one. But it is quite obvious that those who have just arrived in Sweden cannot expect to get a job day one. It takes some time to get to work. Our definition of long-term unemployment is six months. The establishment period is two years. My ambition is to normally get into work or education within a two-year period. I know that this is an ambitious objective. Today we are far from it. But that's my ambition. And it would be a tremendous success if we could make it. However, many would still stand as long-term unemployed in the statistics, since they are considered to be long-term unemployed already after six months. So I think it is important to see how we measure different things. We have a good business cycle. But the government is also doing the right thing in this business cycle. It is important to see how it interacts. Every time we have presented a new forecast, we have had to improve it against the previous forecast. We have had to write down employment and unemployment. I remember it was the other way around when Anders Borg ruled. Then you often had to revise in the wrong direction. So it is moving strongly in the right direction. Municipalities are now investing in housing construction. Private companies make big investments. You believe in the future. You believe in Sweden. When it comes to housing construction, during the bourgeois period, when Stefan Attefall was Minister of Housing, 57 – I believe – various housing investigations were set up. This year we will build 57 000 new homes. Let's go to the workshop. Now we are changing the direction of politics. We're done with cutbacks. Now we're hiring more people in welfare. Now the companies are investing. Now we are investing heavily in education. This is an important part of ensuring, together with the economic cycle, that as many people as possible get into work.
i-963b7099e4580f86-99	Madam President, I would like It is important that it comes to work and that they come to more. I was just going to spend a few seconds reviewing the forecasts in the wrong direction. When the financial crisis struck, the alliance government was in government. Then they had to revise and recalculate the forecasts because the crisis was unexpected. You said you'd measure different things. I hope that you will continue to measure long-term unemployment as you have until now, so that it is not hidden or forgotten. If so, it would be troubling. What I am concerned about is that many long-term unemployed and foreign-born people are being excluded. This does not make Sweden stronger, and it makes it bigger differences in Sweden. It is worrying that this challenge is not being addressed. The numbers don't point in the right direction. Many of the long-term unemployed and born abroad want a job that involves self-sufficiency, belonging and community. Then I thought I'd bring up some extra services. Ylva Johansson said it is slow, and it is also a problem for me when I look at how the government has worked. You had eight years to prepare. You criticised reform following reform presented by the Alliance. Once you came to power, you say that things are moving very slowly. This too is worrying to me. At present, when I'm in opposition, I'm following the government. If there is a change of power, we will put forward our proposals.
i-963b7099e4580f86-104	Madam President, I would like I just want to make a correction. The figures and developments are moving in the right direction. But that doesn't mean that all the problems are solved. We still have huge challenges with the many new arrivals and with those who, for other reasons, are far from the labour market, for example because of low education. This also applies to people with disabilities who find it difficult to enter the labour market. The challenge is significant, but the figures and developments are moving in the right direction. No, I have no plans whatsoever to change the official statistics. We'll stick to that so you can follow the developments. But it is important to see the new arrivals who are in the start-up assignment. There's my ambition that you normally get into work or education within two years – that's as far as the start-up assignment goes. Since I took office, the proportion has increased, but it is still less than half. Only just over 30% will be in education or employment within two years, and there is a significant gender gap. I take this very seriously. My focus is that the new arrivals will come to work or education within a two-year period. Otherwise, I have a focus on ensuring that the long-term unemployed who are not newly arrived will get to work, training or work-related measures even faster. Progress is moving in the right direction. But I am the first to say that more needs to be done. I'm not happy.
i-963b7099e4580f86-109	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm has asked me if I am satisfied with the results and what plans I have for more people, not least foreign born with short education, to get a job and avoid living on grants. I answered a similar question from Fredrik Malm on 1 September. I would therefore like to supplement my response from the previous debate with additional measures taken by the government. The Government's objective is to seek an increase in the employment rate. The increase should mainly take place in groups with a weak link to the labour market, such as young and foreign born, and by counteracting long periods without work. The development of the Swedish economy is very strong, and the demand for labour is good. Since the government took office, 120 000 more people have a job. Employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. More than half of all new employees are women. More than half of them are born abroad. The strong economic climate provides the basis for the growth rate and for the creation of more jobs. At the same time, the government has made the right priorities at the right time by putting the construction of society ahead of further tax cuts and cuts. More than 13 000 new jobs have been created in school in two years. The government invests in educational opportunities and an active labour market policy that equips job seekers to take the many job vacancies that are now emerging. The government invests heavily in increased housing and infrastructure, which is crucial for people to be able to live and move where the jobs are. Sweden has received an active business and trade policy that lifts Swedish companies to new levels and gives more opportunities to realise their business ideas. As I said in the interpellation debate on 1 September, the government has taken several steps to ensure that more people, not least those born abroad with a short education, will get a job. I highlighted, among other things, investments in modern preparedness jobs, fast track, validation efforts, the extension of the RUT deduction and the knowledge transfer and study start-up support. In addition to these efforts, the government has also extended the target group for trainee jobs to the long-term unemployed and newcomers. Support for career introductions has also been extended to these groups. The government has extended the possibility of studying in Swedish for immigrants within the j obb- och utvecklingsförsäkringar from six to twelve months. Furthermore, the government has also initiated the so-called 100-club, which is an initiative where larger employers and companies offer jobs and internships for new arrivals. Several measures have also been taken to increase the employment rate of women born abroad. The government has abolished the custody allowance and is now reviewing how parental insurance should be designed so as not to delay the establishment of the labour market. Despite the good development of the labour market, more measures will be needed. The government intends to come back in future budget proposals with proposals for further measures for more foreign born people to get jobs.
i-963b7099e4580f86-119	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer to my interpellation, although I do of course believe that the measures announced by the government are inadequate. Let us begin by looking at what the situation is like in Sweden. There is a very large amount of immigration to Sweden, and we have had it for many years. It is basically good for our country that people come here. It is good that Sweden stands up and helps people who flee from war and oppression. When people come here to Sweden, we have to open up our labour market and include them in Sweden. We must give people a future here that is not just about getting into our country, but about people getting a fair chance to get a job and be involved in contributing. The problem is that over 40% of all people who are now enrolled in the Employment Service were born outside Europe. That's a very high percentage. At the same time, there are around 60 000 people in the establishment reform. Of these, about half are people with low or no education. In addition, there are 150 000 people in the reception system of the Finnish Immigration Service. In addition, there are many people in labour market policy measures and so on. We are talking about a very large group in Sweden. Hundreds of thousands of people are at risk of being driven into exclusion and dependency with all the consequences that it entails. Then it is a little surprising that the government's response to this enormous challenge, which is the greatest challenge facing our nation in the coming decades, is to create 5,000 preparedness jobs in the public sector. That's a good thing, but it's completely inadequate. Even at the margin, it does not help the great challenge that we have to face. In addition, Ylva Johansson – and also the Prime Minister said it in the election movement – says that it will create 32,000 trainees' seats. There have been 125 so far. Is Ylva Johansson happy with that? You promised to create 32,000 trainees, but it's only been 125. Furthermore, we from the Liberals think that the fast track is good. We are very positive about the fast track and think they are important. The problem is that they also involve fewer than 2 000 people at the moment. This means that the reform package that the government beats its chest for only marginally will remedy the situation. What we need are broad reforms that lower the thresholds into the labour market for a large group of people who today do not have educational qualifications, which means that they cannot get the jobs that exist in the labour market for many years. First of all, we need lower entry wages. This is important, but we also need to facilitate, in other ways, increased labour market participation for quite large groups. I am surprised that the government is so awkward about this. It seems that the government does not agree very much with the union either. LO is campaigning against simple jobs while the Prime Minister gives the summer speeches and tells us that easier jobs are important. The union has obviously put a stop to a great deal of this, which is worrying for our country.
i-963b7099e4580f86-128	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Fredrik Malm started with, and I welcome the positive view of human beings and the view of people as a resource. People who are granted a residence permit and have the opportunity to stay here will, of course, have a chance to become fully involved in our society with the rights and obligations that apply to all of us. An important part is, of course, both the opportunity and the obligation to support oneself. This is important for people to have a chance to get into this. I therefore share that view. In order to succeed in this, we will have to make a lot of changes, for example in the establishment mission as it is designed. We need a stronger focus on jobs from day one. We need to work on a more systematic way of working, and we need to make changes so that there can be clearer demands on the individual to also contribute to making themselves employable and participate in the various steps needed to get closer to the labour market and to enter the labour market. We are currently working on this within the Ministry of Labour. Madam President, I would like Labour market policy will never, I believe, be the solution to how we create more jobs and solve unemployment. Labour market policy is important, and it should help us to achieve better matching, to make it easier for employers to find suitable staff and for the unemployed to be equipped for the job vacancies. But that will never be the main solution to how new jobs are created. This is done in the private sector and, of course, also in the public sector. It is therefore gratifying that we are seeing such a strong growth of jobs in fact throughout the country. One of the industries that grow most is the tourism industry. It grows around Sweden. I won't say that all jobs in the hospitality industry are simple jobs, because that's not the case. But there are a lot of jobs in the tourism industry that do not have such high thresholds in or so high training requirements for you to be able to work there. Then, of course, personal qualities and other things are required to carry them out. We also see that many new jobs are emerging in the public sector. There are shortages in many professions, such as teachers. To make the teaching profession more attractive, many principals employ teaching assistants to relieve teachers and make their work situation easier. Teacher assistant may not be a simple job either, but it is a job that has lower qualification requirements and rather low thresholds in. In this way you have to look at how jobs are emerging, both those with lower demands to give a first job and those with higher demands. Both parts of the labour market are needed, and we see that this is actually happening. However, I also believe that we need to make efforts especially for those who are far from the labour market and have low levels of education. There is a distinction to be made with regard to age. Of those who came to Sweden and applied for asylum last year – not everyone gets a residence permit – 70 per cent were under 30 years of age. Of course it's about young people. Many have had no chance of education because they have been on the run. Of course they'll get a chance at education. Many are hungry and want nothing more than finally to come to a country where it is also possible for them to educate themselves, get a job that they have dreamed of and be able to contribute. Of course we'll give them that chance. But sometimes we also have their parents, who may not be educated, and there it is not as realistic to think that they will be able to go all the way. Then you need the simpler jobs or jobs with lower qualification requirements to get in. This is also what the government is working on.
i-963b7099e4580f86-137	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that we agree on both the great challenge we face and the analysis that there is a need for more jobs, with which Minister Ylva Johansson calls it, low qualification requirements or what a little more routinely in the debate is called simple jobs. That's what we're agreed on. However, there is very little concrete of this from the government. Do you want to lower the thresholds into the labour market for the large group of newcomers who have relatively low education, relatively weak language skills and significant problems getting a foothold in the Swedish labour market? If we want to open up the labour market to these, the thresholds must be lowered and they must probably be reduced quite substantially. Major reforms in the Swedish labour market are needed in order for us to do this. I remember the last time the Social Democrats were in power. Towards the end of the 2002 – 2006 term, Prime Minister Göran Persson spoke about the jobs coming. But many people in Sweden didn't really perceive it. On the contrary, more and more people realized that we had considerable exclusion at the time, and we had people who had been flown out into health insurance and other things even though they really wanted to work. It took something more than just a bit of a routine hip with the jobs coming, a little per automatic because it was booming. I feel a little the same attitude from the government now. You beat your chest and say that new jobs are being created, Sweden is doing well and growth is high. That is true because we are in a boom, but we are not doing so forever. When the economy is booming, the risk is that when the economic cycle turns downwards, one stands with a very large group of people who have not lived in Sweden for a very long time and are expressed in a kind of periphery. Maybe they have a little scrap jobs, temporary jobs and part-time jobs but no real foothold on the Swedish labour market. This polarizes our country. The ultra-right is only getting stronger and stronger by this. At the same time, more and more people come to Sweden and have expectations of having a future here but feel that Swedish society has not met this in any way but has closed the doors and is discriminatory towards people who come here. Do we want to hold Sweden together and build the common society that I am convinced the Social Democrats still want – that has been wanted for a hundred years – and that we Liberals too want to build? Perhaps we have a different view of freedom of choice and so on. But basically we want a common and strong Sweden. However, we will not be able to cope with the developments we are now seeing with inadequate reforms by the government and a lack of understanding of significant forces on the part of the workers in particular. The trade union movement's view is that the thresholds should not be lowered. Then we will be there in a few years' time with enormous structural problems and growing exclusion. The government must understand that there is genuine concern not only with the opposition but with a large part of the Swedish electorate and the Swedish public. I hope that the government will not only beat its chest in the future, but will also put forward thorough and concrete proposals for opening up the labour market to all those who have come to Sweden.
i-963b7099e4580f86-144	Madam President, I would like I think we share the view that we want to build a Sweden that stays together. I'm sure we can also agree on some of the tools to get there. However, it is a bit sad about the Liberals, who still have a proud history as an educational party and who have valued education for both the individual and society as a way forward, a way of class travel and a way to lift themselves, their children and also an entire society through education to higher levels, better living standards and better opportunities. Even so, one does not seem to see that possibility now. We have great challenges with many people who have come to Sweden. Many flee from countries where women may never have had the chance to ever go to school because of their gender, which is actually one of the reasons why people are fleeing. It is also about young people who may have had a chance to go to school but were forced to flee because of war and have spent many of their youth years, when they should have gone to school, on a terrible flight. Now they're coming here. We share the view that when they have been granted a residence permit, we will give them the best conditions to establish themselves and become full citizens with the same obligations and rights as the rest of us in society. For many, education, and education, will be, for themselves and for Sweden as a whole, an important way into Swedish society. Many educated people are needed in many professions. I'm not saying that's the way for everyone – it won't be – but it's incredibly small shares today that move on to regular education. Of those who leave the start-up assignment, about 5% are now moving on to regular education, preferably those who have a higher education degree in their luggage – but the low-skilled do not. There is a huge challenge here to get young people under the age of 30, who have a long future in Sweden ahead of them, to invest even more in education. It would be fun if we could work together on how to make the education system more flexible in order to meet people in different ways, find new combinations of Swedish for immigrants and vocational training with internships where they can get out of a profession faster, i.e. get education into a profession. They should not only enter the labour market but also remain in the labour market. I see an important challenge there. Thresholds entering the labour market need to be reduced for a lot of people. But perhaps we should also dare to think otherwise than our favorite thing, which seems to the Liberals to be reduced wages. There are different ways of making it easier to enter the labour market. We can create a step stone that makes it possible to get in. We can look at the employer's salary costs. It's also a variable. I want to make it clear that if you want to reduce wages, you can vote for a different party than the Social Democrats.
i-963b7099e4580f86-150	Madam President, I would like Liberals are a party that for many years has fought to strengthen the Swedish school and education system. We were responsible for school policy for eight years in the alliance government, and there we carried out many reforms. Education is important to both the individual and society for several reasons. I do not, however, regard this as a chance for young newcomers to have an education. I regard it as a right for them and, broadly speaking, an obligation for society to provide quality education for young people. Maybe we'll split up there. I think it is very important that people study and study. But then there is a group that wants to work, is older or does not have the motivation to study for a long time. The answer to them cannot be that they should sit on the school bench for years. A 50-year-old woman with several children, who has never attended school, may have considerable difficulties going to school and would rather work and get a income for her family. Is Ylva Johansson's answer to her that she should sit on the school bench? I think that system is in danger of becoming blunt. It will also be a system that does not see the potential of many. I have to ask the government a question. In our previous interpellation debate, Ylva Johansson argued that Buildings is participating in fast track negotiations. I wonder how long the trialogues have been going on and where Building's registration of interest to participate in the fast track is located. I haven't seen it.
i-963b7099e4580f86-154	Madam President, I would like It is good that we can agree that education is an important way. In order for us to succeed, we will also need to implement reforms so that more of those who have come to Sweden can take on an education for real, not least the young. In my previous speech, I said very clearly that I believe that education is an important way, but it will not be the way for everyone. It is not realistic for those who are 50 years old and have never gone to school to reach upper secondary school skills before entering the labour market. That is why jobs with low qualification requirements or easier access to the labour market are needed. That is absolutely necessary. But we will also invest in those who are young, who want and can educate themselves. Nevertheless, let me say that of those who want to leave the start-up mission today, perhaps a few percent of the low-skilled go on to regular training. That's a low number. I think we could tenfold it and perhaps reach 20% or 30%. It is still not all – not even a majority. However, there is considerable potential to equip people to enter the labour market also through education and training. There I hope that we will find ways to work together on this issue. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, there is a difference, namely the attitude towards politics. Either you're appalled by the big problems, the big challenges, or you're dealing with them. The government will do it later.
i-963b7099e4580f86-158	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson how he intends to act to remedy the problem of municipalities' ability to receive new arrivals as much as possible who have lived in asylum homes in the municipality during their asylum period. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The purpose of the law on the reception of certain new arrivals for residence is to achieve a more balanced distribution of reception between the municipalities of the country and to improve the establishment of new arrivals in the labour market and in social life. The distribution takes into account local government's labour market conditions, population size and overall reception of newly arrived and unaccompanied minors, as well as the extent of asylum seekers staying in the municipality. Municipalities with good conditions for establishment should receive more new arrivals than before. As a result, many new arrivals are assigned to municipalities in our metropolitan areas. The instructing authority may decide on instructions in individual cases within the framework of the municipal speeches. It is not regulated which individual considerations should be taken into account when deciding on the instruction. It is urgent that students are not uprooted and forced to change schools unnecessarily. At the same time, last year's record-breaking reception forced the Migration Agency to take many temporary decisions on asylum accommodations in places that do not offer long-term favourable conditions for the establishment of new arrivals. After all, the most important thing for children's growing-up conditions is that parents get a job, a livelihood and the opportunity to establish themselves in society. The government is closely following the development of the application of the new law.
i-963b7099e4580f86-163	Madam President, I would like There are many problems with the Swedish asylum reception. One of the problems is that when people come to Sweden and seek asylum they get to sit for an estimated two years and roll their thumbs. They do so because today it takes so long for the Migration Agency to deal with an asylum matter. Meanwhile, they are in an asylum accommodation somewhere in Sweden. They don't get any Swedish lessons. They do not receive labour market training. We heard 20 minutes ago Ylva Johansson say that it is important that people who are far from the labour market receive labour market training. Those people don't. No one asks asylum seekers what they can to try to match them with an employer at an early stage. They have no social orientation. No one tells them which norms and values govern Swedish society. They don't do anything. They sit and roll their thumbs. Several municipalities have discovered that it is not so good. The state doesn't do anything. Several of the municipalities that have asylum accommodations have rolled up their sleeves and addressed the problem. In some cases they offer Swedish education and labour market training. They have asked asylum seekers what they can do, what they worked with in their home country and how they can best be matched with an employer in Sweden. This is great. In my municipality of Täby you do exactly that way. If we imagine that you are successful in this work, that the municipality succeeds in matching an asylum seeker with an employer and that the asylum seeker receives asylum and is allowed to stay in Sweden – can that person stay in that municipality? You might think it should be in everyone's interest. It should be in the interests of the asylum seeker to remain in the municipality where a job has been obtained. It should be in the employer's interest to keep his new employee. It should be in the interests of the child of the asylum seeker to remain in school where they have been placed and keep their friends. The question is, can they do it? No, because the Migration Agency has had the impression that, now, we are taking these people, who have taken root and got jobs in this municipality, and are moving them to some other part of the country – to Norrland, perhaps. Instead, my municipality, which has done a good job and got the asylum seeker into work, receives another asylum seeker – perhaps one who has been in an asylum home in Social Democratically controlled Malmö, which is notoriously poor at integration. You can ask yourself who benefits from it. The answer is that no one benefits from it. It's a system that's a complete hole in the head. This shouldn't be a political conflict. It should not be something that Ylva Johansson and I are debating in Parliament. It should be a matter of course that a municipality should be able to keep an asylum seeker who has lived in the municipality when the asylum seeker is to be placed in the municipality. I asked this question to Ylva Johansson's colleague Morgan Johansson this spring and got a good-day-ax-ft answer. I ask Ylva Johansson now and get a good-day-ax-ft answer. Ylva Johansson said in the previous debate that this government is tackling the problems. On this issue, however, it is quite obvious that the government is the problem.
i-963b7099e4580f86-172	Madam President, I would like One might ask who stands for good day ax shaft here. Fredrik Schulte paints a picture that doesn't match reality. I would like to start by saying that it is not two years' waiting time in the asylum process. It has gone up to perhaps 15 months but is now dropping rapidly, and the government is making great efforts to bring it down. It is, of course, unacceptable to have such a long waiting period. Unlike the old government, this government has introduced Swedish from day one already during the asylum period. Unlike the old government, this government has already introduced social information during the asylum period. Unlike the old government, this government has provided special resources to the sports movement and civil society to make special efforts for asylum seekers during the asylum period. This is also done to a very large extent. Folkbildning, which stands for Swedish from day one, has had a tremendous expansion of its operations in a very short time. It's admirable. Unlike the old government, this government has commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to provide early skills mapping already during the asylum period. It is important not to end up in passive waiting, but to use time as actively as possible. This is why the government has changed its policy and invested heavily in early efforts. It is Arbetsförmedlingen, not the Migration Agency, that today settles people according to the new instruction law. And I can say that in Stockholm County, as Fredrik Schulte takes as an example with Täby Municipality, there are more places for instruction than there are asylum seekers in construction housing. In Stockholm County, you can expect to remain in the county. Many will remain in the same municipality, for that is the principle that governs the distribution. One should of course be placed in the municipality where one already exists and has existed during the period of asylum. There are exceptions to this, and it is municipalities that have a large proportion of asylum seekers and are supposed to receive quite few in relation to what the labour market looks like and the other criteria that we benefit from. A little simplistic can be said that several rural municipalities have a large and several metropolitan municipalities a small number of asylum seekers in relation to the number of places of instruction. This means that if you are in one of the larger cities, you can expect to remain in the municipality or within the county in your instructions, because that is obviously what governs when Arbetsförmedlingen works with the individual instructions – that you take this into account. But you also follow the municipal numbers to ensure that people are given a chance to establish themselves in the regions where the jobs are located so that they have a chance to get a job.
i-963b7099e4580f86-180	Madam President, I would like Ylva Johansson stands here and holds a long statement about exactly what I have not asked the question about. But at the end, she actually comes to an interesting conclusion. Let me just point out that what the debate is about is not what efforts you have made or how much money you have spent in your budget. The question is: If you have a job in the municipality in which you have lived during the asylum process, can you stay there if the municipality so wishes? The reason I ask the question is that 14 municipalities that have this situation together have written a letter to both Ylva Johansson and the Migration Agency. They're not moderate municipalities. It is a mixture of municipalities with all the different party denominations – in fact, above all social democraticly governed municipalities – who are upset that the Migration Board cannot give a clear answer to this question. Unfortunately, the answer given by the Migration Agency is that you do not care. This is not taken into account. Now Ylva Johansson says in a passus here that she can guarantee that you will stay in the municipality where you have lived if you have got a job. It is interesting that she says that, and I will make sure that she keeps her word, because that is not the signal that these municipalities get from the Migration Agency. Now it is true that Ylva Johansson is not responsible for the Migration Agency, but rather the Minister for Migration. It is possible that you are speaking past each other, and it is a bit sad that the Minister for Migration is not here and can give the clear answer and the message. My supplementary question to you, Ylva Johansson, is very clear: Can you promise and guarantee that people who have received a job, who want to stay in the municipality in which they have lived during the asylum trial and who the municipality wants to have left may be part of the municipal placements that the municipality must be responsible for? Can you promise that, here and now in the speaker's chair, in a clear way? In your answer, you answer something completely different from what I'm asking. If you can promise me that clearly, we are in agreement on this issue, and that would be great. Unfortunately, however, the municipalities receive quite different signals from those given by Ylva Johansson now.
i-963b7099e4580f86-186	Madam President, I would like I think Fredrik Schulte is talking about something else. The question, the interpellation, is about instructions to municipalities – municipal instructions. Local government instructions are made today by the Swedish Public Employment Service, not by the Finnish Immigration Service. When referring to a municipality, you should follow a municipality number, which is the minimum number that the municipality should receive. The municipality is free to receive more. Of course, you can receive more for residence in the municipality than those assigned by the Instructions Act. When indicated, Arbetsförmedlingen follows certain principles as far as possible. One of them is the principle of proximity – not unnecessarily moving people, such as children, who have rooted themselves. This may mean moving within the municipality or at least within the county so that, for example, you can maintain a normal commuting distance if you have got a job. This is the principle that the Public Employment Service follows. You can't always follow it. During the large influx of refugees last year, new temporary asylum accommodations burst up, sometimes in municipalities with a relatively small population of their own that received a disproportionate proportion of asylum seekers in their municipality. At the same time, it is sometimes municipalities with a rather poor labour market. Then, of course, you may need to move people from there to a municipality where it is a better labour market situation. It is therefore not possible to follow this fully, but in situations where there is a good labour market situation, municipalities have also received a fairly high number of municipalities in the Instructions Act. According to the Swedish Public Employment Service, there is no problem with assigning as much as possible in the vicinity or at least within the county. That is the principle that is being followed today. In my opinion, that is not the problem in metropolitan areas.
i-963b7099e4580f86-191	Madam President, I would like I fully understand and agree that it cannot always be guaranteed that an asylum seeker may remain in the municipality in which he has been placed. It is really quite obvious, and if it is me and Ylva Johansson one hundred percent agree. It is necessary to ensure that people are placed in a place where they can get to work most easily. What was now the question was: Will the municipalities that have asylum homes and who have been given asylum seekers to work be allowed to keep these asylum seekers as part of those who are to be received and placed in the municipality? Directly Ylva Johansson trembles on the cuff and says that it is clear that you can receive more. That's not what I asked you. You can take my municipality of residence Täby as an example. We have an arrival home in the municipality with, if I remember correctly, about 500 asylum seekers. We have now started to work actively to identify their skills and to ensure that they enter the labour market seriously. The problem is that if we get some of them to work, we cannot accept even more than them. That is because we have a housing situation that is unsustainable. There's no housing. There is not enough housing being built, and we simply cannot deal with that situation. So I ask a question once again, and Ylva Johansson should be glad that I am the one who is standing here debating with her and not Täby's municipal commissioner. He is angry because he receives completely different signals from the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Public Employment Service. Again: Can Ylva Johansson guarantee that the asylum seekers who come to work can stay in the municipality and be included in the proportion that the municipality is to receive?
i-963b7099e4580f86-196	Madam President, I would like I almost wonder if Fredrik Schulte is talking about anything other than what he has asked about. Of course, the Migration Agency may need to move an asylum seeker from one home to another during the asylum period. Then it's a decision by the Migration Agency. But when it comes to residence, the principle is that one should be placed on the basis of individual considerations, and if one is in a municipality where one has already got a job and where the labour market is good, I can see no obstacle whatsoever to being placed there. According to information from the Swedish Public Employment Service, this is also exactly how you already work.
i-963b7099e4580f86-197	Madam President, I would like Robert Halef has asked me if a new connection across Södertälje Canal will be investigated in the next national infrastructure plan. A well-functioning transport system is the basis for access to, among other things, jobs and housing. The competitiveness of industry is also based on reliable transport both within Sweden and with the rest of the world. If the transport infrastructure available for this purpose cannot be used as intended, it will have consequences and can be felt by society. The accident at Södertälje Canal is an example of the transport system being vulnerable. It is therefore important to work to reduce vulnerability and make the transport system more robust. There are several actors in society who have a designated responsibility to work within their activities to reduce vulnerability. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for the state transport infrastructure, which means that they will promote good robustness and that emerging crisis situations can be managed effectively. This work takes place in the short-term perspective of day-to-day operations and in collaboration with several other authorities, municipalities and county councils. After the accident in Södertälje, Trafikverket has started work to improve its ability to manage and mitigate the effects of disturbances in the transport system in Stockholm County. The work involves evaluating whether current resources are being used correctly and identifying sensitive points in the system that may need better preparedness. If Trafikverket identifies the need for new infrastructure measures in this work, these will be tested within the framework of long-term infrastructure planning. The Government has begun work to develop a new national traffic law-crossing plan for the development of the transport system for the period 2018-2029 and intends to present a proposal in autumn 2016 as a basis for the Riksdag's decision on the orientation and financial framework for the planning period. Determination of the plan is expected in spring 2018.
i-6pZnUdQmc3YNthG69QLjMk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for the answer to the interpellation! During the midsummer weekend an accident occurred on the motorway bridge in Södertälje. A truck crashed into the side of the highway bridge, causing great damage. After the motorway bridge broke down in Södertälje it was closed all summer, and many drew a sigh of relief when it could finally be opened on August 22. The accident occurred during the least harmful time of the year, just when the vast majority began their vacation. Yet the accident caused it for people in Södertälje, the business community there and almost everyone who was going south from Stockholm. Madam President, I would like Every hour over 3,000 vehicles pass the motorway bridge in Södertälje. The connection is of national interest and important to the entire Swedish business community. The motorway bridge is the only connection over Södertälje canal for two of the country's largest roads, E4 and E20. When it cannot be used, traffic is routed through the city centre with devastating consequences. Södertälje is a growing city with nearly 100,000 inhabitants and a strong business community. In Södertälje there are two of Sweden's largest export companies, Scania and Astra Zeneca. If a new accident occurs at another time of the year when production is at high speed, and you are not better prepared, the socio-economic costs will be even more severe. Madam President, I would like The motorway bridge was closed for 59 days, and traffic had to be routed through Södertälje city with hourly traffic queues. The Brohaget has cost about 20 million for Trafikverket to fix, and the socio-economic consequences are large and difficult to calculate but have been estimated by some assessors at over 100 million. A functioning transport system is essential for the competitiveness of industry and for reliable transport. It facilitates travel and makes it possible to live and work in different parts of the country. The local entrepreneurs have been hit hard by the brohage. Some local entrepreneurs have lost 40% in sales. They lose customers and income and have been forced to lay off staff. Air passengers who were going to Skavsta airport did not arrive in time. Local residents lived all summer with hourly queues and very limited accessibility. The police found it difficult to get on time for crimes committed. Ports had to reload cargo to smaller boats and thus suffered large costs. The accident has shown us that the already busy motorway bridge is too important for a functioning infrastructure. We have now seen evidence of the vulnerability of the traffic system and the consequences of a major stoppage in traffic. This shows the importance of planning for a new bridge connection in the upcoming infrastructure plan for the years 2018 – 202 9.
i-963b7099e4580f86-211	Madam President, I would like This kind of accident has very serious consequences and also shows the enormous importance of transport infrastructure in our country, both for people to be able to get to their workplaces and for industry to get their goods out properly. Of course, on both the road and the rail networks we have certain points that are more vulnerable or cause more damage than others if they are affected by a temporary stop. Therefore, I think it is good that Trafikverket has now initiated a work to identify what extra important such points we have in the traffic system. Preventing this type of accident is very difficult; they are, as it were, unpredictable in nature. On the other hand, you can ensure that you have sufficient preparedness for diversion and to take action if these sensitive points are affected by, for example, an accident such as the one in Södertälje. I think it is extremely important that the Finnish Transport Administration should now step up this work and that possible measures should also be brought back. Having said that, we can note that in the current national plan there is an increase in capacity in the case of Södertälje Bridge, where it is planned to extend the capacity to three plus three files, i.e. three files in each direction. It is rather late in the planning period, and this is mainly due to the fact that the entire extension is linked to the completion of the Stockholm bypass. You then expect a slightly higher traffic flow that you have to face. What remains for Trafikverket to do for the next planning period is to make suggestions on which measures and objects should be the highest priority, based on the needs that can be identified in the transport system. That work has not yet begun. There, the Swedish Transport Administration will await the infrastructure bill that will be submitted to the Riksdag during the autumn.
i-963b7099e4580f86-215	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that a new three-lane road is under way. We look forward to that. It will reduce the current congestion on the route. But I am calling for a new bridge connection. The day we find ourselves in the same situation as recently, large sections of society will be affected. In my opinion, it will not be enough to broaden the path and make it three-lane in each direction. Södertälje is one of Sweden's largest hubs for logistics, with many transports passing through. When Södertälje is affected, companies are affected throughout Sweden. In other words, Södertälje Canal and the motorway bridge have great significance for Swedish business. The question is what happens if another accident occurs and how we can prevent this in order to facilitate the flow of traffic on the motorway bridge and at sea. Passengers, freight transport and business need a more efficient infrastructure. A new motorway bridge is a solution and this should be taken into account in the government's work on a new national infrastructure plan. Madam President, I would like The question is whether the residents of Södertälje, the business community with Scania and Astra Zeneca, nearby ports and all the road users who are affected and who expect the government to review the possibilities for a new motorway bridge can get an answer today. It is not acceptable for companies across the country to suffer and lose income and competitiveness. Travellers, Scania, Astra Zeneca and all other companies in Södertälje are worried. The Södertälje residents and all those who work in Södertälje are worried. In shipping, you're worried. The Christian Democrats are sensitive and share these concerns. It is not acceptable that two of the country's main roads, E4 and E20, should have only one link across the canal. Madam President, I would like Many Södertäljebor, travellers and traders wonder if there will be an investment in a new connection across Södertälje Canal in the next national infrastructure plan. They deserve an honest answer. The Minister for Infrastructure has personally been there and met with interested parties. The question is: Will the Minister for Infrastructure actively promote a new motorway connection across Södertälje Canal?
i-963b7099e4580f86-222	Madam President, I would like The accident we are talking about occurred in the summer of 2016, but Södertäljebron has been an important connection across Södertälje Canal for a long time. The fact that one can question the robustness of the system and the ability to cope with a stop on Södertäljebron is not in itself something that arose with the accident. There had been every opportunity for Robert Halef and the Christian Democrats to enter a new bridge over Södertälje Canal in the current infrastructure plan or in the previous infrastructure plan. It has been chosen not to do so, and I think it is partly because it is difficult to predict where this type of event should occur. In Trafikverket's documentation to the government before the infrastructure bill, it also points to the importance of fully using the four-step principle when planning new objects. That is to say, it first sees whether there are other alternatives to increasing traffic, whether there are ways to increase capacity with other measures and whether there are opportunities to rebuild the existing structure. Ultimately, one looks at building completely new infrastructure. This principle should, of course, also apply in this case. A problem has now been identified, and the question is how to solve that problem in the most efficient way possible from the socio-economic point of view. I believe that Robert Halef knows very well that we do not take a stand on individual objects at this stage. What we are doing now is preparing a bill with the direction and scope of the next planning period. Which items should then be prioritised in the national plan is the next issue. It is important that we try to see the entire transport infrastructure system in Sweden at the same time. It is very easy to see that this with Södertäljebron is important, but there are many such points in the transport system in Sweden around Sweden that make the system vulnerable. We can't even out an individual part and say, "We're going to fix this one." We must, of course, have the whole picture clear to us and make a priority from where our money is most useful. That work isn't done yet. Nor did the previous government with regard to Södertälje Bridge. Of course, this need will be taken into account, but if it means allocating funds for a new bridge, it is far too early to respond.
i-963b7099e4580f86-228	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that you are taking this issue on board and that this will be taken into account in future discussions on future investments in infrastructure. A new accident on this bridge would have devastating consequences for business and travel. A lot of people would be hit very hard. It is important that we make some kind of priority and indication with a mission to Trafikverket to speed up the review of how to avoid such breakdowns, reduce the risk of accidents and so on, and at the same time explore the possibility of a new bridge connection across the canal. The Christian Democrats will be actively working on this issue in the future, I promise you in this House. It is precisely for this reason that I have asked a written question, and I am following it up today through this interpellation. We will come back to this issue later on in various contexts in this House. Madam President, I would like It is a major responsibility of the government and the Minister for Infrastructure to ensure that we have a functioning infrastructure today and in the future to facilitate travel and strengthen the competitiveness of business. In his response to my interpellation, the Minister for Infrastructure says, among other things, that if the Swedish Transport Administration in this work identifies the need for new infrastructure measures, these are tested within the framework of long-term infrastructure planning. The fact is that the bridge breakdown has demonstrated the vulnerability of this bridge connection and that a new connection is necessary. As a minister and government, take responsibility for these issues, and act now by commissioning the Swedish Transport Administration to investigate a new motorway bridge over Södertälje Canal! This is how we equip Sweden for future challenges.
i-963b7099e4580f86-231	Madam President, I would like Now it is not only Södertälje that will be equipped for the future, but we have transport systems throughout our country. That is why we have a long-term planning that makes an overall assessment of which items should be prioritised: where are the weak points? Where are the great needs? Where can problems be addressed with other, more cost-effective measures rather than building new ones? Of course, the Finnish Transport Administration has the task of carrying out all this work. Therefore, we do not give special and specific assignments to Trafikverket to investigate individual objects. The assignment to Trafikverket is that the knowledge that exists about the transport system in Sweden should suggest the wisest priorities. Then, in the end, it is a political decision on what that priority should be. But the evidence we need to get in from Trafikverket. There are probably many around the country who think that their very bridge, road or railway should be given priority in such planning. But since the government is responsible for the whole country and for a robust transport system for business and people throughout our country, I think it is a wise approach to try to see the whole and to plan in a whole and not in part. That is why we are waiting for the work that the Finnish Transport Administration is doing. However, I would like to point out that the work initiated by the Finnish Transport Administration is a very good start. They have ensured diversions, that is to say, that the route in question, which could not be reversed at the time of the accident, can be reversed and they have started work on identifying vulnerabilities in the system. I hope that we will soon get a report back from the Finnish Transport Administration and that they will take the measures that they can take in the short term too, because it is not just a new building that is a solution here.
i-963b7099e4580f86-235	Madam President, I would like Lena Asplund has asked me who in the healthcare sector has expressed a wish for a different regional division, how I see that there is no broad popular base to push through this major change and what quality and patient safety has to do with regional enlargement. Jenny Petersson has asked me how I justify the fact that the investigation into large regions does not take into account the views of the inhabitants, what I intend to do to improve popular anchoring before decisions on large regions are taken and what I intend to do to ensure that the new regions do not destroy functioning cooperation. I will respond to them in a joint response. It is clear from the directives of the Division Committee that the proposals must be well established with the parties concerned. It is of particular importance that the Committee engages in a dialogue with and gathers the views of, among others, the municipalities and county councils concerned. The Committee has chosen a way of working with a broad focus on work and the opportunity for different regional and local actors to express their views and perspectives. The Division Committee has submitted an interim report and proposes, among other things, that three new counties be formed from 2018 and that the corresponding county councils be formed from 2019. The report has been referred to many relevant bodies. The response time ends in the beginning of October. The preparation of the proposals is continuing and I do not intend to go ahead with the consultation. However, the following can be said. The question of the region has been investigated several times. These studies clearly indicate that the current classification of counties and county councils is largely no longer appropriate and that several of the county councils and county boards are too small to cope with their tasks both in the short and long term. Swedish Municipalities and Regions, SKL, together with representatives of individual county councils and municipalities, who have a good knowledge of the activities and their needs, have clearly stated that a new county and county councils division is needed. The municipal dialogues that I conduct in each county have also expressed the need to change the current county boundaries. The need is linked, among other things, to the changing movement patterns of the population and the importance of providing good and equal care throughout the country, as well as the creation of equal conditions for regional development work. The political representatives in municipalities and county councils are democratically elected. Together with the state, they have a responsibility to ensure that public administration is robust and sustainable in the long term to ensure that citizens receive a good service. This also involves a continuous review of the organisation of management in order to find more effective solutions. It is also the responsibility of politicians to follow closely the activities for which they are responsible. In this way, they gain a good knowledge of the current and future challenges facing the operations and can assess how the management is able to meet the requirements and needs that exist. Through the referral of the Division Committee's interim report, the Government will receive the views of those who have the greatest overall knowledge of how the administration works and thus also have the best knowledge to assess whether and how the administration meets the challenges and what measures are otherwise needed. I would also like to refer to the report on "Training" which provides skills from the report on highly specialised care. The study shows a clear link between volume and quality and notes that a new county and county councils division can facilitate the level structure of health care and give the authorities the opportunity to cope with regionally highly specialised care on their own. With regard to the question of taking account of effective cooperation, I would like to point out that one of the starting points of the Division Committee has been to base itself on existing cooperation patterns. In this context, too, we must not forget the wide-ranging interaction that already exists through the six health care regions. The proposals put forward by the Committee are very much in line with the way in which this interaction is organised.
i-LpDzm58ZCAPEU1DajiV3Mr	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and Minister of State Ardalan Shekarabi. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties.
i-963b7099e4580f86-249	Mr President, I would like to Ambassador Krister Bringéus has now handed over his investigation into Sweden's defence and security cooperation, including NATO, to the government. Bringéus states that the overall conflict-responsive capacity of the West would increase with Sweden in NATO. In his government declaration, the Prime Minister stressed the importance of cooperation on security. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence, Peter Hultqvist, why it is so important for the government to keep the door closed to NATO.
i-963b7099e4580f86-251	Mr President, I would like to Security policy, like not a race-turner activity, requires some rigour, long-termness and stability in this context. Changing security policy doctrine would have major consequences and, above all, put pressure on Finland. We believe that the situation is best served by maintaining the freedom of military alliances, raising military capabilities in accordance with the decision taken by Parliament and deepening our cooperation with other countries, which we are doing in a very comprehensive and effective way today compared with what it looked like during the previous government period. We have deepened our cooperation with Finland beyond peacetime conditions and practise army, aircraft and marines. We have an agreement with the United States, we have an agreement with the United Kingdom, we have an agreement with Poland and Denmark and we have developed our relationship with the Baltic countries. That is the cooperation line.
i-963b7099e4580f86-254	Mr President, I would like to As far as security policy is concerned, it can change quite quickly depending on the state of the world, and we have seen that in recent years. Why, then, does the government prefer bilateral cooperation with the US and the other countries that the Minister of Defence lined up here instead of cooperation within the framework of NATO, where Sweden, together with like-minded other states, would have much more opportunity to influence cooperation?
i-963b7099e4580f86-255	Mr President, I would like to Within the framework of NATO's partnership, we and Finland are taking part on a military non-alignment basis. We assume, then, that we have the geographical position we have. Of course, if Sweden and, by extension, Finland were to change the security policy doctrine, it would have a decisive impact on the tension situation in our part of Europe. Why should we go into such a situation? We believe that the cooperation we have is the most stable, best and calmest way to deal with security policy today.
i-963b7099e4580f86-258	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday the newspaper Dagens Nyheter was able to read a debate article written by researcher Joakim Landström. He has written two reports to the government's report on welfare gains. In the article, he says:.When Ilmar Reepalu says in SVT's Agenda that the profit level in the welfare companies should be less than 10 percent, he goes against my analysis. Should his proposal become a reality, it would in practice mean a nationalisation of the welfare sector. ..................................................... Although many patients, students and relatives and staff are satisfied with the quality, care and school that many companies offer, you still want to cut them off at their ankles. Why?
i-963b7099e4580f86-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question! The regulatory framework for private performers in public-funded welfare needs to be developed and adjusted. We need to ensure that taxpayers' resources are used as efficiently as possible and for the purposes for which they are intended. At present we do not have that kind of regulatory framework, and therefore we have also seen that we have activities where resources are used for entirely different activities than those for which they are intended. We have had bankruptcies in school activities that have meant that thousands of children and young people have been left outside their schools when they are going to school. We have had rogue actors who have entered welfare activities, and we do not want that. We want to benefit serious actors – private performers, municipal performers and cooperative performers in the welfare sector. We want to safeguard diversity, and then we also need to have a long-term framework that is sustainable. That is the question that the Welfare Investigation has to answer. The report does not come until November.
i-963b7099e4580f86-263	Mr President, I would like to Your profit hunt on companies will only result in many companies, and most of them are actually very serious, having to close down their businesses, even though the elderly, relatives, staff and students are satisfied. Despite the fact that even researchers employed by the investigation warn that diversity can disappear, you continue your quest for companies. Why do you want to nationalise the welfare sector, Ardalan Shekarabi?
i-963b7099e4580f86-264	Mr President, I would like to I don't know where the information on nationalisation comes from. In the directives to the Welfare Investigation, it is very clear that the mission is to ensure that we get better use of resources in our welfare and that we ensure diversity and choice for users. So there are no plans to nationalise. On the contrary, we need to strengthen diversity, but then also the smaller players, the cooperative operators and the non-profit players must be given the opportunity to be included in the welfare system.
i-963b7099e4580f86-267	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. The large number of new arrivals who have arrived in Sweden in recent years places great demands on integration and efforts for integration, where language is an important key for the opportunity to enter society. Right now, Sweden's municipalities are looking for sfi teachers with light and lanterns in order to find the skills they need to give the new arrivals the skills they need. The government launched earlier with noise and bång what it calls the Teacher Salary Lift to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession and attract more to become a teacher. This initiative does not include SFI teachers, which sends a very strange signal, as it may be there that the need is at its greatest right now. Why?
i-963b7099e4580f86-269	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe, for the question! That is quite right: we have great challenges in terms of language teaching. The government has taken the initiative to Swedish from day one, already during the period of asylum. To make maximum use of resources, we use – and have been helped by – peoples' education, which makes great efforts. Sfi, for which the municipalities are responsible, faces huge challenges. The lack of SFI teachers was great even before, and it is now even more crying. The government is investing heavily in training more SFI teachers. It is a complementary education so that more people can become SFI teachers. The problem is not today that we have many SFI teachers who do not work in the profession. The problem is that we have very few trained SFI teachers, and it is important to maintain the quality of teaching that you also have the right education.
i-963b7099e4580f86-271	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer! I understand that the Minister for Labour thinks it is tricky when the government interferes in wage formation. It makes it much more dynamic, so to speak. But now you have chosen to do what you have done, and then you have to take responsibility for it. The challenge is that the teacher student who is thinking about what course to take, or the teacher who today is a teacher in Swedish and who would have to attend this particular further education as a sfi teacher, which the government would like to invest in, thus making a choice where they will get lower salary if they respond to needs that exist. Isn't that a problem that the government should see and address?
i-963b7099e4580f86-273	Mr President, I would like to We have major problems and major challenges with regard to the need for SFI teachers. That there would be many SFI teachers who do not want to work as SFI teachers is not the big problem but that we have far too few who have the right education. In the effort to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, the government has chosen to invest in youth school and not in adult education, and SFI is a school form that belongs to adult education.
i-963b7099e4580f86-276	Mr President, I would like to In the Government Declaration, the Prime Minister said that quality and freedom of choice should characterise welfare. It sounds promising that the government suggests that it understands that quality and choice are interrelated. At the same time, the government's investigator Ilmar Reepalu is working on a proposal to restrict the ability of companies to operate in welfare that is so hard that the investigation's own expert says that in practice it would mean a nationalisation of the welfare sector, which would seriously harm Sweden, its growth and the prosperity of all of us. Already today, many of us are worried. Therefore, I ask Minister Ardalan Shekarabi: How are you going to get quality and choice in welfare if there are no companies there and no prosperity either?
i-963b7099e4580f86-279	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Christina for the question. Venture capital companies do not belong in welfare activities. That is not my opinion, Mr President, but the words of Jan Björklund. They were spoken when Jan Björklund was in the government and was Deputy Prime Minister. If we are serious about having an effective use of resources and long-term sustainability of welfare, we must take steps to ensure that those who are active in welfare and receive our tax money to conduct school and welfare activities are serious and use the resources for what they are intended for. We don't have those tools today. That's why we had the JB bankruptcy. We have had huge over-profits in child and youth care, which is the welfare activity aimed at the most vulnerable in our society. The government will work towards long-term sustainable regulatory frameworks. We will promote diversity and quality. We do not turn a blind eye to the problems, and we do not stop at rhetoric.
i-963b7099e4580f86-284	Mr President, I would like to Both private and municipally driven well-being are at the root of the problem. However, many measurements show that welfare companies have on average higher quality and more satisfied service recipients. Unserious companies should not have a profit ceiling; they should not exist at all in welfare. Quality is secured by high standards and strict supervision, not by chasing windmills.
i-963b7099e4580f86-288	Mr President, I would like to There is nothing to fear for the serious private actors in the jointly funded welfare system who deliver quality. They will be welcome in the continued system and will be able to help develop welfare and improve the quality of welfare activities. But those who are in the well-being of the prize hunt, who are cutting down on the staff to increase profits and who are reducing the quality to maximize profits should not be found in the jointly funded welfare in Sweden. Here we focus on quality and efficient use of resources.
i-963b7099e4580f86-291	Mr President, I would like to In a somewhat odd way, the government released the announcement this week that the National Exhibitions on Gotland will be closed. National exhibitions are an expert and resource authority for development and cooperation within the museum area and support the museums through both international analysis and method development and advice. In the report on new museum policy that was submitted to the government last autumn, it was suggested that the National Exhibitions should be closed and that the resources should instead be used to build a new museum authority. At the same time, it was stressed that the activities are important, and this applies above all to the importance of the National Exhibitions for development and collaboration, but also to the specific task of the development and dissemination of contemporary art. What I understand is the idea that everything should become part of the National Heritage Office, which is certainly good at its own but which today is engaged in quite different things. Mr President, I would like to I am a positive person and always hope that the Minister of Culture has a plan before she tears up and closes. My question is therefore: How does she intend to guarantee that the important competence of national exhibitions is exploited and developed?
i-963b7099e4580f86-295	Mr President, I would like to I thank Member of Parliament Olof Lavesson. I have a plan. I have a plan for culture in Sweden. I have a plan for us to create more culture for more people. Culture is a meeting place for people, and we need a Sweden that holds together and more meeting places. We also need a coherent cultural policy. We need a professionalised cultural policy, a professionalism that exists in our institutions. The National Antiquarie Office is such a platform, an opportunity. Our decision that Riksutställningar should be phased out and grow into Riksantikvariebetet is an effort on the important tasks that Riksutställningar has and has done with this honor. As regards the jobs that exist on Gotland, an island that has great potential but where it is important that the jobs remain, I would like to point out that there is no risk of them disappearing.
i-963b7099e4580f86-300	Mr President, I would like to I wonder what impact assessment the government has done before releasing this message. The fact that one of these was not mentioned in the Swedish National Exhibitions in their referrals was already in the spring. The National Board of Antiquities does not mention how to use and develop the activities of the National Exhibitions, but sees it as an employment policy issue. The role of national exhibitions has been under discussion for a long time, but changes must be made with respect for the mission and competence and without throwing the child out with the bathwater.
i-963b7099e4580f86-302	Mr President, I would like to The goods of national exhibitions have been discussed for a long time. There is much written and many thoughts. We have also had investigations about this, including the Museum investigation, and many referrals. This is in line with the referee. So it's solid, and we know where we're going. We will strengthen the role of culture in our country. We'll give it more room. We will professionalise it and show that with the help of the profession and with an arms-long distance between politics and the profession, these activities will develop into everyone's welfare.
i-963b7099e4580f86-305	Mr President, I would like to For some time now, there has been a debate about whether it is reasonable or not for tax money to be used to finance wage dumping. I do not think that is reasonable, and it is therefore gratifying that there is a proposal on the part of Parliament to prevent tax-funded wage dumping. However, there are a number of worrying allegations about the bill in the debate. Among other things, it is argued that the Government's proposal places lower demands on foreign companies and that they will thus be able to engage in wage dumping.
i-963b7099e4580f86-309	Mr President, I would like to I thank Monica Haider for the question. In Sweden, Swedish salaries shall apply. The first thing we can do to ensure this is to ensure that our tax money is not spent on dumping the wages of those who are toiling in welfare and in publicly funded activities. We're getting some disturbing reports from the haulage industry. We are receiving very worrying reports from the taxi industry of confirmed minimum wages of SEK 27 per hour. The same applies to the cleaning industry. We have now come up with a proposal that means that the public should make demands on fair terms in connection with public procurement. These conditions shall apply to both Swedish labour force and posted labour. It will be a clear change to what it is like now when Swedish serious companies that offer their employees wages and conditions under Swedish collective agreements are discriminated against. This discrimination must stop, and this is done by legislating against it.
i-963b7099e4580f86-314	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is of course important that we compete on equal terms whether it is Swedish or foreign labour. I look forward to the bill going through in Parliament.
i-963b7099e4580f86-316	Mr President, I would like to For many years, the Swedish Democrats have been actively working to remove the begging in Sweden, which has flared up, not least with open borders with Romania and Bulgaria. We have actively pursued this issue in both the Riksdag and the public debate. All the other parties have been negative to our proposals and also thrown a lot of less flattering epithet at us because of them – until just recently when almost everyone realized that the Swedish Democrats were right again. A clear reversal took place on 18 August when the Minister of Civil Affairs said that he was considering imposing a begging ban similar to that in our neighbouring countries. The problem is that the Green Party denied the move, and both Stefan Löfven and Isabella Lövin reject such talks in the government. Will the government come up with a proposal to ban begging, or was it just empty talk?
i-963b7099e4580f86-321	Mr President, I would like to It is serious that people live in such poor and vulnerable conditions that they are forced to beg. It is contrary to the view of the people that guides the government about the equal value of human beings. To beg for a living is not a long-term solution. It is not sustainable, and it does not lead to a better life for people. The solution to this is that people who come to Sweden today to beg get decent living conditions in their own home countries. That is the main line of government policy. We do not rule out the need to take further action. It is important, for example, to evict persons who settle illegally. Other things may also need to be done, but the basic view is that people who are so vulnerable that they have no way forward but to beg for support and help in a dignified life.
i-963b7099e4580f86-324	Mr President, I would like to The answer to my question, even if Ylva Johansson did not say it directly, is therefore no. The answer from the government is that they should not ban begging, but should have more social efforts and spend more money on the EU tigers who come to our country. That is regrettable. Ardalan Shekarabi is in the hall today, but he obviously could not answer the question himself. I think it is good that we were given a clear answer, even if we did not hear it. I still ask the question: was it a yes or a no if you want to impose a begging ban?
i-963b7099e4580f86-327	Mr President, I would like to I reply during Question Time to those questions that do not concern any of the other ministers' responsibilities. That is why I am answering this question. It is a serious problem that people are begging on the streets of Sweden. We cannot have that, but the Swedish Democrats do not have the solution to this problem.
i-963b7099e4580f86-329	Mr President, I would like to For Sörmland's part, the division committee's proposal for a regional division for Svealand County has insufficient functional links. The region will also be geographically very large. It is clear that other considerations than what should be the basis, i.e. labour market regions and growth, lie at the heart of the map drawing. How health care should be organised is a strange starting point. One of the directives of the Division Committee is that the new counties should be well adapted to the everyday patterns of the population. These are not the current proposals. It is unfortunate to misplace an important reform through the wrong focus. In addition, the timetable is unrealistic, with its entry into force already on 1 January 2019. Why do the government parties want to make this reform a haste in which citizens' questions lack answers and reasonable democratic implementation is ignored?
i-LUyJQfweekDvsBL6mCN3w2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the question and for the commitment to the region! Sweden needs to be regionalised. The decentralised welfare model must be protected and developed. We need to decentralise more of decision-making closer to the people. Then we need regions that are equally strong and have the right conditions for continuing to operate health care, regional development work and, not least, public transport. For this, we need to implement a reform that affects administrative boundaries. At the moment, we have a proposal on the table that is being referred to, and all interested parties have the opportunity to submit comments. On 6 October we will receive the referrals, and then we will continue the preparation process. Of course, it is important to take into account the views that exist on division issues, but it is incredibly important that we continue to decentralise welfare and the public sector in Sweden and that we regionalise Sweden. It's a force for our country.
i-963b7099e4580f86-336	Mr President, I would like to If the proposed regional classification is decided, the only reasonable entry into force is 1 January 2023. It is unreasonable that the six existing county councils that are supposed to form Svealand County should be reorganised into a county council that coordinates other activities until 1 January 2019. Why not let the question be highlighted and discussed in an election campaign?
i-963b7099e4580f86-338	Mr President, I would like to I think Lotta Finstorp is quite alone in thinking that this is a haste where we have an urgent process. I think it was 1967 that the first report on the regional division in Sweden was presented. Over the past ten years, we have had two state investigations that have proposed a new regional division in both the state and county councils sector. This has been discussed very intensively over the last ten years, both in County Sweden and in the state. Now is the time to act, but it must of course be done with the support of the stakeholders concerned.
i-963b7099e4580f86-340	Mr President, I would like to It is now the third time that it has been pointed out to the Minister for Culture that meeting places need more support and that local development, democratic dialogue, culture, integration and meetings require the meeting places that our 1 423 district farms offer. The government will shortly be presenting its budget. The sobriety movement and the labour movement will surely be as disappointed as we in the district yards if it turns out once again that the Minister's talk about the importance of civil society is as empty as before. Will she continue to undermine support for the assembly halls and their organisations or not? There was earlier talk of professional cultural work. We need the non-profit culture, too.
i-963b7099e4580f86-343	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ola Johansson, for your commitment to the issue! It is a commitment that you share with many of your party colleagues and many here in Parliament. The opportunity for people to meet is in great need of us. What we in the government are currently working intensively on and that we will continue to work intensively with during the next term of office is to create meeting places. We're in the process of building a community. We invest in a Sweden that stays together. Then voluntary work, free cultural life and civil society are crucial. Of course you need meeting places. I've never talked empty, never in my life, and I won't do it now either. On the contrary, we will shortly come with news that will astound many.
i-963b7099e4580f86-347	Mr President, I would like to Empty and empty, Alice Bah Kuhnke. On 25 February this year you were informed that your authority Boverket is using one and a half million kronor of the support that would go to the assembly hall organisations to pay instead the staff's salaries. Now I ask you once again to come to one of our 1,400 houses to see how much each invested crown does for young people, for culture, for local development and for meetings in everyday life between Swedes and new arrivals. You won't let us down again, will you?
i-963b7099e4580f86-350	Mr President, I would like to Again, I am pleased with this commitment. This is where we really meet across the boundaries that people are trying to set. Civil society is at the heart of the building of society that we are doing, and of course we need meeting places. I go around the country all the time and meet with those you are talking about now, Ola Johansson, to get this even more confirmed, as a basis for the policy we are pursuing. Next week the budget will be presented.
i-963b7099e4580f86-353	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. I cannot say that it is gratifying to see that the Minister for Defence has broken the dismantling and destruction of the defence system, where the Alliance competed in having the leadership shirt. If you look at the strategic locations, of which Gotland is one – the Minister for Defence is aware of that – you can see that we are now building up the defence there again. What's the next step? What is the future? I am thinking of anti-aircraft, artillery systems, robots and military training, which are being introduced again. Should you recruit to it and train on Gotland? Can the Secretary of Defense develop a little bit about the future and step two and perhaps three?
i-963b7099e4580f86-357	Mr President, I would like to Today, the government has decided to change the regulation letter to the Swedish Armed Forces. There we advance the establishment of the combat group on Gotland. What is said in the decision that applies is that we will build up the battle group until 2018 with a mechanised company and a tank company, a total of about 300 people. It should be practiced with anti-aircraft capabilities and marine basement in the area. We will have the air force's presence at Visby base and have a high frequency of practice activities at all. That is what we have to wait in the coming years. Then it may not take a deeper imagination to see that once the defence committee is appointed next year this will be an issue that will be discussed there. Then there is every reason to take up some of the perspectives that Richtoff touches upon.
i-963b7099e4580f86-361	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear that. I know the Secretary of Defense can't talk about what anti-aircraft systems we're going to buy. At the same time, we are hoping that Swedish democrats will invest in the systems where the Swedish defence industry can be a part and where we have cutting-edge technology – such systems exist. I know the Secretary of Defense can't identify those systems. But with the defense minister's wisdom, I'm sure he's spreading truths around him even in that paragraph.
i-963b7099e4580f86-363	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the flattering words! The basic question was about Gotland. That island has a military strategic location that is important not only for Sweden. What happens on Gotland has direct bearings also in the Baltic countries and is important also for Finland. It was a great pleasure to be able to visit the Air Force exercise some time ago, where Finnish units participated in the practice activities on Gotland.
i-963b7099e4580f86-366	Mr President, I would like to First, I must show my appreciation and joy that the government has announced that there will be a new equality authority in Sweden. I am very pleased that there will be structural work to tackle gender equality. But that's not what I was going to ask you, because I already know. I was going to ask Ardalan Shekarabi a question about the location and presence of government agencies throughout the country. Sweden is based on the Swedish model, on community and on staying together throughout the country. Government presence is important for people. It is about both the importance of locating authorities but also being close, so that you can get service.
i-Kg8teEvKTcwhPfUyonLxBi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Monica Green, for the question! The wave of centralisation that has been going on in the Swedish state must be brought to an end, and it has now come to an end. The government said when the Swedish Tax Agency planned to close nine offices in smaller towns, including Lycksele and Ludvika. We said it's important that the state reinforces its presence. Now we have started work to get overall governance of the localisation of the authorities in order to strengthen the state presence around our country. We have also started work to relocate all or part of the authorities from Stockholm to other parts of the country. The first authority to be relocated is the E ‐ Health Agency, which will be moved from Stockholm to Kalmar. This will continue. We will see more relocations during the term of office. It is about strengthening the legitimacy of the Swedish state. The citizens of our country should feel and know that the Swedish state exists throughout our country and cares about our whole country.
i-963b7099e4580f86-371	Mr President, I would like to I think that sounds great. It is a step in the right direction, and it is welcome. It has certainly been necessary, because it has been a wave of centralisation. But is it possible to speed up the work? Is there any justification for deploying authorities for labour market reasons, or is it the most important that there is a good service throughout the country? What does the Minister say about that?
i-963b7099e4580f86-373	Mr President, I would like to These are really two issues. It is important to have good service throughout the country, so that citizens can get in touch with the state and the public sector. There's work going on. We also have experience and work with the service offices. Then it is also a question of redeploying authorities in order to ensure a better distribution of government jobs. There we have the report that we ordered from Statskontoret that we start from. Our goal is to match authorities that are suitable to relocate with cities that are in a position to receive these authorities.
i-963b7099e4580f86-375	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, and it concerns public procurement. Before Question Time today there have been some interpellation debates. We know it's tough for the municipalities. There's a lot of pressure out there. In the context of public procurement, there is also concern from local authorities in the country about how the new proposal will be when it comes out in reality. If you put the everyday life of the municipality in the centre and as an example take the excavation of a street to illustrate the whole thing, you can realize that there is not a follow-up of the labour force before or after but in place directly, on the street. Then I would like to ask the Government whether he does not believe that there is a heavy burden that we are putting on the municipalities, also in the midst of a strained situation, to use resources on the ground for this.
i-C2nFJQntK3WLLV8a4PxjuF	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! There is a great deal that we must do in terms of the development of the public market. We must ensure that we have better follow-up. It is a work that is ongoing and that the government has intensified, with the creation of the Procurement Authority and their work on follow-up methods. We need to get rid of the wage dumping. The Government intends to work on this issue on a broad front. We have put forward the proposal to make it mandatory to make requirements at minimum levels, in order to have the right conditions. This issue is handled by the Riksdag. We believe that this makes it easier for the municipalities, because, as it is now, the municipalities must find their own models. We know that many Swedish municipalities have created their own models, such as the Vita job model and other models that are being discussed. We need a national regulatory framework that gives municipalities security and an authority that makes it easier for municipalities but also for suppliers, because companies need to be able to get support on procurement issues. It is therefore important that the Procurement Authority has been given the task of providing services to both contracting authorities and suppliers and potential tenderers.
i-963b7099e4580f86-382	Mr President, I would like to Follow-up is A and O. But precisely the approach of the wording chosen by the government – which leads to such great difficulties in application – means that it becomes very costly and time-consuming and creates a huge workload. I do not think this is the way to go, and I wonder whether the Government really means it.
i-963b7099e4580f86-383	Mr President, I would like to There are many different methods that can be used in the follow-up work. One thing we are looking at is how we can better coordinate follow-up in order to put pressure on the costs of follow-up but above all make it easier for suppliers. The clearer the legislation, the easier it will be for contracting authorities and suppliers. The more abstract the legislation is and the more we pass on questions of interpretation to municipalities, the more difficult it will be for contracting authorities. The impact will be the worst for those suppliers who want to be part of the public.
i-963b7099e4580f86-386	Mr President, I would like to I, too, have a question for the Secretary of State, Shekarabi. Today, some sixty government agencies have legislative requirements to draw up interim reports. The Swedish National Audit Office did a review of this, which was published this summer. They found that the requirement is not appropriate. The conclusion is that the benefits of the interim reports are less than the cost and that the benefits are limited for the government, the authorities themselves and the Swedish National Audit Office. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government: do you intend to take forward the recommendations and abolish the requirement for the thigh reports for the approximately 60 authorities that currently have that requirement?
i-963b7099e4580f86-388	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Rasmus Ling! It is a very important issue, about the administrative burdens that we have on our administrative authorities. The government has started a major work within the framework of the confidence reform, which the Prime Minister touched upon in the Government Declaration. Statskontoret has been tasked with identifying the time thieves in the public sector, so that the government has the opportunity to eliminate those time thieves who are not legitimate. We have also started work in the Trust Delegation, which will work on developing governance models beyond New Public Management, where the aim is to allow the professions in the public sector to be professional. There are several proposals that are now being discussed that Statskontoret has presented. We are studying these proposals. The objective is to reduce the administrative burden in the public sector. Above all, it is a question of giving more room for manoeuvre to the professions in the public sector so that they can spend more of their time on their core business. Then we also need to work to reduce reporting requirements and focus on what is relevant.
i-963b7099e4580f86-391	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Shekarabi for his reply. A great deal has happened since 1997 when decisions were taken on this legal requirement. Today, activities are moving so much faster, and we need to follow up in a completely different way and take action much faster than half-yearly ones. Removing such a requirement would reduce jobs and save money.
i-963b7099e4580f86-393	Mr President, I would like to Just as Rasmus Ling describes, administration costs. Illegal demands for reporting costs money and steals time from the professions. That is why we will work to reduce the administrative burden. The government must, of course, assume its responsibilities. The Riksdag must also do so when we decide on laws.
i-963b7099e4580f86-395	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. No one could have escaped the media's reporting on the events of the Youth Leagues of Social Democrats where whites were not welcome. The Youth League of a government party excluded people based on the skin color of people. Does the Minister for Democracy believe that it is compatible with democratic values that racist events are organised by parts of the party and are openly sanctioned by being held at party headquarters and also sanctioned by public funds?
i-963b7099e4580f86-398	Mr President, I would like to As Minister of Culture and Democracy, I have no specific views on how different independent organisations choose to organise their activities. I think they're perfectly capable of deciding for themselves how they want it. But in a wider perspective, it is incredibly important for me to constantly meet people in conversations, no matter who they are, no matter where they come from and whether they have widely different opinions compared to what I have. In this way, the Member of Parliament and I have met and discussed several times. We bump and wet our opinions. For me, it is absolutely central to the democratic processes that we meet on democratic terms. But it is not up to the Swedish government to dictate the conditions for free civil society in our country. In this way, our union life has grown strong and is now one of the strongest in the world. It is because many flowers are allowed to bloom and because you organize yourself as our women's movements are strong and because you have also partly chosen to have your own meetings to gather and be strong together.
i-963b7099e4580f86-400	Mr President, I would like to In my ears, it sounds like you, Alice Bah Kuhnke, find this acceptable. My supplementary question is: what do you want to do to ensure that state funds go to organisations working on the basis of democratic principles?
i-963b7099e4580f86-402	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for this question. In this regard, I intend to do a lot and have done a great deal. It is entirely in the government's policy to ensure that the tax money that goes to the important civil society in our country should also go to the right things. They should go to promoting our democracy, they should go to working for the equal value of all people and they should go to providing a diversity of perspectives so that we can move borders, challenge norms and become more, become better and become people. I will continue to work for that.
i-963b7099e4580f86-404	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well thanks to the boom that is currently taking place. At the same time, the situation remains tough for those who are far from the labour market. The unemployment rate of foreign born children is over 21 per cent. The Minister for Labour and Establishment said in the media as late as 25 August that it is the government's policy to reduce unemployment. Now we can read that we have a policy that has caused unemployment to fall sharply, that the employment rate is record high and that the government's active employment policy is the difference. The truth is that of the 32 000 trainee jobs it has become just under 200, and of the 20 000 extra posts it has become about 1 000.
i-963b7099e4580f86-408	Mr President, I would like to We have a strong economic climate, but we also have a government that is pursuing a policy that ensures that we get the most out of this economic cycle. We've turned politics around. Cuts and tax cuts are over. Let's make some investments. The old government conducted 57 studies on housing policy. This year, 57 000 new homes will be built. The old government took resources out of school. There were fewer employees in welfare. This government provides resources for welfare. We have increased the number of employees in school by 13 000. We make investments in infrastructure, in broadband, in the conversion of Sweden and large investments in education. This is the right policy in this economic situation. This has so far resulted in 120,000 new jobs.
i-963b7099e4580f86-410	Mr President, I would like to Much of what the Minister for Employment says is certainly true. But the fact remains that unemployment is rising among people born abroad and is close to 22%. Many of the new arrivals have not been trained. More simple jobs, more apprenticeships and many efforts are needed to get people to work quickly. Here we mean that there is no effort. Therefore, I ask again: Which of these job ventures is it that would have given more jobs?
i-963b7099e4580f86-412	Mr President, I would like to I have just answered that question, and I am not going to repeat what I have said. It is true that we have many new arrivals, and they are of course born in another country. They've come here as refugees, and they've been granted a residence permit. They will be registered at Arbetsförmedlingen from the first day. That's absolutely right. We're gonna focus on work from day one. But to be honest, in principle, 100% is then unemployed on the first day. It takes some time to get into the Swedish labour market. It's taking too long, I think. My goal is to normally be able to get to work or in education within two years. I know that this is an ambitious objective.
i-963b7099e4580f86-416	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. In recent months, the security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region has deteriorated, mainly due to increased activity from the Russian side. In the days came the news of Gotland. Last week, the Minister for Defence and Foreign Affairs presented what they described as the keys to securing Swedish security. It is a question of military freedom of alliance, strengthening defence and deepening international cooperation. I would like the Minister for Defence to tell us a little bit about what the deepening cooperation line really means and how it leads to greater stability.
i-963b7099e4580f86-419	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The military freedom of alliance guarantees the stability of our region. It does not lead to any sharp caste or rapid changes in the doctrine of security policy. What happens in concrete terms when we cooperate with other countries is that the marine, aircraft and army practice together. We also have material cooperation with some countries, we have a comprehensive exchange of information, we have research cooperation with some countries, we have interoperability with some countries, and we have also carried out international operations together. There is a wide range of agreements here. The Swedish-Finnish agreement is the longest. We also look beyond peacetime conditions. It is also about Poland. We have joined Stratcom in Riga, we have joined Cybercenter in Tallinn, and we have a 53-point program with the UK. So we're working on a very broad field. This builds a security network around Sweden and raises the threshold and increases military capabilities. But we are not changing the doctrine of security policy.
i-963b7099e4580f86-421	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for that answer. However, in view of the concern that many may have with the information that has now come about Gotland, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence if he sees any further action in the near future that he believes will be necessary.
i-963b7099e4580f86-422	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we must constantly work very actively on security policy and defence policy. This means continuously carrying out exercise activities so that we increase the military capability and competence. Increased military capability is the way to build thresholds. We do this together with others, but also by investing in national defence and now investing in exercises and different types of weapons systems.
i-963b7099e4580f86-424	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister Ylva Johansson. Growth is increasing – we are in a boom – and unemployment is falling. At the same time, labour shortages are reported. You can't get the right staff to hire. The manager of the Entrepreneurs in Örebro County, Kaisa Edenvik, went out the other day and said that there are problems with the match. Matching has been going on for several years but is accelerating now. My question to the government and the Government is what the government is doing to make the matching of the labour market more successful.
i-963b7099e4580f86-427	Mr President, I would like to It is quite correct that Eva-Lena Jansson describes; we have great challenges when it comes to lack of skilled labour. Many employers demand staff they can't find. In the latest Small Business Survey – we know that many of the new jobs come just in smaller companies – four out of ten say they have had to turn down an order. The main reason is that they have not got the right workforce. This is a major challenge. That is why the government is investing heavily in education and training in the regular system, and we are redeploying and modernising labour market training. We switch the whole of Arbetsförmedlingen to work more towards employers' needs and more with matching. There is an enormous change that is currently taking place where special business advisors are being employed around the labour market. Only the day before yesterday, the Prime Minister also announced in the Government Declaration that he is now inviting the social partners to hold joint talks on how we can address the major skills supply problems by industry. We will have to work in several areas.
i-963b7099e4580f86-430	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I also think that Arbetsförmedlingen must be given better tools to be able to work with matching, meet the entrepreneurs and see their needs. Can the Government say anything about this work in relation to the Employment Service, how to reform it and improve its ability to meet the matching problems in the labour market?
i-963b7099e4580f86-431	Mr President, I would like to Arbetsförmedlingen is changing its entire organisation to work with a focus on meeting employers' needs. It has also contributed SEK 250 million in particular to recruit so-called business advisors who have special skills in terms of the sector's supply of skills to employers' needs. Special employers' offices are now being set up, which also have the specific skills. I would also like to point out what has been presented today in a debate article on opening the Platsbanken to other players as well.
i-963b7099e4580f86-433	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a leading country in many areas, not least in terms of gender equality. But there's more to be done. The labour market is segregated, and we see unfair wages. We see an increase in mental illness, mainly among women. We see an increase in sick leave, including among women. We see men's violence against women. There is a need for strong proposals here, but I think they are lacking. It's empty. What's the government doing? Yes, a memorandum is sent out – it has been consulted – on the equal distribution on company boards. The memorandum proposes an amendment to the Companies Act: 40 per cent of the Board members must be of each sex. Otherwise you will get a fine in 2019.
i-963b7099e4580f86-436	Mr President, I would like to You have to be moderate enough not to see what the government is doing when it comes to gender equality. The whole policy has been changed in every part since we had a feminist government. We now have a feminist budgeting in every part of the budget bill. We have changed the assignments to a wide range of agencies in order for them to work actively with gender equality. For example, in my own field, Arbetsförmedlingen has been given back the task of working for a less gender-segregated labour market. We are making active contributions to women's work environment, and we are now reversing the development of ostensibly sick leave that we took over from the old government. We have published today that a new equality authority will be set up. On point by point, we are strengthening the position of women, and we are seeing an active development in which women's employment and income are increasing. It also needs to look at company boards, where business – despite high ambitions – does not live up to their own goals.
i-963b7099e4580f86-439	Mr President, I would like to I did not get an answer to the question why the government is putting forward this proposal on company boards. I think the proposal should be rejected. It violates property rights, it's sticky and it's unserious. The government should, as I said, address gender equality issues that affect women in exclusion. This applies to women with ordinary jobs and income and the problems they face in their everyday lives. My question is: when will the draft Parliament come so that I can vote against it?
i-963b7099e4580f86-441	Mr President, I would like to The government is making extensive efforts, for example, for single parents, female pensioners and women who are on sick leave. There is no lack of proposals, as in the old days. We are now making efforts to promote gender equality. For many years now, there has been a code of conduct for companies registered on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. It states that a gender balance should be sought on company boards. It was a voluntary way to get to this. Did something happen? Did gender balance have been achieved? No. That's why there's a bill coming.
i-963b7099e4580f86-444	Mr President, I would like to I turn to the Minister for Culture and Democracy, and I would like to highlight the cultural and creative industries. It includes fashion, design, art, media, games and all that. These industries are job- and growth-creating, and they have ingredients such as diversity, equality and entrepreneurship to take on. It is also about creating the conditions for each person's ability and development opportunities, regardless of origin or economic background. In addition to the purely creative values, these branches are also important when it comes to strengthening common Swedish competitiveness. In this context, I can highlight what is happening in my home county, Region Skåne, where a specific regional action plan for these creative industries has been developed in consultation with municipalities, companies and organisations. It is based on this very point of interaction.
i-963b7099e4580f86-448	Mr President, I would like to I thank Per-Per-Arne Håkansson for the question and for the opportunity. First of all, I would like to say that I am impressed by the work done in Region Skåne. During my travels around the country during the two years I have now been a minister, I have met with fantastic good, purposeful and strategic work, where the local community sees the possibility of cultural and creative industries. I want to say that we need to do more. Now Minister Damberg and I have a work going on together where we look at this and have given the authorities the task of working out models and tools so that we can really get a spin on this in our country. There is money to be made here, people to engage and cultural areas to develop. As the Member of Parliament said, it is about film, art, music, design and more. We need to be many also in the Swedish parliament who are involved in the matter, because there is potential here.
i-963b7099e4580f86-451	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I thank you for the very forward-looking and encouraging answer. Sweden is at the top when it comes to countries' creativity in international measurements and so on, but the competition is sharp. We may be able to further screw it up to improve opportunities for, for example, solo entrepreneurs and others. There are also large companies in this area where there is potential for development. How does the Minister for Culture view further collaboration and development opportunities? I understand they're good.
i-963b7099e4580f86-453	Mr President, I would like to Yes, exactly-- the conditions are good. In the export strategy the government has presented Team Sweden KKN has been formed. It is a tool to further promote exports from Swedish cultural and creative industries. I believe, however, that we need to work together more. We need to see, both locally and regionally and from the state side, how we can get even more spin on this business. It is about all the young people whose desire we now awaken in a broader cultural school should be able to both enjoy themselves and have a future there.
i-963b7099e4580f86-456	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister for Culture and Democracy is still in the speaker's seat, because my question goes to her. I am deeply concerned about the media situation in the country, not least for our newspapers, our morning newspapers. Hardly a day goes by without hearing that newspapers are fighting for their survival. At the same time, high-quality journalism and news reporting are of great importance to our democracy, and I myself think it is important that we all read a morning newspaper.
i-963b7099e4580f86-459	Mr President, I would like to The media policy issue is one of our major issues to deal with, and it should have been dealt with a long time ago. It is no news that many of our media are currently going through a steel bath. These are business models that are out of play or at least shaken. That is why we have acted from day one. We set up an investigation, and in a few weeks' time I will receive concrete proposals on how the new state aid to the free press should look like. In addition, the Government has passed a bill in the Riksdag that involves changes in existing pre-support, so that we at least pump out the funds that are there. Much more needs to be done, however, and many actors need to shoulder their responsibilities. I will not present new business models, but I will try to find proposals that strengthen the local presence of journalism from a democratic perspective.
i-963b7099e4580f86-462	Mr President, I would like to It sounds good, and it also goes very fast. Does the Government understand that the directives for the investigation capture this rapid development? I have full respect for the fact that the Government can't say anything about the outcome, but does it feel like the investigation is catching the problem we're facing?
i-963b7099e4580f86-463	Mr President, I would like to Yes! The directives capture the challenge. I was eager to put this investigation in place, because I knew even before the Prime Minister called and I was appointed Minister of State that we would need these concrete proposals. I therefore have great expectations of the proposals I will receive in a few weeks' time. We will have to work hard to get a new, modern pre-support in place in Sweden as soon as possible. The pre-support that the media have today developed in the 1970s. That is not acceptable.
i-963b7099e4580f86-464	That concludes Question Time for the week. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-963b7099e4580f86-465	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. That was a long answer, almost four minutes. It contained about 4,000 characters, i.e. two A4 pages, which is a very long way to be an interpellation response. But I don't have any answers to my questions! Nowhere was the answer to what I asked. The origin of this was that on 21 April I listened to Question Time where the Government was asked about regionalisation. The Government then replied that our driving through this change is important – not because the government wants it, but because there are requests from those who work in healthcare and have knowledge of the challenges of healthcare. I then put a written question to the Government asking what is meant by the need for new regional classifications for staff, those working in the health care sector. Then the answer came... listen and be amazed! - that SKL wants it. There are probably some within SKL who work in health care and is a leisure politician. SKL, however, consists of politicians and not of ordinary people. There are no nurses, nurses or – as I do – biomedical analysts. There's no one there to say you want a regional division. Just now in Question Time, when Lotta Finstorp asked the question, the Government replied that this is good for decentralisation and regionalisation. Then I wonder: How can a region, from Sveg to Kiruna, mean decentralisation? How does it get closer to the inhabitants? How does health care improve? It's the health care that's essentially about. Public transport is important, and there are some other regional issues, but it is mainly health care. How does the health care for Mrs Andersson in Junsele get better because someone in Gällivare sits and decides something? There will be a little lack of democracy and you will be far removed from the inhabitants. One also gets very far away from the politicians if we are now to have a Region Norrland, which has been proposed. No number has been set for the size of the regional parliament, but there is talk of 149 seats. I wouldn't think every place would have a presence. And where do you place a regional parliament? How do you get it all done? Arlanda sounds reasonable, because this is the only way to get from Sveg, for example, to where the regional parliament ends up – you fight between the different parts of Norrland. Sundsvall wants it, as do Härnösand and Umeå. Perhaps we should put it in Sollefteå, which is in the hinterland and would need some support and help? I also asked the Government about the broad popular anchoring, and got the answer that they had been out and talked to municipalities and county councils. The people there are certainly elected, but if you make such a huge change and redraw both the political and geographical map – which has looked like this since the 17th century – you should ask the people: What do you think about this? I ask the Minister: How does it benefit the inhabitants of Västernorrland, Jämtland, Västerbotten and Norrbotten to become one large region where decisions are made very far from the citizens?
i-963b7099e4580f86-473	Mr President, I would like to The government persists in its plan to regionalise Sweden, regardless of what the people think locally and in some cases on completely incorrect grounds, as has been put forward here during Question Time and the debate. I asked how people's views were taken into account. Region Halland has had the view that it wants to keep Halland completely. Region Halland had a Sifo survey carried out and asked the Swedish people what it thought about big regi-oner. In Halland, six out of ten thought it was a bad idea. Less than two out of ten thought it was a pretty good idea. It looked the same in much of the country. The critical citizens were more than the positive ones in 19 out of 21 counties. Halland's business sector also strongly criticises the proposal. These are, of course, the challenges of health care – there are many other things we can do – but it is also about the regions having a growth responsibility towards their citizens and businesses. There is political agreement among all parties in Region Halland to keep Halland completely. The same applies to municipalities from north to south. We in Halland are humbled by the challenges of the future at parliamentary, regional and municipal level, but we think that Halland contributes best to Sweden's development by continuing to be a region. Halland has a fantastic and unique geographical location between Västra Götaland, Skåne and Småland, and we have collaborations with all the municipalities and regions. We believe that there is no correlation between size and results, because one should not think that the organisational capacity of the minus county will be much better if one merges them. Size doesn't solve everything, so to speak. I also miss the bottom-up perspective, which I've talked about here before. This is quickly investigated, and I do not think it is clear and firmly established. The biggest contribution in my interpellation is: How does the Government justify the lack of the people's views? How do you share them? And what do you do to improve anchoring? How do we do, if we make mergers into large regions, so as not to destroy working partnerships that exist today throughout Halland, from north to south?
i-963b7099e4580f86-481	Mr President, I would like to The Government of Shekarabi has mentioned in various contexts that this would be a reform for the sake of health care, or at least partly for the sake of health care. But I think he will then confuse what is good, namely what is mentioned in Måns Rosén's study on economies of scale in the highly specialised care, with who are the principals and how to organize themselves. There is no evidence that large regions in Sweden would have a qualitatively better health care than the small regions have. A national patient survey is conducted annually by SKL. Each year the small regions have the best results. In almost every question Halland, Jönköping, Kronoberg, Kalmar and Östergötland top the quality results. Patients have been asked how they experience care. They feel that they receive more equal care in these small regions than in the large ones. When it comes to highly specialised care, it is not that in Tidaholm you get a better high-specialised care than in Åseda, which is not part of a large region. You also do not get a better high-specialized care if you are a resident of Skövde, which is part of Västra Götaland, than you get in Växjö. So even there health care is not improved by the size of the region, rather it is the individual clinic that affects the quality of care. Another area I would like to mention is cooperation with the municipalities. Today, healthcare is not just something carried out by county councils and regions, but there is also a lot of healthcare in the municipalities. In a small region such as Halland or Kronoberg, where we have six or eight municipalities to have dialogue with, it is much easier to get a good quality. We have in Kronoberg County, my home county, for example the country's best results when it comes to finished patients getting a place in home health care. Finally, Mr President, I think that this proposal is benevolent, but at least it is not in health care that good results are achieved.
i-963b7099e4580f86-486	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for taking the time to come to Parliament. When the government started this rather large and revolutionary process, I think the interest of the public was quite low, but there were at least one or other county council politicians who felt excited. Now, at least, issues relating to the organisation and involvement of the state in the field of highly specialised health care, how we can better facilitate the labour market, growth and work commuting, can be discussed, and perhaps even, regardless of party colours and attitudes on the subject, can lead to something constructive. Since then, however, the process has been lined by a large number of problems that the government needs to address. Mr President, I would like to When the directives arrived, the investigation was set up and the Division Committee started its work, it was said that functional labour market regions would guide the proposal it would then make. Now we see the proposal put forward by the Division Committee which takes zero account of functional labour market regions. The functional connection between Idre and Flen is non-existent. When you started the work you said that you would not drive over any county and force any county in 2019 against their will, but in 2023 the goal plan was to work on. But if anyone wanted to go ahead, that would be possible. In the proposed Svealand region, five counties say yes and one county, Sörmland, says no. Yet the Division Committee proposes to force Sörmland into the Svealand region. During Question Time, less than half an hour ago, the Government said that one of the main points of this is to decentralise more and ensure that power is put out in the regions rather than the state cluttering in things, such as how health care should work. The Government Wikström, on the other hand, announces that the Government's agenda is to limit the number of emergency hospitals and close a number of emergency hospitals. It doesn't make any sense. The government is also talking about the need for a broad anchoring of this whole process. Yet the opinion polls that have been carried out do not take on board, where among other things a large majority of the visitors say no to the proposal and to the timetable. You take the whole process during a summer referral. The proposal will be presented around midsummer and the referee should be in October, which means that a number of municipal and county councils will not have the chance to even deal with the issue in democratic order within the time frame. And it is said that this should be used to strengthen democracy! Regional change has a real impact on people's everyday lives. Today, Sörmland has a well-functioning healthcare cooperation in a seven-country relationship that includes Värmland in addition to the Svealand region. In addition, we have well-designed public transport cooperation throughout Mälardalen, including Östergötland, to ensure that it works in a way that makes it reasonable for people. When you break some structure because you want to redraw a map, when you don't even follow the directives you say you are working on, then it becomes very difficult to work as a Member of Parliament for an anchoring of the proposal. Instead, the picture is set by a government that wants to force this merger over people's heads. I do not think that is reasonable and, above all, it is boring. Changes are needed, not least in the organization of the state. The county administrative boards need to be reorganised. So why not slow down in this situation, where the directives have been dropped, the people say no and the government does not even seem to agree on the agenda? Why not seek a broad agreement? Why not discuss this? Why not wait with the 2019 timetable and try to make sure that we land in letting the will of the people from below be guiding?
i-GzunoYPsmA4tuwbS1dnyzx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you Lena Asplund, Erik Bengtzboe, Jenny Petersson and Roland Gustbée for their contributions on this important issue concerning the structure of the public sector! Mr President, I would like to When I listen to the Members of Parliament participating in this debate, I wonder whether the moderate parliamentary group has managed to make a trip a few weeks ahead, because so far I have not received any referrals from any of the county councils. The referral deadline is 6 October. Most county councils and municipalities have still not made formal decisions with positions. When the referrals are received by the Government Office, we will study them and we will be based on the objectives and principles that we have expressed in the Comitology Directive to the Division Committee. We will not have a premature process. We know that this issue has been discussed for a long time. We know that we have serious challenges in health care, and I may be most concerned about that in this debate. It seems that there is no knowledge in the Moderate Parliamentary Group of what serious challenges we have in health care, not least in terms of health care funding. I wonder whether there would be a need for a debate on SKL's latest financial report, or whether we would have to study the cost development of health care and note that we need to discuss how we work with continuous structural changes in the public sector. Swedish public administration is effective because it has had the ability to constantly modernise and develop. Swedish public administration is effective because the starting point for organizational decisions has been that every crown wasted by the state, municipalities and county councils is a theft from the people. Then, with reference to structures created on the basis of the needs of the 1600s and 1700s, we cannot stop the necessary changes aimed at ensuring equivalence in health care. Mr President, I would like to I must admit that the tone towards local and county politicians worries me. These are people who are daily responsible for the operation of health care and social services in our country. We live in a country that has announced large parts of the welfare activities, and this has proven to be an effective and well-functioning model – the Swedish welfare model, the decentralised welfare model. In all honesty, I have never understood the moderate fear of the regional level. Mr President, I would like to I have great respect for the representatives of the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. I have great respect for those who work hard in the county councils every day. I also have great respect for those who make the decisions in Landstingssverige. That is why I intend to wait and study the respondents, not only from the representatives of the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, but also from professional organisations. Let us study how health professionals reason on this proposal before dismissing it! And let us be honest with the citizens! If you're against the regional level, admit it! Tell the citizens about this! But also tell us that this issue has been discussed since the end of the 60's!
i-963b7099e4580f86-503	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Shekarabi. But I still miss the answers to my questions. The government says he doesn't like the tone we have against county council and municipal politicians. But it's not about that. This is not about county council and municipal politicians. When we ask about popular anchoring, the Minister answers that they have been out and talked to municipal and county politicians. It has nothing to do with any tone, but it is about popular anchoring. We heard Jenny Petersson tell us about a Sifo survey and say that it was six out of ten in her region who thought that major regions were a bad idea. In the same Sifo survey, 60 per cent of those surveyed in northern Sweden were against a Great Northern Land. This is what I mean when I talk about popular anchoring. It has nothing to do with the local and county politicians, especially the municipal politicians, but it has to do with Mrs Andersson in Junsele. It has to do with people's uncertainty and fear of getting a very long way to health care. It is, as Minister Wikström says, perhaps so that it will be easier to close small emergency hospitals, because then you can sit somewhere else and make the decision and hide it at the large region level. And it's not about us being afraid of regions. It is a question of fear of huge regions. Where I and my constituents live, it is a region which, to the surface, would consist of half of Sweden. You might wonder how it makes something better. In the answer I received to my written question on regions, the Government said that this is good for quality and patient safety. Then I wonder: what does that have to do with regional enlargement? We already have our university hospitals. Upstairs in Norrland is Umeå University Hospital. There will be no change in it just because politics is lumped together into a large region where decisions come much further from the citizens. Up in my county, and especially in my municipality of Sollefteå, a major debate is now taking place on whether or not to be in the emergency hospital. I'm sure most people know that, because it's been taken up in the national media. Last summer, acute surgery and orthopaedics were closed. For six weeks it has been closed, and in the meantime there have been 25 - 30 deviation reports. There's been a lot of ambulance transportation. Several ambulances have been hired. Is that how it will work with our care in the future? I believe in close care where people live and are. It is about security for Mrs Andersson in Junsele, Mr Pettersson in Burträsk or someone else. It's about being as close as possible. Then the health centre has absolutely an important function. But it is not a question of highly specialised care, because it is already in our university hospitals today. The question is whether not really highly specialised care should perhaps exist in even fewer places, because it should probably not be carried out in too many places. This kind of care is not often demanded as an ordinary citizen. With luck you will never need that care, but some people need it occasionally, and then you might be able to travel to Uppsala or Lund, for example. This is partly about close popular anchoring and partly about security. It is certainly as Minister Wikström says, that it is about closing emergency hospitals. I do not think it is compatible with the Social Democrats' speech on solidarity, because then solidarity with certain parts of the country is lacking.
i-963b7099e4580f86-512	Mr President, I would like to I think Ardalan Shekarabi misunderstood me. I am in favour of a regionalisation of Sweden. I certainly think that more counties should become regions and that more should apply for it. But they're going to do it themselves, instead of the government putting a county in some region. I am absolutely in favour of regionalisation. That's a good thing. It sounded like Ardalan Shekarabi said that we Moderates would not understand that Swedish healthcare is facing several challenges. I myself sit on the Social Affairs Committee and can absolutely confirm that health care is facing major challenges. But you should keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. Swedish healthcare is at the top when comparing quality and cost-effectiveness. This is shown by SKL, to which the Government has referred several times, in its comparison of health care in the EU-15, excluding Greece plus Norway and the United States. This shows that we are still at the top, but have great challenges. The Committee of Responsibilities, to which Ardalan Shekarabi refers, believes that each region should have a regional hospital or institutionalised cooperation with a region that has it. That idea, I think, has passed the predate. The most costly and complex measures in healthcare are already concentrated in a few hospitals, and even the largest regions and county councils today need to cooperate across borders. Roland Gustbée was looking at comparisons that show that Jönköping, Kalmar, Kronoberg, Östergötland and Halland are at the top of different measurements, not the major regions. If that is what the Government thinks, then the major regions that we have today should be at the top, but that is not the case. There is no evidence that the quality of care, patient safety or efficiency requirements would increase for large county councils or regions. However, as a slipperyer, I think that cooperation is still required, both north with Västra Götaland and south with Skåne as well as internationally. It is patient data and patient safety that should guide. There may not be enough evidence for some operations even in Sweden. There we need to work together in the Nordic countries and with other countries. To say that, as a moderate, I am opposed to regionalisation is wrong. I am in favour of that. To say that I do not understand the health challenges is also directly wrong. I've asked you a question. I understand you're waiting for the referral. But in the meantime, I wonder: What is the Minister doing to improve, as Lena Asplund was concerned about, the popular anchoring before decisions on large regions are made? What will you do? That was one of my questions.
i-963b7099e4580f86-519	Mr President, I would like to I'm well aware of the health care economy. This is a challenge in many regions. However, there is nothing to indicate that it would be easier in the large regions, at least not in the rural, southern Sweden, in which I operate. Region Skåne has been affected with major economic problems as well as other smaller ones. Nevertheless, today we are in the better half of the cost of healthcare in the country. I have no problem having confidence in county politicians. It's the first time we've met. Last Sunday, I left the position as Vice-Chairman of the Swedish Health Board in Kronoberg County. I'm pretty much in the heart of a county council politician, and I have confidence in my colleagues there. That the referee has not come in, I can understand. The day before yesterday, our region made its decision. It was almost unanimous. Seven out of eight parties rejected a larger region. It was a party that wanted to keep a small door open, and it was the Green Party. The Minister's own party was also opposed in this case.
i-963b7099e4580f86-522	Mr President, I would like to The challenges are undoubtedly great. It is particularly important to meet the needs of highly specialised care. That is why we have regional cooperation and cooperate across county boundaries. This is also why we have national competence centres and university hospitals. That is something we should continue to develop. If we look at the large regions that are already merged, it may not be directly efficiency gains and an extremely well-functioning highly specialised care that characterises them as a result. The county administrative boards also need increased specialisation, and there is a need to make changes. That is why it is such a pity that this process is so hasty. The Minister says that it is not a premature process. At the same time, we have a situation in which the majority of county councils and municipal councils that do not even have time to meet before the consultation period expires. I meet county council and municipal politicians who feel run over and who say, "No one listens to us." We must, however, take this issue in Parliament. You're in charge anyway. It doesn't matter what we think. Is that the kind of signals you want to send to your own party friends around the country? Is that what you think is a well-mannered process that is not premature where voters do not feel neglected or run over? As the Minister points out, this issue has been discussed for a long time. But it is only now that there is a concrete proposal to move from words to actions and make changes. It is only now that there is a concrete proposal to analyse and see what consequences it will have. The proposals of the Division Committee have serious shortcomings, not least with regard to the democratic aspect. There is no analysis of how the wide gap between voters and elected representatives will affect the regions. Lena Asplund well explained that region Norrland will make up half of Sweden on the surface. How does it lead to decentralisation and proximity? How is it possible for people to be leisure politicians in that organisation at all? There is a risk that it will completely erode local democracy. It is refused to be seen and analysed. It's premature.
i-963b7099e4580f86-528	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for all the contributions from Members of Parliament. Mr President, I would like to When the Swedish government and parliament began to discuss the decentralisation of welfare in the late 60s, it was clear that in order to decentralise welfare activities, it was necessary to create more sustainable and robust municipalities. This led to the municipal reform. It may sound paradoxical, but it was the municipal reform that made it possible to decentralisation of welfare. Without sustainable and robust municipalities, decisions and activities could not be moved from the state level to the municipal level. Already then, the authorities assumed that in order to create municipal units that could carry out an effective and equivalent welfare activity, they needed to have a certain user base in the municipalities. The aim was for municipalities to have at least 8 000 inhabitants according to the conditions and the municipal commitment that existed at the time. As far as county councils are concerned, a county council reform was never carried out in Sweden despite the fact that health care has been expanded in recent decades and the public commitment in this area has been extended. In addition, public transport and regional development processes have also been regionalised and thus moved to the county council level. Unlike the rest of the country, however, the big cities and areas around the big cities have been given the opportunity to create larger regions. With a larger user base, you will be able to work with effective healthcare that is of high quality. We can stand and discuss this and think different things. But this question is well investigated. In various government investigations, we see that there are facts showing that we also need a certain user base in health care in order to guarantee high quality and equivalence throughout the country. That's not the basis for today's county council. That is one of the reasons why we believe that we need to work on regional reform and regionalisation in order to ensure the quality and equivalence of healthcare in the long term. During the process, the experience of comparable countries has also been studied. We have taken note of the Danish experience with the Danish regional reform. We have taken note of the experience from Norway with the healthcare regions in Norway. We are in close contact with our friends in Finland who are currently carrying out a regional reform in which responsibility for health care and social services is transferred from the municipalities to a new regional level. Experience from comparable countries shows that a larger user base means that units responsible for healthcare are better able to work with efficiency and to improve quality. This does not mean that regional reform in Sweden will solve all the challenges we have in healthcare, certainly not. I would like to emphasise that. We need to work on a wide range of structural reforms in the public sector. Above all, we must work to give the professions in health care the right conditions. This is why the work in the trust reform is an important part of the work to create an organisation and governance that will make healthcare services of equal quality and quality in the future. That is the background to regional reform. We will have to return to the specific questions after the consultation.
i-963b7099e4580f86-537	Mr President, I would like to I give up. I am not going to get an answer to my questions. The Government of Shekarabi says It's a word I don't like. For me, it is people of flesh and blood, such as us who stand here. It's not a user base. To say it is bureaucracy. It's people it's about. It is also about people when we talk about those who work in our health care. They're nurses, nurses, doctors and biomedical analysts. I have worked for over 20 years in healthcare as a biomedical analyst of which many years at Laboratory Medicine in Sollefteå. Never did we ever ask ourselves, saying: It will probably be better for us if those in charge come further from us. Then it was not called SKL, but then it was pure for the county council. Had my colleagues been asked what they are doing, they would have shrugged their shoulders and wondered. Instead, what you wanted was for decisions to get closer so that you can participate and influence your work situation properly. It is the same with the aspect of democracy, which Erik Bengtzboe so well talked about. How does it get better for leisure politicians? It doesn't get any better. It will be much more difficult to be a leisure politician in this region if you live in Sveg and are going to the place you now end up in, Umeå or somewhere else. The Government addresses Denmark's experience. If we put Denmark on the surface of Norrland, it will be a small plutt. There's too much distance. I would not have stood here and discussed the question of whether we had been talking about a region that had consisted of Västernorrland and Jämtland. Then it would have been reasonable distance. But a Great Northern Land does no good — no one at all.
i-963b7099e4580f86-542	Mr President, I would like to Ardalan Shekarabi talks about the 1960s and what led up to the municipal reform. Perhaps there should be another question in the future from my point of view: Why did they not look at the municipalities and start from a different perspective? As I said, I have great respect for the fact that you are waiting for the referral before taking a stand. I think anchoring is a good thing. I can only repeat what Halland thinks about this: six out of ten in Halland think this is a bad proposal. Fewer than two out of ten think it is a less good proposal. It looks about the same over large parts of the country. It worries me that when you have critical citizens you do not take the whole thing very seriously; in more than 19 out of 21 counties, the number of critical states is greater. I find it worrying, and I have never liked it when you come with a von-oben perspective. I look forward to your statement after the referral period has expired. We will continue to meet in this Chamber.
i-963b7099e4580f86-546	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, all the Members of Parliament who have participated in this debate! I have great respect for your views on this matter. This is not an easy question. However, there is no doubt that we need to take structural measures to ensure an equivalent quality of healthcare throughout the country. There may be different focusses on reform, but we are convinced that regionalisation of Sweden not only benefits health care but also contributes to sustainable and equal development throughout our country in other areas. I must admit that even after this debate I do not understand the moderate fear of regionalisation and the decentralised welfare model. We will have reason to continue this discussion. But it is important to remember one thing when it comes to the people of flesh and blood that Lena Asplund is talking about and that we both want to have the right to good healthcare: their health care is not better because we deny that we have limited resources and that we have a duty as politicians to make decisions that mean that we adapt the organisation and structure of the public sector to the needs of today's society so that we can use the resources as efficiently as possible. If we fail to do so, and if we get a development in which the public sector becomes inefficient, the citizens will not receive the high-quality healthcare to which they should be entitled. That is why an equivalent healthcare system that is close to the people and that is present with high availability throughout the country requires constant modernisation and structural changes. We must continue to discuss this.
i-963b7099e4580f86-549	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson has asked me when I and the government will take the relevant announcements into account and follow them up, as well as through what regulatory simplifications and incentives I and the government will ensure that more student housing is built. I believe, like Ola Johansson, that it is very important that there should be housing for those who want to study. Despite a general housing shortage, I think it looks hopeful when it comes to student housing. The total number of completed student dwellings for 2015 was nearly 2,400. In this year's housing market survey, municipalities estimate that 4,000 student apartments will be opened this year and 6,000 student apartments will be opened in 2017. Given that the student dwelling stock consists of about 86,000 dwellings, this is an important addition. The current building act can also be related to the fact that during the years 2008 – 2013, when we had a situation with very large youth litters that came into colleges, just under 500 student housing per year began. Right now, when the building rate of student housing is high, the age group of 19 to 24 year olds is decreasing for a few years to come according to SCB's population forecast. Although students are not a very homogeneous group, the majority of students in this particular age group are. Reduced youth litters lead to slightly lower demand for student housing. I shall now turn to the regulations. As late as July 2014, Boverket's building regulations, BBR, were amended with a focus on facilitating the construction of smaller dwellings intended for young people and students, among others. It is now possible to co-use areas for different functions in the home, allowing flexible planning solutions and smaller student housing without compromising accessibility. With the current regulations, it is possible to build student housing of 16 square metres. Boverket notes that the majority of student housing that has started since the change came into force is still 20 to 25 square metres, perhaps because these housing units are most sought after by students. Following the announcement of reduced accessibility requirements for student housing, the Government commissioned Boverket to investigate the consequences of exempting student housing from accessibility requirements. In the summer, Boverket submitted a report on the matter, which is now being prepared within the Government Office. Boverket has also been tasked with evaluating the noise regulation in connection with the announcement. Boverket will present an interim report on this until the end of the year. The government takes serious account of the large housing shortage that is now prevailing in large parts of the country and is therefore investing widely in measures to increase housing construction and make better use of the existing housing stock. In June, the government launched a 22-point programme to this end. The measures included in the programme include a review of Boverket's building regulations. These measures benefit everyone in the housing market, including students. The investment support previously announced for rental dwellings also includes housing for students. The support will be a clear incentive for student housing. Against this background, it is not currently up to us to come forward with proposals for further regulatory changes and additional incentives specifically for student housing.
i-963b7099e4580f86-556	Mr President, I would like to It is good that it was a rather multi-worded answer to my rather short questions. That is good because this is a topical issue, and it is important that it is highlighted not only now but all the time. Sweden's joint student unions, SFS, review the housing situation each year in the country's student cities before the start of the semester. Their report was published a few days ago, and in it they have highlighted in green color which cities can offer safe accommodation within a month. Safe housing means that it is a first-hand contract that lasts throughout the study period. Out of 33 studied study places, only 6 are approved, i.e. green. With yellow is marked which cities can offer accommodation but need a full semester to get it out. There are 16 cities, including Halmstad, located in my own constituency of Halland. The red municipalities are the ones that cannot offer accommodation throughout the autumn term, and they are now 11 in number. Among them are Gothenburg, and also Malmö, where Peter Eriksson's party colleagues in the Green Party rule. In Gothenburg you have to wait for up to four and a half years if you have planned to live next to Chalmers or the University of Gothenburg, for example. Of course, it is gratifying if it is true that more student housing is being started now than it did in 2015. But it is a reflection of the development with increased housing construction that has been going on since 2012. It took off since the alliance government abolished housing subsidies, worked systematically and profit-orientedly with regulatory simplifications and facilitated second-hand leasing. As SFS points out, it is still a major problem with green light cities to increase the number of study places even though the housing situation is red. Students must then worry about their housing situation rather than studying. In the worst case, they are forced to turn down their study place, become victims of rogue and black second-hand rentals or need to sleep at home with friends. The Minister of Housing is aware of the problems, and the answer does not surprise anyone. He's in good company with former minister. What I find sad is that this red-green minister does not take Parliament's announcement very seriously either. The Minister refers mainly to regulatory simplifications that were introduced during our time – those that make it possible to build student housing less than they needed to be before, i.e. 16 square metres and where you can co-use space, as he mentions. Otherwise, the Minister refers to assignments that Boverket has already received and which are now at the Government Office and are waiting to become sharp proposals for more housing for students. As far as noise is concerned, we obviously have to wait until the end of the year for the regulation to be implemented which is already under investigation by the Alliance Government but which was never decided upon and which means that student housing should also be allowed to be built in places where there may be noise levels of up to 65 decibels. In fact, Parliament has asked the government to implement that change. The question of when the notices will be met will not be answered. One message has been given by the Minister, and that is that there are no further proposals in the pipeline to improve the students' housing situation. I ask the question again: When can we expect the government to take seriously the student housing situation?
i-963b7099e4580f86-567	Mr President, I would like to The question was: When can we expect the government to take seriously the student housing situation? I think that is the real question to ask, so I thank you for it, Ola Johansson. It is quite obvious, if you listened to the answer I gave earlier, that it has happened since we changed the government in Sweden. The red - green government that we have today enjoyed during its short time in two years has been delighted with the fact that we are increasing housing construction significantly. It took off at about the same time as the previous government resigned. I think this is connected to several things. There has been a shortage of student housing for a long time, and I believe that those who have contributed to the fact that there is now finally a change, above all, are the student organisations themselves. I think it was good that Ola Johansson took SFS as an example of that. They have worked purposefully and for a long time to point out those who are able to assume their housing responsibilities and those who do not. Now it has borne fruit, but it is also about the fact that we actually have politicians out in the municipalities that we are dealing with, which have now finally in recent years become more involved in these issues and produce student housing. Akademiska Hus, which is a government building producer, also produces student housing to a much greater extent than before. It is possible to compare this year's 4 000 dwellings started with 500 a few years ago when the real boom was and the number of young students who came to universities and colleges increased sharply. Next year, we'll start 6,000 homes. So we can talk about a tenfold increase in the last few years compared to the years when this change should have been made but instead avoided. If you go into these issues in more detail, it is also right that some municipalities handle this better and manage it. Some don't. This also applies to housing production in general and not only to student housing. Therefore, I see it as an important task for me and for the government to work more closely with the municipalities in the future – in the near future and during this term of office – to ensure that the experience and knowledge that has been created in the municipalities that are good at building housing and in planning and preparedness in this area is passed on to the others. It is an important part of my job today to work closely with the municipalities that are good at this so that knowledge can be disseminated and that those municipalities also benefit in different ways. That is why we have introduced the so-called municipal bonus and also have investment aid for student housing.
i-963b7099e4580f86-573	Mr President, I would like to That's a little bit of the answer you'd expect. I hope that the Minister is clear that the change that took place with increased housing construction, which in itself is insufficient, was a trend that started back in 2012. They entered a state of prosperity and low interest rates, which means that more is being built. It is gratifying, but more is needed. The fact that I have just highlighted the SFS in this context is, as the Minister says, because of their hard work. Then there are the student housing companies that deliver the small apartments of 16 square meters that the Alliance made possible. I have visited them myself in Lund, and this is what the students are asking for – somewhere to live on my own. Now, of course, it is not only municipalities that are to be accused, but the companies, the industry, have their responsibilities. But we also have a responsibility in politics because we create the conditions. This is the kind of housing policy debate that I also question. The Minister mentioned the investment aid. A year and a half after it was said that such a proposal would be presented, there is still no regulatory framework in place. You ruled with the Alliance's budget for the whole of 2015, to be acknowledged. But then you must have had plenty of time to design this support. Why, then, is there no support to seek, the curious one wonders. The industry doesn't ask for this. You don't want that kind of support. SFS is tough in its judgment of politics both locally and nationally. We blame each other, they say. The Minister used the word quickfix in a television debate. He is not alone in using that word in this context. But I think what we're seeing isn't a fix, it's a mix of trix. 22 points have been presented by the government with a revision of the building rules as the main proposal. These are mostly uncontroversial proposals. It is a thin layer over a housing market that would have to be fundamentally reformed, which is what we are calling for. We need a thorough review of taxes to buy, own and sell their homes. We need something that promotes mobility, creates migration chains and space for young families and students to find housing. We must dare to recognise – even if it annoys some – that we have a rental market that does not work. Thresholds are high, and the driving forces for reshaping tenant-ownership apartments are stronger than for new production. We need to continue to change the regulations, not least the Planning and Construction Act, so that more decisions can be made locally and so that the opportunity is given to go alongside lengthy planning processes. Construction is increasing. Hopefully, the students will be able to take part in this development. The government's face is saved by demographics in the next few years. Maybe it's good for the government. But students who lack housing still wonder what the government intends to do. I wonder, too. When we talk about students and housing, I would like to emphasise what I hear from municipalities, construction industry and authorities. The Minister has also been aware of this, namely that skills shortages lurk around the corner. To solve that, we need the training places. We need young people to go to those courses. We also need housing for those who apply for architectural training or who want to become surveyors or construction engineers. We need to upgrade vocational training. Perhaps it is a deviation from the subject, Mr President. But it's about study places and student housing. Mr President, I would like to I don't have an ambition. I'm missing a clear line. The lack of student housing is only a symptom of shortcomings in the entire housing market.
i-963b7099e4580f86-584	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson lacks ambition. I'll tell you what it is. It is to ensure that housing will be built in Sweden, so that we solve the housing shortage that exists. It's not a small challenge. For 20 years we have built less than what was needed to meet population growth, to manage to provide housing, shelter, for all those who come to Sweden and for all young people who grow up and want their own housing. It has been a growing problem for a very long time. During that period, we have produced an average of 25 000 homes per year. There should have been a lot more. This is the background to Boverket's latest forecast, which shows that we would have to build 710 000 homes by 2025. But unlike what happened under the previous governments, Sweden is actually building it now. More is being built in Sweden now than has been built over 40 years. I am very happy and proud to be able to say that Sweden actually works. We are not stuck in a situation where we are unable to deal with the problems. Now we're building more than a long time. There are several reasons for this. We have extremely low interest rates. It contributes to investment in the country. But municipalities, which have housing responsibility, also take more responsibility than before. And the government has shown, to a greater extent than in the past, that we think it should be built, that it needs to be built and that we are prepared to invest in increasing the building of common state resources. I think that direction, that ambition, has been very important for the municipalities to dare to invest and for the companies to dare to believe that this is the right time to invest and build. There's a difference. I think that many people who listen to the debate on housing issues, the housing crisis and the housing shortage can easily get a little confused. There are many different arguments and reasons that are raised. When I took up office, only a few months ago, the main arguments of the opposition were that there were major problems with the regulations, that there were too many appeals, that the construction processes took too long, that the detailed plans took too long and that the municipalities did not stand up. They said: This is a huge crisis. Now the government has made proper decisions to change that situation. Me and Magdalena Andersson held a press conference at Midsummer. We will reduce time, increase efficiency and reduce the cost of housing construction. But then the debate is moving in a different direction. Now there are other problems to be dealt with instead. I understand that. It is clear that when we do something about it, we must continue to argue in a different direction.
i-963b7099e4580f86-591	Mr President, I would like to It's in the closing statement that you should reflect freely. The Center Party believes in municipal self-government. The government's view that the municipalities are now assuming their responsibilities is gratifying. The policy that we strive for all the time is that the governments should not point with all their hands and say: Here you will build this and so many homes. I support the idea that it should be a municipal decision. But one of the 22 points presented by the government is to force the municipalities to build housing. I don't think that's the way to go. However, two thirds are uncontroversial. They could easily pass the Riksdag. I dare to say that a handful of the proposals are what the Alliance has either pushed ahead in the past and tried to get through, but where we have got the majority of Parliament, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, against us or what has been included in our announcements. I welcome the fact that the government has put forward proposals that have been prepared and examined in the past on its list. It is true that, at the time I started my career as a housing politician at national level, the building levels were too low. This hangs, as the Minister says, from the time when we relied on subsidies. The twitchiness of various forms of investment aid for the construction industry is the great disease with which we still live. It is also in danger of being revived by the planned introduction of such investment aid. The representative of the red side at the time said that the need was 40,000 student housing. Now the need is 90 000. Yes, we have a great task ahead of us.
i-963b7099e4580f86-596	Mr President, I would like to We have a major task ahead of us, but we are no longer starting from scratch. Now Sweden is actually on the move. The construction companies are in full swing. Rather, the new situation means that we have to start by looking at what Ola Johansson mentioned in her previous speech, namely: Are we able to deal with labour issues and skills? Are there administrators out in the municipalities who can handle the rapid increase in cases? Are there people at Lantmäteriet? It is not always that you can handle these things. Are there engineers, specialists and craftsmen who make us meet the housing challenge? That is the main issue, and that is why I have appointed two coordinators to come up with proposals on how to deal with competence issues in the long term. They will also make proposals in the short term before Christmas. Ola Johansson says: True, the 22-point programme contains many questions and points, but these are uncontroversial proposals. Yes, but it is good if we put forward proposals that have the opportunity to go through in Parliament. They're not done. You need to do things that we in many cases agree on in order to reduce the times of the planning period, in order to get building permits faster, in order for the County Administrative Board to prioritise building and housing supply. Municipalities should be able to delegate more decisions. There are lots of things that you and I agree on. It is a good thing that these matters come to Parliament so that we can make decisions. We should not be sorry about that, but we should be pleased that we do not have to argue about all the proposals that can make things better.
