i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-4	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a motion report dealing with motions on countries in the Middle East and North Africa. The unrest, instability and conflicts that characterise the region affect us all, including in Sweden. When the Arab spring swept over the region in 2011, hopes for more democracy and more freedom were sparked in the countries where the people made their voices heard. Unfortunately, we can now see that hopes have not been met, possibly with the exception of Tunisia. In addition to Tunisia, the flashes of light are few. Several states are balancing on the verge of disintegration. We see deep internal divisions that go on many leads. It characterizes Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen. External actors fuel the conflicts and make the situation even more complex. In the chaos, terrorist organizations such as Al-Qaeda and Daish thrive. The serious crises and conflicts in Iraq, Syria and North Africa have resulted in acute humanitarian crises. The number of refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons worldwide now exceeds 60 million people for the first time since the Second World War. More than 160 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015. Sweden is the country in the Western world that has received the most refugees from Syria since 2011. The war in Syria has now been going on for over five years and has developed into what we can now say is the world's largest humanitarian disaster. Over a quarter of a million people have lost their lives. Half of the Syrian population have fled their homes. Millions of people need humanitarian aid and protection. The decaying state of Syria also has a major impact on regional peace and security. Violence in Syria must stop. Humanitarian law, including humanitarian access, must be respected. The parties to the conflict and the international community have a common responsibility here to achieve a broad and inclusive political solution to the conflict. Sweden must continue to make long-term contributions to support peace, security and development. The acute humanitarian situation in Syria and its neighbouring countries, which are at risk of worsening, requires that Swedish aid be re-prioritized in order to respond to the acute crisis. We Moderates have attached to this report a special opinion which stresses the importance of re-setting priorities in Swedish aid for a long time to come. However, we also welcome the fact that the government has developed a strategy for the Syrian crisis for the period 2016-2020 linking humanitarian aid and development aid. We think that the strategy says too little about what should actually be done. As most of the areas targeted by aid are controlled by Daish, many of the proposals are difficult to implement without in practice also cooperating with the Asad regime. Mr President, I would like to Another country whose security is closely linked to Europe's security is Libya. There is a presidential council established in Tripoli, and it is an important step in the implementation of what in English is called the Libya Political Agreement, LPA. It is now important that the collective government strives for incapacitation and legitimacy in its work. The EU's involvement in Libya must be long-term, and it must be responsive to Libyan needs. In order to support positive long-term development, we need to coordinate all relevant actors. It must be remembered, Mr President, that Libya is still in a very sensitive political situation. In addition to reports that there is now a fragile leadership, we also receive reports that the number of Daish supporters is simultaneously increasing in Libya, and that is very worrying. The EU and NATO must be prepared to do more and also to carry out civilian or military operations in order to stabilise the situation in Libya. We have to fight Daish. The horrendous and systematic abuse must be brought to an end. We have received reports of executions, mass rapes and the bombing of churches. Sweden can and will help in the fight against Daish. At the beginning of this year, at the request of us Moderates, we had an up-to-date debate on Sweden's participation in the fight against terrorism. We meant then, and we still believe, that, in addition to aid and support for the peace process itself in Syria, Sweden must look at what additional military means we can provide in the fight against Daish. The Alliance has jointly proposed that Sweden could contribute with the Swedish Gripen Plan in Syria and Iraq to participate in the fight against terrorism. We condemn attacks, abuses and the violence against the civilian population that is taking place from all parties to the conflict. We condemn the horrendous and cruel abuses by Daish against Christians, Yazidians and other ethnic minorities in Syria and Iraq. This has to stop. We Moderates consider this to be genocide, and we have voted in favour of this position in the European Parliament. But, Mr President, the concept of genocide is a legal, legal term. It is international agreements that dictate how the international community determines that genocide has been committed, and it obliges states and institutions to act. It is up to the legal systems that exist to determine whether a genocide has been committed, it is not up to the Swedish parliament. Mr President, I would like to The committee visited Israel and Palestine earlier in the spring. We met representatives of both sides. The journey took place at a time when Israeli-Palestinian violence had again increased. Israel's right to security must be safeguarded, but it must not be contrary to international law. Through the EU, Sweden must continue to drive the peace process between Israel and Palestine based on a two-state solution in which both parties can live with safe and recognised borders on the basis of the 1967 borders and UN Resolution 242. We Moderates are still critical of the government and what we consider to be premature and ill-considered recognition of the State of Palestine. Given that Palestine is continuing to develop in a worrying direction, it was unfortunate that the government did not impose any counter-claims. Sweden must be able to demand that the Palestinian Authority better complies with democratic principles, combats corruption and respects human rights. That is why we need to review and examine Palestinian aid and, in this context, I would like to call for approval of the motivational reservation, No 11, which we have in the report. Mr President, I would like to The increasingly worried world around us is making increased demands on Swedish foreign and security policy. Developments in the outside world affect Sweden. We must be involved in taking on our responsibilities in preventing and managing crises by interacting with others. We must work together within the EU, within the UN and within NATO with long-term contributions to support peace, security and development in the countries concerned. At the same time, we must be prepared to make further military efforts. Mr President, I would like to I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for our motivational reservation No 11.
i-7WYx2hjbMotP7wmMzSm7xY	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we agree with all our reservations in the report, but I choose to endorse only reservations 6 and 8. Mr President, I would like to As mentioned earlier, we are debating a report dealing with various motions concerning North Africa and the Middle East. During the terrible civil wars that are still going on in Syria and neighbouring Iraq, the people of the region in general, and its minorities in particular, have been systematically subjected to murder, displacement, torture and slavery. Churches have been destroyed. Invaluable ancient remains have been blown to bits. Priests and bishops have been kidnapped. Many Christian and Yazidian communities are about to be completely wiped out. Little children have been crucified for the only reason that they are Christians. The goal of IS/ Daish's terror campaign is to leave behind a not only human but also cultural desert. Their aim is to destroy the history of the Christian and Yazidite minorities, their religious identity and all that these groups have left of their nearly two thousand-year cultural heritage. The process is now being completed in the areas under the control of the terrorist group. The historical connection of Christian groups to the Nineves plain and Mosul in northern Iraq, the country's third largest city, is strong. Unfortunately, the Christian population, which has been there for a very long time, is now almost ethnically cleared. The same fate has met other places. No one can say how many Christians are left today in Iraq and Syria. It is certain, however, that the last few years have been a complete disaster. Even Kurds have been vulnerable in this conflict. They have demonstrated the ability to both defend their territory and pursue democratic development there. They have also shown solidarity by protecting other minorities during the ravages of IS/ Daish. We are very concerned about the development of Christians and other minorities in the region. We believe that the government must step up its efforts, demonstrate its clear support for the vulnerable minorities in the region, pay attention to the humanitarian and cultural values that are about to be completely lost in these civil wars, work for the Nineves Plain to become an area of increased autonomy, its own administrative province within the framework of the Iraqi Constitution to protect minorities, promote a constitutional solution that strengthens the independence of the Kurds and support them in the fight against IS, and increase humanitarian efforts in the conflict area. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Swedish Parliament has a chance to call on our government to send a clear signal that we see what is going on by recognising the ethnic and religious cleansing of Christians, Syrians, Chaldeans, Assyrians, Melkits, Armenians, Mandés, Yazidians and other ethnic minorities in Iraq and Syria as genocide. The Swedish legal definition of the genocide offence is derived from the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which defines the act as one of the following acts committed with a view to the total or partial destruction of a national, ethnic, racially determined or religious ethnic group as such:
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-32	(c) deliberately impose on the population living conditions intended to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part; (d) to implement measures designed to prevent births within the population; (e) to transfer children from the ethnic group to another ethnic group by force. ..................................................... There is no doubt that IS meets these conditions for genocide. The Swedish Democrats support Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council, and I had hoped that this would be a matter for Sweden to pursue there, but unfortunately this does not seem to be the case. The Committee on Foreign Affairs rightly wants to be a committee that stands up for human rights and international law in many contexts. In the same report, the committee makes statements on whether or not states should be recognised. We are not afraid to criticise states or organisations that violate human rights and international law. The fact that the Foreign Affairs Committee then ducks in sending a declaration to the government on the recognition of this terrible genocide is a mystery to me. Here it is not good enough to get caught up in formal discussions about whose job it is to recognise a genocide. The Swedish parliament and government must be crystal clear and show their unequivocal support for the victims of this new holocaust, which is taking place now. The fact that there are parties in this House that are not prepared to do so is truly shameful and makes me deeply, deeply disappointed. Mr President, I would like to The objective of Sweden and the international community in the Middle East conflict must be a long-term sustainable peace. A fundamental prerequisite for this is peace negotiations, where demands are made on both parties and where both are prepared and given the opportunity to compromise for sustainable solutions. The hasty recognition of the State of Palestine that Prime Minister Löfven and Minister for Foreign Affairs Wallström pushed forward together with the Green Party is a decision that the Swedish Democrats do not support. The decision does not provide better conditions for peace and cannot be seen as representative of Sweden, as a parliamentary majority is lacking. The decision also lacks a legal basis. A fundamental requirement of international law for the recognition of a State is that its government controls its territory. Exceptions can be made when another state occupies or controls a territory, but I do not see that as the main problem here. The main problem is Hamas and the Gaza Strip. Although the two former enemies Fatah and Hamas have now entered into an agreement, we see no sign that this will lead to a long-term functioning government or that Hamas will release control of Gaza or govern a state in accordance with democratic principles and respect for human rights. Hamas still has the stated goal of annihilating the state of Israel and killing all Jews. That is why, in our view, no Palestinian government involving Hamas can be considered legitimate. The fact that Prime Minister Löfven states in his government declaration that he wants to take a strong stance against terrorism but yet recognises an area that is partly governed by terrorists reflects a clear double standard. We therefore call on the government to withdraw its recognition of Palestine and to declare it a mistake, a hasty decision that lacked parliamentary support. Mr President, I would like to Our confidence in Fatah, the PLO and the Palestinian Authority is also low. They pay terrorists, call for acts of terrorism and help spread anti-Semitic propaganda. They've been inciting recent stabbings. The Palestinian Authority is showing major shortcomings in relation to corruption, freedom of expression, the rule of law and discrimination against women. In many contexts, we in the Swedish Democrats have called for aid to the Palestinian Authority to be conditional upon the Authority, before any payments are made, ending all rewards and tributes of terrorism and calls for acts of terrorism, clearly rejecting anti-Semitism, demonstrating that it governs in accordance with democratic principles and human rights and demonstrating a willingness to live in a peaceful relationship with Israel. In the last aid budget report, we were the only party that wanted to see such demands. The other parties replied only that they did not share our view of the problems. In recent times, more parties have finally awakened on this issue and have begun to raise their voices about making aid to the Palestinian Authority conditional. However, we have not yet seen any motion from these parties that they can also support, and there has been no willingness to support our motion and reservation and to send a clear signal and announcement to the government in this report either. A small step forward is that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals have written their own motivational reservation. This is better than nothing, and it gives hope that a swing in the matter is about to take place. As the subject matter is more important to us than the sender in supporting proposals from other parties, in today's vote we intend to vote primarily on our own reservation, No 8, but in the second place to vote on the motivational reservation from the Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats. We can only regret the disinterest of the Centres in making demands on the Palestinian Authority and making aid conditional. Otherwise, we could have achieved a majority on this issue. I have already exceeded my speaking time, so I will just briefly conclude by saying that I think it is extremely bad for the Swedish Government not to pursue the parliamentary decision previously taken to recognise the Sahrawi-Arab Republic of Western Sahara. As one of the reasons for not recognising the Republic, the government referred to the UN process. The problem now is that Morocco has kicked almost all UN workers out of the area and that the UN process has stopped. It is also rather strange that, while the government chose not to admit, an agreement was made with Morocco to find a solution for Moroccan street children. The agreement means that it is Sweden that will pay the subsistence for these people in Morocco, but Morocco does not comply with its part of the agreement. I very much hope now that the government can reconsider, see that it has made a mistake and realise that the immoral use of the people of Western Sahara as prey in negotiations with Morocco.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-51	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Foreign Affairs' report on the Middle East and North Africa is based on the motions that have been raised in this House. In other words, it is not a comprehensive review of the whole of the Middle East, but a lot is based on the motions and their demands. There is no doubt that development in the Middle East is a threat to all our peace and security. It affects us all in many ways. In Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, people's dreams aroused hope of the fall of dictators. They fell, but apart from Tunisia, people are experiencing repression again and their human rights are being trampled on. It is, of course, a challenge for us and the EU to face it and to continue to support those forces that want to see democratic development and opportunities for human rights and freedom in their country. Egypt's democracy had barely begun to germinate and barely took root when the military again struck. During the time that has passed, we have seen death sentences handed out in hundreds and how freedom of expression, assembly and other freedoms are once again suppressed. There is no doubt, Mr President, that the Centre Party, like the Committee on Foreign Affairs, condemns the death penalty whether they are distributed in Egypt, Iran or other countries. Libya has also been affected. That is a source of concern. We took responsibility from this House to protect. Responsibilities to protect have been used once to protect the population of Benghazi when threatened by extermination of the regime. What we have not succeeded in doing, Mr President, is jointly taking responsibility for rebuilding. We can now work together to ensure that this happens when an embryo of a government exists in Libya. Syria is the source of such tremendous crimes from many different directions against people. The victims of war are counted in millions and harvested daily. Half the population is on the run. al-Asad-Assad is not part of a solution. It's perfectly clear. There too we have seen war crimes and perhaps crimes against humanity committed. We must try to fight different groups in different ways, both here at home and over there in Syria and in the surrounding world. It is important that we are included in humanitarian aid. Sweden has always acted to provide humanitarian aid on the ground and by opening our borders to receive those fleeing. It is an important part of humanitarian aid. But it is also important that we are involved in rebuilding so that people have a chance to feel hope and confidence. As has also been said before, it is valuable that we have clear support for and a clear ambition from the Swedish side to participate with assistance and various efforts. It is also important to participate militarily in the fight against Daish and the terrorist organisations that exist in both Syria and Iraq. We've unitedly volunteered to support. Some of us were also prepared to make further efforts in response to France's request for assistance under Article 42:7. There is no doubt that we are prepared to take the fight with Daish on all fronts. It is good that we are part of the coalition led by the United States where we are at the heart of 20 states. Daish is undoubtedly a killer organization. It is one of the worst that we have seen in modern times, perhaps the worst, I would say. It is by definition a genocide machine. Anyone who doesn't think as they do, they're prepared to exterminate. It may be people, ethnic groups, religious groups, places or history – they are all prepared to break down. There has been talk of Christians, Shia Muslims and Yazidians. We can and will certainly make the list long, unfortunately, Mr President. What is important is that with our presence, just like the United Nations and the Special Commission responsible for documenting and gathering evidence, we do not lose sight of this. What must not happen is impunity. What must happen is that those responsible, those responsible and those involved in these abuses, crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide are held to account. They can be held accountable here at home, where we have now since 2014 specified props for genocide as a crime. As we see it, as the committee also points out, they can be called to account by a reference from the Security Council to the ICC or to a special tribunal which must have the task of examining the entire Syrian-Iraq complex and the abuses of humanity that have been going on there. There is no doubt about our willingness to bring the issues of war Syria to court. We see that it is the court that will speak, the court that will hear and the court that will judge. We in the Center Party say: Yes, it has been genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. However, it is not up to the parliament or government to judge, but we leave it to the courts to do so. We will ensure that we gather evidence and that we do not allow impunity to prevail. Our position here is tantamount to the position we have taken on other issues when we have been discussing precisely crimes against humanity and genocide. From our side, we do not turn the coat after the wind, depending on whether we are in government or opposition. Mr President, I would like to Let's not think that what happened only happened in 2014 and 2015. It's happening now. This weekend we could hear about new mass graves found. Of course we have to keep our eyes open and judge everyone and not just some. Freedom of punishment must not prevail. Mr President, I would like to I see that speaking time is fast. The issue of Israel and Palestine has been raised. There is no doubt on our part about the 1967 borders. East Jerusalem is also part of the occupied territory. That is something we stand up for. We have stood up for and thought that Sweden should recognise Palestine as a state. We have been critical of the government when and how. Mr President, I would like to I commend our reservation, No. 9. In it it is clear that we believe it is important that we make demands on the Palestinian Authority. We did so when we were present in committee and had discussions on both women's opportunities and LGBTQ, human rights and the importance of trying to make the best of what you are responsible for. We should be clear and make demands, just as we should be clear about Israel. But we must also ensure that we get peace negotiations under way. Right now they're being blocked. It is crucial that we get peace negotiations started, and there the government has a responsibility to try to act. It is not an undemanding position on the part of the Center Party, either here or there. It is clarity that should apply, and we are prepared to contribute to this, Mr President. I support our reservation 9 and reject the reservations which we do not support.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-69	Mr President, I would like to Daish is a genocide machine, Kerstin Lundgren said. Why not send an announcement to the government so that the government can be clear that it recognises what is going on as genocide? Kerstin Lundgren wishes to refer to the ICC, the International Criminal Court. But one doesn't have to rule out the other. What we are doing today sends a clear signal to the people affected, and that is extremely important to them. I can't see there's anything wrong. We make many statements in committee when there are violations of international law and human rights, and we send announcements to the government. Why not do so on this issue too? It looks extremely bad that we do not have a united committee on this issue.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-72	Mr President, I would like to On the part of the Center Party, we have the position that we all agreed on in the committee some time ago, namely that the Parliament should not make statements of this kind of international law. Our position is that these are issues to be debated and discussed. That's why we're bringing this up. That is also why we are taking the debate when we talk about genocide on the Chaldeans, Armenians and others in 1915. But we do not believe that Parliament should judge. That's what the courts are supposed to do. We will make sure that laws are made that are clear. That is also why this Parliament, myself and the Center Party have actively contributed to the creation of genocide as a props in Swedish law. This is important, because then those who go and participate in genocide, crimes against humanity and others can be convicted in Swedish courts. The Parliament shall not speak on these matters. We're going to turn over to the courts to review.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-74	Mr President, I would like to If we are not to speak on such serious issues, I wonder what Kerstin Lundgren really wants with the Foreign Affairs Committee. I remember the previous report on Iraq and the Anfal campaign. It was no less than that the committee stated that it was a genocide that was going on that we agreed on this issue. I would like to ask further about aid to the Palestinian Authority. Recently, reports have been received from Amnesty that the Palestinian Authority is using torture in prisons against deprived citizens. The only crime these people have committed is to criticise their own regime. At the same time, the Authority rewards those who have committed acts of terrorism in Israel. Women are subjected to violence and honour killings. The agency has been involved in inciting the recent stabbings. Does Kerstin Lundgren really think that it is reasonable for aid to continue to be paid out without calling for these abuses and shortcomings to end? I have read Kerstin Lundgren's reservation, where she thinks certain demands should be made. Why, then, is she unable to join the Alliance's joint motivational reserve, which talks about reforming aid in order to make more demands? I do not quite understand what is causing the Center Party not to be prepared to bring down the government here so that we can make more demands on the Palestinian Authority. The government's policy at the moment means that it says it wants to make demands, but nothing happens. Payments are only continuing, and the criticism of the Palestinian Authority by our government is extremely weak. If Kerstin Lundgren is serious about what is in the Center Party's reservation that demands should be made, I wonder why we cannot support a joint reservation. I would have preferred us to make an announcement on the basis of our motion. But you could at least be behind the motive reservation.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-81	Mr President, I would like to With regard to genocide and why we in the committee chose to have a common position after the incident in Halabja, it was because there was a court ruling in that case. That was the starting point for our recognition mark. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party do not want to see political courts. We do not believe that it is we who should judge. It is important that we draw up laws that ensure that free and independent courts are able to review them. The Center Party is unequivocally clear that impunity must not prevail. We must not accept impunity for crimes against humanity, war crimes or genocide. It is therefore important that we make demands – as we do – for the entire complex situation in Syria and Iraq with Daish and its ravages, but also others, to be tested in special order in the ICC or in a special tribunal if the Security Council agrees on it. But we should also be clear that these issues must be examined in Sweden when people from here have participated in such abuse. As far as the Palestinian Authority is concerned, we undoubtedly believe that demands should be made. We have not supported the aid strategy put forward by the government. We are prepared to discuss it, but we do not do it in a motive reservation or in a general announcement. In that case, we want to be clear about what we mean and not just send a general greeting to the government, which a motive reservation would mean.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-85	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult not to feel sorrow and anger when trying to describe developments in North Africa and the Middle East. In Syria, we see the worst humanitarian and human disaster of our time. Libya and Yemen are countries in violent chaos. In Bahrain and Egypt, authoritarian regimes have silenced too many voices for democracy and freedom. Turkey has embarked on a clear authoritarian path, and all forms of opposition to the rule of Erdo 中an are now being met with violence, arrests and repression. At this moment, the ruling AKP party is trying to find ways to even imprison parliamentarians from the opposition party HDP. In Western Sahara refugee camps, the third generation of refugees is now growing. The dictatorships in Riyadh, Abu Dhabi and Tehran show no sign of or willingness to open up to the necessary reforms. The conditions for a two-state solution, a free Palestine and peace have been effectively broken by an increasingly harsh Israeli government. Daish's violence and terror threaten millions of women and men and girls and boys around the Middle East. The violence and abuse against the Christian minorities of the Middle East can today be described as nothing more than genocide. It is easy to feel hopeless about the development of the region, but around the Middle East and North Africa brave men and women continue to fight for peace, democracy, equality and social justice. Tunisia has succeeded in defending its achievements, in holding democratic elections and in adopting a constitution that strengthens women's rights. In Iraq, tens of thousands of people have demonstrated weekend after weekend with demands for reforms and demands for a secular government that is prepared to be a government for the whole of Iraq and the entire population of Iraq. In Turkey, the Left Party of the HDP continues to defy the increasingly authoritarian rule of Erdo中an. Even inside Syria, we see how courageous women and men are trying to lay the foundations for a democratic society beyond Asad's dictatorship and beyond Daish's violence. In northern Syria, in Rojava, Kurdish forces and their allies have been successful in defending their villages and cities and fighting Daish back. It is important to stress that the development of the Middle East is in no way predestined. It is not invisible hands that have created dictatorships. And it is not invisible hands that fuel war and conflict. The future of the Middle East is determined by the choices that the region's men and women face, but also by how we in the outside world and how we in Sweden choose to relate to them and their countries. Our task, Sweden's task, is to be a clear ally and friend of the brave women and men who daily continue the struggle for democracy, for peace, for feminism and for women's and girls' rights. We all have the opportunity to be such a clear friend and ally. If we are to be a force for peace and democracy, we cannot continue to arm dictatorships that fuel the armed conflicts. We need to strangle the supply of weapons to the Middle East. On 25 February, the European Parliament decided to call on the EU and the EU Member States to impose an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia because of its assaulted war in Yemen. The Netherlands has already introduced a national arms embargo. It is high time that Sweden did the same. In the last five years, Sweden has sold weapons to dictatorships for SEK 15 billion, many of them in the Middle East. It is high time that our country introduced a clear ban on arms exports to dictatorships and belligerent states. Mikael Damberg's export offensive in Tehran, Dubai and Ankara must not be disconnected from issues of democracy, trade union rights and gender equality. We need to make clear demands on foreign investment and link up issues of trade and human rights. And we need to demand that all products coming from illegal Israeli settlements are clearly labelled in Sweden, just as they are already labelled in the UK. Sweden could be a very clear feminist voice in the Middle East, a voice against the violence that now affects girls, women and LGBT people. But we could also see and make visible how girls, women and LGBT people are not only victims but also organise themselves and are actors for change, but that they also need our support in their work. We need to recognise Western Sahara and send a clear signal of hope to those living in refugee camps and under occupation. When it comes to the question of Western Sahara, my colleague, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, will talk about this later in her speech. Mr President, I would like to It was important for the European Parliament to establish on 4 February that Daish's systematic violence against Assyrians/Syrians, Yazidians and other Christian minorities is a genocide. The Left Party voted in favour of the resolution. Now it is important that we take these words and these positions seriously, that we act to prevent this genocide and that we act to give refuge to those fleeing the genocide. At the same time, for the first time in a long time, there are hopes that the world will be able to unite against Daish and for peace. A peace agreement for Syria and a united world community would clearly weaken Daish and reduce its ability to continue its terror. Sweden must actively engage in the ongoing peace talks and not least continue its work to ensure that women, minority groups and representatives of Rojava are present at the negotiating table. But we must also see that if Daish is to be defeated in the long term, the governments of Damascus and Baghdad need to fundamentally change. Asad must resign, and the Iraqi Government must implement fundamental democratic reforms. Mr President, I would like to I am proud to belong to and represent a party, the Left Party, which in the past year collected more than $100,000 for the reconstruction of the city of Kobane in Syria. But, of course, our rifles cannot replace active governments. Sweden and the international community now need to go in with both humanitarian aid and aid for the reconstruction of the cities and villages ravaged by Daish, so that Kurds and other groups can focus on combating the terror organisation Daish. But the Kurdish forces and their allies are not only fighting Daish. They also need to defend themselves against Turkey's bomb attack. We are seeing today how Turkey plays a clearly negative and destructive role in the region. The Turkish Air Force is shooting at the very groups that are fighting Daish on a daily basis. And Daish would not have survived without the possibility of smuggling oil, weapons and combatants through Turkey. Sweden must speak clearly about this. Mr President, I would like to If we are to be a clear friend and ally of the courageous men and women in the Middle East and North Africa who are fighting for change, we must also be prepared to give them a sanctuary in our country and our continent when they need it. It is not possible to make one day loud speeches about Daish's terror and the next day propose that those fleeing this terror should meet with closed borders, refugee breaks and detention camps. We cannot talk with credibility about democracy and peace in the Middle East and then support the EU sending a multi-billion dollars to President Erdo In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to express my support for reservations 2 and 13.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-106	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by reading a quote: A recognition is extremely important in order to obtain a restoration for Armenians, Assyrians/Syrians, Chaldeans, Pontiers and others. the situation and identity and to create an improved basis for future dialogue. ..................................................... This is how the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats wrote in 2010 when it came to recognising the genocide in Turkey in 1915. At that time, there were also some difficulties, as this was a historic event. Now we are faced with a similar situation when it comes to what is happening today. We have visual evidence. It's people who've come down. Lars Adaktusson of the Christian Democrats, who contributed to this resolution in the European Parliament, has recently shown pictures of the situation down in the plain of Nineves and seen an area completely cleansed and destroyed. In 2010, the Left Party was prepared to recognise the genocide in 1915. Now, 2016, we are again faced with a similar situation, and the Left Party is not prepared to acknowledge what is happening as a genocide and send an announcement to the government. Why?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-111	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for reminding us in this House that the Left Party was the driving force in 2010 behind this House's recognition of the 1915 genocide of Armenians, Assyrians/Syrians, Chaldeans and Pontic Greeks! I have to say that there are few things I am more proud of having contributed to during my years in the Swedish Parliament than this particular recognition. We did this recognition in order to redress the victims of the genocide and their descendants, but also – it is perhaps even more important – for us to learn from history. Therefore, when voting in the European Parliament on the resolution on genocide in the Middle East, it was obvious for the Left Party to vote in favour of it. The Left Party has taken its stand. The European Parliament has taken its stand. The signal is crystal clear about where we stand. But we have also learned from history that words alone are not enough. It also requires action. In our reservations and in my speech, we have put forward a series of proposals on how we can now act to prevent the genocide from continuing and to provide an opportunity for those fleeing the genocide to have a safe haven in Sweden and in Europe. This is where Julia Kronlid is starting to have huge problems with her rhetoric. It is then that Julia Kronlid increasingly appears to be a blunder in this debate. You speak loudly about genocide and terror and Daish's genocide, but you represent a party whose whole basic idea is that those who now flee the genocide are so prevented from fleeing. Your whole idea, your most important questions in recent years, has been to prevent people from leaving Syria. You want those affected by violence at best to be placed in refugee camps in neighbouring countries, at worst remaining inside Syria. Julia Kronlid sits on high moral horses, but it becomes difficult when you are so deeply smeared in brown goo. ( FIRST VICE PALMANN: Before giving the floor to Julia Kronlid, I would like to remind you that we are keeping a good tone and we are not giving each other the reports in the debate. )
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-118	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that call. Hans Linde says that it was important in 2010 to make this recognition for a redress for those affected. Why isn't that important today? It is great that the Left Party voted in favour of this in the European Parliament, but there is nothing to prevent an announcement to the Swedish Government. A confession has been made in the United States. Representatives of other governments have also been able to do so. Why can't Sweden send a call to Margot Wallström to do the same? We have noticed in the debate today that this is extremely important for the people affected. Many groups are very disappointed with the decision that will be taken in Parliament today. The same applies to the criticism that Hans Linde raises against me. But one important detail that Hans Linde forgets is that if the only solution is not to help people there, then we will help IS to achieve what they want, namely to clear these areas of people and have it ethnically purged. Everybody's moving out of there. Then IS has achieved its goal. I understand that people must flee, but the vast majority of people, no matter what our politics here today, are fleeing to the immediate vicinity, want to be in the immediate vicinity and need help there. Many Christians also shout for help in Syria and Iraq in order to remain close to their area and cultural heritage. That cry for help has not been answered by the Swedish Government. Nor is it the case that we Swedish democrats cannot imagine helping people. We also have in our party programme that we want to receive quota refugees.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-124	Mr President, I would like to The signal from the Left is crystal clear, and I have been crystal clear in my speech: what is going on right now in the Middle East is genocide. The signal we have sent from the European Parliament is crystal clear: we see that what is going on is genocide. But what is interesting now is how we are going to act to prevent this genocide and what we are going to do to give those fleeing the genocide a sanctuary. Here Julia Kronlid misses all forms of politics and all forms of ideas, and therefore this becomes just a game for the galleries. Julia Kronlid sits on high moral horses and brings out her most haughty rhetoric. But your concrete policy, the whole foundation of your party, is to close borders, to prevent people from escaping, and those now affected by Daish's terror either to be forced to remain inside Syria or to be forced into refugee camps in neighbouring countries under very difficult conditions. I think it is important at this point to see that we must learn from history. Today we remember in Sweden many of those who survived the genocide in 1915. They could survive that genocide because they were given sanctuary. For there were courageous missionaries, diplomats, and others who acted to save the people who fled the genocide in 1915. This is a lesson. If they had acted in 1915 as Julia Kronlid wants to act today, far fewer could have been saved to life. I think it is important that we now stand up and learn from history and guarantee a sanctuary for those fleeing terror.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-129	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 6. No one leaves their home unless the home is the shark's mouth. You only run towards the border, if the whole city runs too. Mr President, I would like to I think we need the words of Warsan Shires these days. 2015 was a hugely difficult year for the people of the Middle East and North Africa. Unfortunately, 2016 has continued in exactly the same way. A strong Swedish voice is now needed more than ever in this region. This applies not least to Israel and Palestine. We Liberals are in favour of a two-state solution and were actually one of the first parties in Western Europe to take this decision. We believe that Israel must put an end to the expanding settlement policy and at all times nurture the democracy that has made it so unique in the region in terms of freedom of the press, minority rights, equality, tolerance and transparency. We think that the Swedish recognition of Palestine came too early and was too undemanding. Corruption is widespread, homosexuals and women are subjected to terrible discrimination and anti-Semitic violence propaganda flows without any response from those responsible. The recognition of Palestine could have been used as a carrot to get the authorities to improve the situation of a people who have not been allowed to vote in free elections for more than ten years now. The Palestinian democratisation process has stagnated. Here we think that the government is sloppy with democracy. It is sad, because democracy in the world is actually backing down for the tenth year in a row now. It goes without saying to us that states that implement democratic reforms and reduce corruption should be rewarded for this. States that continue to commit violence on the human rights of their citizens should be made aware of this through a reduction in aid. That is why we think it is important to have a major and thorough review of Swedish aid to the Palestinian Authority. Mr President, I would like to It will certainly not be easy for those who will clean up Sweden's reputation in the Middle East after this term of office. A few weeks ago another sad red - green embarrassment was revealed. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, on the basis of a decision prepared by responsible Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, chose to vote in favour of a Unesco resolution that denies Judaism and questions Christianity's strong ties to Mount Tempel. UNESCO Director General Irina Bokova warned and criticised this decision that it was both historical revisionist and could also create problems for a continued peace process in the Middle East. Yet Sweden was one of the few EU countries that voted in favour of this shameful proposal, which will exacerbate an already very tense situation in Jerusalem. Mr President, I would like to The Islamic terrorists in Daish, Al-Shabab and Boko Haram commit vile crimes. All over the world, both the civilian population and its leaders stand hand-fellow in the face of this asymmetrical warfare. Families with children were murdered during Easter celebrations in a park in Pakistani Lahore in a suicide attack. Only days before, young Iraqi boys who played football in a suburb of Baghdad were murdered. It was also made very clear in 2015 that Islamist terrorism also sees Europe as a battlefield. Paris experienced the horror of the terrible terror several times. And remember, everyone: Every attack is a frontal attack on democracy and open society. Daish is also becoming an increasingly global movement that extends its evil tentacles and takes the chance to grow in decayed villages in the Philippines, Libya and Somalia. Therefore, in any conflict in which we intervene, the international community must be prepared to stay for a long time. I'm talking about years, maybe even decades. It is a lesson from the war in Iraq and when Muammar Gaddafi was deposed as a leader in Libya. The world has a responsibility to intervene when a regime declares war on its population, but the free world must also be careful to build strong and inclusive governance. As long as Daish continues to ravage the Middle East, Syrian and Iraqi little girls will be married away, time after time. They will be sold for a thousand as sex slaves, and they will be raped. I think it is good that we have a government that calls itself feminist and has ambitions to have a feminist foreign policy. As a Liberal, I think that is important. Women are most affected by the conflicts that are taking place, and women's rights only smoke when the war breaks out. According to UN Women, 51 percent of Syrian refugee girls marry before they reach the age of 18 — 51 percent. Before the war, the share was 13 – 17 per cent. If any part of the world desperately needs a liberal, feminist foreign policy, that is where Daish now operates in the Middle East, where brave Kurdish peshmerga soldiers, both women and men, defend Iraqi and Syrian civilians. Sweden today supports the Kurds in northern Iraq with educational efforts. That is good, but we Liberals also want them to have access to Swedish weapons. It is necessary for terrorism to be combated seriously. Mr President, I would like to Liberal foreign policy is feminist and activist but never pacifistic. Sometimes freedom must be defended with arms in hand. Barely a week ago, the notes of Bach and Prokofjev could be heard from an amphitheater in the ancient desert city of Palmyra. It was the Russian-backed Syrian government forces that had taken back the Syrian World Heritage site. During a major security move, one of Russia's most prominent orchestras was flown in to deliver a message. Putin wanted to suggest that Russia is the main defender of Western civilization. But whoever commits war crimes can never be credible in defending civilization against barbarism. Friends like Putin to dictator Bashar al-Asad-Assad are not friends of civilization in any way or defenders of humanity. Anyone who has followed the reports of attacks with oil barrel bombs realizes that Asad does not shun any means in the war against his own population. He has a secret service that has killed hundreds of children. A two - year - old was shot to death to avoid the child growing up to be a demonstrant. But Daish is not alone in turning Syria into hell on earth. If Asad and his accomplices are not brought to justice, it will be difficult for Syria, even for a very long time, to become a functioning region. Mr President, I would like to For us Liberals, it is clear that the minorities in the plain of Nineves themselves will be able to decide their own fate. This applies not only to the Kurds in Kurdistan, KRG, but also in a future Syria and Iraq, as well as the Kurds, must have the opportunity to build their communities. A regional government of the minority peoples of the Nineves plain was announced by the Iraqi government as early as 2014 but has not been implemented due to Daish's invasion. It is therefore important that Sweden pushes for this to actually become a reality when peace comes. Mr President, I would like to Remember, we are talking about a minority people who have been persecuted for centuries. It is about people who for generations have been forced to change religion and driven from their lands. It has to stop. Now Assyrians, Yazidians and other minorities in the Middle East are again subjected to genocide. Daish has forced hundreds of thousands to flee the Nineves plain in Iraq. Their destruction of the Sankt Elias Monastery in Iraq and the Temple of Belt in Syrian Palmyra is a violation of our entire civilization. History one repeats itself. In 1910, 14 per cent of the people of the Middle East were Christian. Today, the share is 4%. 90 % of the Assyrians were admitted under seyfo. Now 80% of the Assyrians have been driven for a decade from Iraq and Syria. Therefore, the Swedish Government has a responsibility to also recognise the ethnic and religious cleansing. It is a genocide of Christians, Armenians, Mandés, Yazidians and other minorities. There is no other way to describe what is happening right now. Mr President, I would like to No one leaves their home until a home has become a sweaty voice in your ear that says, "Go away! Run away from me now, because I don't know what I've become. But I know I'll be safe anywhere more than I'm here.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-155	Mr President, I would like to The Middle East and North Africa are our neighbours. It is a region whose destiny involves and touches upon. The number of requests dealt with in this report and the number of Members who have signed up for the debate show the great commitment that exists in this House. It is a commitment to ending terror, war, persecution and suffering. It is a commitment to supporting the forces that are fighting for democracy, development and a brighter future. This is a region that gave us hope during the Arab spring. We wanted so badly. But history should have taught us that the transition from dictatorship to democracy is fragile. It must be cared for in order to grow strong. Unfortunately, the hope that would have been an oasis of freedom in the desert of dictatorship is almost gone. The uprising against a harsh regime in Syria took place almost exactly five years ago. As in many other countries in the region, peaceful demonstrations were crushed by brutal force. It is a violence that escalated, degenerated and came to be the worst humanitarian disaster in modern times. The outside world failed to extinguish when the sparks appeared. Now it's big fire. It is estimated that the civil war in Syria took 400 000 lives. 12 1⁄2 million Syrians are currently on the run, and 13 1⁄2 million are desperately in need of humanitarian aid in the country. Recently, we have seen air strikes against refugee camps, and in Aleppo, 200 people died in the course of a week. One of those who lost their lives was the town's last pediatrician, Mohammed Maaz Maaz. He died in the last of a series of heinous violent attacks that the Asad regime was deliberately targeting hospitals. This is completely contrary to international law. The fact that the UN Security Council has now voted through a resolution aimed at stopping attacks on health facilities is a good thing. May it just be respected. But these disgusting attacks must also have consequences for the regimes that are behind them. The laws of war must apply to everyone – Asad, Putin and others. Mr President, I would like to The Islamic terrorist organisation Daish, the Islamic State, has exploited the political instability of the region and has managed to conquer vast land areas in Iraq and Syria with the aim of establishing a caliphate. IS kills to incite fear, but they also deliberately murder with the aim of completely or partially destroying specific groups. This is also the definition of genocide. We Christian Democrats do not believe that the Swedish Government should be silent when Christians, Yazidians and other ethnorelic minorities are systematically separated on the basis of who they are. Peoples are now in danger of being completely wiped out of the region. Then it is not good enough that we do not dare to use all the means at our disposal to put an end to the murder. The Christian Democrats therefore want to see an internationally supervised and controlled protection zone in northern Iraq so that Christians and other minorities can return home. We want to see a Sweden that dares to recognise the ongoing genocide and promote a legally binding decision in the UN Security Council so that perpetrators can be brought to justice in the International Criminal Court. Anything else would be a historical betrayal. Mr President, I would like to I support reservation 5 on the protection of minorities and reservation 6 on the recognition of genocide in Iraq and Syria. With the help of the international coalition and Kurdish forces, IS has been partially repressed. It is good that we are assisting with an educational effort from the Swedish side, but we must be able to do more. France called for JAS Gripen, and we regret that the Swedish government was unable to respond to that wish. However, IS is also established on another continent today. In the chaos that arose after Gaddafi, the Islamic State has created a bastion in the stray oil state of Libya. The Islamic State is now attracting recruits from Niger, Nigeria, Chad, Senegal and several countries to Libya to create a new caliphate. European jihadists also travel increasingly to Libya than before. This is a development that is deeply worrying. The consequences of IS presence in the country are clear. They have carried out a series of major attacks, including an explosion at a luxury hotel in Tripoli, owned by Malta, and beheaded 21 Coptic guest workers. IS has built its new base in Europe's absolute neighbourhood just 350 km from Malta and 700 km from Italy. Europe showed decisiveness when Gaddafi was to be overthrown, but then the power seemed to run out and we left the Libyans to their fate. The fall in Libya shows what happens when there is no long-term roadmap. There was no interest in remaining and supporting a construction process, and today we see the consequences. It is important that the EU has now resumed its commitment. Support for the fight against terrorism and democratic development is crucial. Mr President, I would like to All too often Israel's existence is used as an explanation for wars and conflicts in the Middle East. Only Israel makes peace with Palestine will the whole Middle East have peace. It is an error and a focus that does not contribute to constructive solutions in the region. Of course, Israel should be criticised for error, but the proportions of the guilt are skewed. The fact that the terrorist organisation Hamas is not so often the subject of criticism says a great deal. It is easy for the UN to hear resolutions criticising Israel in particular. A majority of the texts adopted in the Human Rights Council do just that. In a recent resolution adopted by UNESCO, the ties of Jews and Christians to sacred places are reduced and made invisible. It voted in favour of Sweden. Through recognition of Palestine, Sweden said it was prepared to play a more active role in peace building, but instead we came to be banished to a place in the gallery. With the recognition came a new strategy and more money for Palestine. Needs are great. Sweden must therefore be able to be both demanding and driving the development. But we see how Palestine continues in a worrying direction. Incitement to violence and hate speech has become a part of everyday life. We therefore believe that the policy towards and aid to the Palestinian Authority needs to be re-established in order for Sweden to make a real difference. Sweden must demand that the Palestinian Authority better complies with democratic principles, combats corruption and respects human rights. With reforms and demands on Palestine, the situation of people in the region can be improved. Mr President, I would like to I would like to endorse Amendment No 11 which deals with this very subject. Finally, there are many of us who have our hearts in the Middle East, who have lived in the region, who have relatives there. The links between our regions are strong. The fact that we as Members of Parliament are doing motions is an important tool, but our responsibility does not stay here. The responsibility for Swedish foreign policy lies with the government, and we in this House must assume our responsibilities and put pressure on our country to act with force. We must not bow down and allow dictators and terrorists to prevail.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-172	Mr President, I would like to I really want to say that I have great respect for the commitment of the Christian Democrats and Sofia Damm to Assyrians, Syrians, Chaldeans, Yazidians and other Christian minorities around the Middle East. I welcome the push for a resolution in the European Parliament, and I am pleased that our MEP, Malin Björk, voted in favour of that resolution. But I'm also quite confused about how the Christian Democrats get their politics together. It is said that it is a genocide that is going on in the Middle East and that it is important that we act. But then it is concluded that we should therefore close the borders of those who flee the genocide. The Assyrians, Syrians, Chaldeans, Yazidians and others who manage to get away from Daish's violence, terror and genocide policy must therefore meet a closed border. I see that the Christian Democrats have endorsed the agreement between the EU and Turkey, which means, among other things, that we now see Turkey closing its borders with Syria and forcing refugees to return and that refugees who manage to enter Turkey are placed in detention camps. You have supported the austerity that this government has launched and which will mean that we are strengthening the right of asylum in Europe down to the minimum level of the European Union. This will mean that the Yazidian woman who has managed to get to Sweden but lost her children on the road cannot be reunited with her family. How can it be Christian-democratic politics? I note that the Christian Democrats are not even satisfied with this. You want to take further steps. Ebba Busch Thor has launched the idea that the refugees who, despite all these obstacles, come to Sweden should be placed in detention camps at the border. Sofia Damm! How does this make sense? Why should we close the borders of those fleeing Daish's terror and genocide?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-178	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Linde. It is positive that your representative in the European Parliament, Malin Björk, supported the resolution. Actually, I didn't know that. However, I wonder what Malin Björk did to convince her colleagues, because I understand that the Left was the only group in the European Parliament that chose to oppose and vote against the resolution. Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility in the reception of refugees, and Sweden will continue to take a great deal of responsibility. But more countries need to help. We want to see order in the reception, we want to know who comes into our country when the EU's external borders are open and we want a reception that we can manage. That is why the Christian Democrats have agreed to some changes in asylum policy.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-181	Mr President, I would like to I must admit that both I and Malin Björk are deeply disappointed at how the left-wing group in the European Parliament has acted. The GUE Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left and the majority of its members voted against the resolution. However, it is also important to indicate that we chose to go against the group on that point and vote in favour of the resolution that was on the table. We think that this issue is so important. But I can't make ends meet. Sofia Damm says there must be order. We've heard those words before. But what does what Sofia Damm says ultimately mean? This means that the Yazidian family that has managed to get out of Iraq, which has left hell behind, is facing a closed border. This means that the Assyrian man who, with great hardships, has managed to cross the Mediterranean into the EU cannot be reunited with his family. This means that the Chaldean boy who lost his family on the road is placed in a Turkish detention camp, severely criticized by Amnesty. That is the consequence of the words of order and order and shared responsibility. That's what reality looks like. The question is: The Yazidi, the Assyrian, the Syrian, the Chaldean who is currently on Syria's border with Turkey and wants to go to a sanctuary, wants to leave the violence and terror and genocide behind – in what way is he helped by the Swedish parliament today approving the Christian Democrats' reservation?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-184	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Mr Linde says that the European Parliament is the right level to recognise a genocide but does not say that the Swedish Government should recognise that it is a genocide. The Swedish government wants to sit on the Security Council at almost any price. It is the Security Council, the UN Security Council, that has the opportunity to refer the matter to the International Criminal Court. Only then can justice be done, because Iraq shows no sign of joining the ICC. Yes, the reality is that unless we do something, ethnic minorities are forced to flee for their lives. We want to make sure it doesn't happen. These people do not want to be forced to flee. Why can't we be there for them? Why can't we offer a safe zone, and why don't we dare to say the truth-- that there's a genocide going on and that it requires our action?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-187	Mr President, I would like to Once upon a time there was a king who asked four people to describe to him what an elephant looks like. They had blindfolded eyes. The first person felt the elephant's legs and said that the elephant was like a pillar. The other person felt the elephant's tail and said the elephant looked like a rope. The third person felt the trunk and said the elephant was like a tree branch. The fourth person felt the elephant's stomach and said the elephant looked like a massive wall. They were all wrong at the same time as they were all right, which of course is the whole point. In this committee report, I believe that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has made an honest attempt to give an overall picture without blindfolds or blindfolds. We do our utmost to see reality as it is, and then we shape our policy to the best of our ability. For us, the goal is always man, his freedom and right – regardless of origin, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, age, sexual orientation or other grounds of discrimination. Mr President, I would like to It is a comprehensive report we are dealing with here today. The Middle East and North Africa comprise about 381 million people. I intend to make a few brief strikes to demonstrate the policy that Sweden consistently pursues – with democracy, peace, human rights and gender equality in essence. In March 2011, peaceful demonstrations were launched for democracy and increased freedom in Syria. The Asad regime tried to suppress the demonstrations by force, with the result that the rebellion was gradually militarised. Syria and Iraq are today the world's largest humanitarian disaster area, with hundreds of thousands of deaths and tens of millions of people in need of humanitarian aid. The conflicts in Syria and Iraq are a human disaster. The brutality of the Asad regime and Daish is indiscriminately affecting the civilian population. No one escapes, whether Sunni, Shiite, Kurds, Christian minorities, Yazidians or other groups. Assaults are also committed by other groupings. No doubt very serious international crimes are committed in Syria and Iraq. The vast majority of us in here have heard of or seen the videos or stories that have spread from Daish. They are cruel, and their actions are terrible. I am thinking of the Christians who were drowned in a cage with underwater cameras. They were murdered only because they were Christians. I'm thinking about the two young gay guys who got thrown out of a high-rise in Raqqa. They were murdered only because they were homosexuals. I am thinking of the Yazidians who were killed in August 2014 in hundreds in the city of Kocho and the tens of thousands of Yazidians who were trapped on Mount Sinjar without access to water, food or medical care – this simply because they were Yazidians. Here we know that Daish has at least been guilty of attempted genocide, because without the coalition's efforts these people would have been slaughtered. Coherent reports speak of gross, systematic and widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. Punishment is not an option. The perpetrators must be held to account and victims must be brought to justice. What do Sweden and the Foreign Affairs Committee do? According to international law, it is very difficult to prove that there is a genocide going on. There is also a joint call for efforts to improve the UN Charter. But this should not make a difference when it comes to how we act and what we do to prevent this. Sweden's support is both military and humanitarian. We condemn the attacks, abuse and violence by the Asad regime and terrorist groups Daish and the Nusra Front against the civilian population, and we welcome the fact that the EU has called on the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court in the areas falling under the jurisdiction of the ICC. We also call on Iraq to join the ICC. Sweden is conducting a military training operation in northern Iraq. We were one of the first EU countries to respond to France's request for support. We have an operation in Mali that has released French military, which is now being deployed in the fight against Daish in Syria and Iraq. France has thanked Sweden for this effort. We are also contributing concretely. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Sweden has since 2011 contributed approximately SEK 2.2 billion in humanitarian aid to the Syrian crisis, of which approximately SEK 577 million in 2015. The EU and its Member States have jointly contributed around EUR 4 billion in humanitarian aid since 2011. We assume that none of the aid funds either Daish, As ad or other terrorist groups. Now, with a fragile ceasefire and a fragile process, I would like to recall Mahatma Gandhis's words: There is no way to peace – peace is the way. A lasting peace must involve the participation of women, minorities and civil society representatives in the process and the disappearance of the old regime in the long term. Mr President, I would like to I choose to continue in the area that is well known in Sweden, Israel and Palestine. Last autumn the Committee on Foreign Affairs visited the two countries. It was a very good journey where we had the opportunity to see both hope and despair. Saeb Erekat, who is the chief negotiator of the PLO, was appalled by the lone wolves or knife terrorists, as they are also called, who attack Israelis both inside Israel and on occupied land. His conclusion was: We must make sure that the Palestinian youth wants to live for Allah instead of dying for Allah. With regard to Sweden's support for Palestine, I would like to emphasise from the report in particular that the recognition of Palestine as a state is a good way forward and that we hope that more countries will choose to follow suit. It gives hope to the Palestinians, and it makes the parties somewhat more equal, although Israel remains the stronger party. When it comes to Swedish aid, a united committee thinks it is important that not a crown, not a penny, should go to fund some form of anti-Semitism. At the same time, however, it is also important for Sweden to be allowed to review aid, and we must therefore be allowed to enter Gaza. We believe in a peace settlement whereby the State of Israel lives side by side, in peace and security, with a democratic, cohesive and viable Palestinian state according to the 1967 borders. Mr President, I would like to Does anyone remember the efforts that Sweden has made throughout history? That's a reasonable question to ask yourself. I don't know. But I know that in Vienna, the capital of Austria, not far from the oldest church and a distance from the synagogue, there is a place in the middle of the city called Schwedenplatz. Why? It is in memory of the efforts made by Sweden for Austria and the people of Vienna after the First World War 98 years ago. Every day thousands of people passing through the site are reminded of Sweden's efforts to reduce suffering and distress, and we are also reminded that Sweden, as a small country, can play and plays a major role for people. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-214	Mr President, I would like to I'll read some quotes again. It is therefore the responsibility of politicians to recognise the historical fact of the genocide. A recognition is extremely important in order to obtain a restoration for Armenians, Assyrians/Syrians, Chaldeans, Pontiers and others. situation and identity. This was what the Social Democrats wrote in 2010, when they were in favour of recognising the genocide that took place in 1915 in Turkey. Why, then, was it important to recognise a genocide that has been committed in history when it is not important for the Social Democrats today to recognise a genocide that is going on right now? Why, then, was it important for these peoples to get redress? Don't these people need redress today too, Anders Österberg?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-217	Mr President, I would like to Let us be clear about one thing: anyone who has committed war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide or attempted genocide must be held to account. We can't let the perpetrators get away with this. Words are important, not as bats in a political debate, but because we share the concern about a situation. It matters what we legally call things. Therefore, I am also very pleased that the government is taking a great deal of responsibility in the question of the genocide in 1915 by conducting a thorough investigation into it at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. But at present and sometimes the genocide convention is difficult to use. There is a need for a judicial body to identify genocide. The ICC may be empowered to investigate crimes under its statute: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes. A State may also accede to the Charter or make a specific declaration conferring jurisdiction on the ICC over its territory and its nationals. Another option is for the UN Security Council, even without the consent of the State concerned, to confer jurisdiction on the ICC. The government, together with the other EU countries, has consistently called on the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the ICC and called on Iraq to join the Court of Justice. Others, such as the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the UN Special Investigation Commission for Syria and the European Parliament, have also pointed out the importance of giving the ICC competence for the crimes committed in Iraq and Syria. We are also working on other levels within the UN. I would like to emphasise that the most important thing is that we act. Our ability to act is not determined by what we call it. We have not waited for a legal decision as to whether it is genocide or not to respond to the massive abuse, but we have reacted nonetheless. My question to Julia Kronlid is: Does Julia Kronlid think we should wait until we have this legally clarified, or does she think it is good that the government reacts anyway?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-223	Mr President, I would like to I don't really understand the question. I think the government should act now. The government should be clear and say that it is a genocide that is going on, end of story, and be crystal clear in such statements. It is such a declaration of giving that we believe that the Riksdag should send to the government today. I do not understand why the Social Democrats cannot agree to this. In the 2010 reservation, Anders Österberg's party wrote that it is the responsibility of politicians to recognise an obvious genocide. Why is it not politicians responsibility today, Anders Österberg? Then Anders Österberg takes up the Security Council. That's part of the announcement in the motion. The proposal is, of course, to send an announcement to the government to pursue this issue in the UN Security Council. Why not agree to send such an announcement to the government? Now we reject the announcement. Does this mean that Anders Österberg thinks that the government should not raise the issue in the Security Council and that we should not push for recognition of the genocide in the UN? One does not exclude the other in other contexts when it comes to taking action to stop IS – rather the other way around. If we recognise that it is a genocide, it sets in motion processes that require the UN to take responsibility for action. And perhaps the security zone that we and other parties, including within the European Parliament, have asked for can begin to become a reality. One doesn't have to rule out the other. We will act on many levels to support and help vulnerable Christians. But what we are doing here today sends a clear signal, and unfortunately it looks like we are going to send a very bad signal from the Swedish Parliament that we do not recognise this as a genocide today. I find that shameful.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-229	Mr President, I would like to Do not believe anything but that from the first day we have looked at what we can do, if there is anything else we can do, if we are to call this genocide or how it is to be defined and how it affects. In fact, it shouldn't affect how we act. What is important is that we act and that we continue on the tracks that are already there now. It is important to stress that our opportunities and obligations to act to protect populations in danger do not depend on how we establish the legal classification of acts. Sweden can and does work through the UN. We work on site and participate in the fight against Daish, both militarily and through the training effort. I object a little to the description that the government is doing nothing. It does a great deal.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-231	Mr President, I would like to I have listened with great interest to Anders Österberg's speech. I have also read with great interest the debate article published yesterday in Aftonbladet. But there are some things I can't get together. It is stated that legally we cannot say with certainty that it is a genocide, but politically it is our duty to condemn what is happening. I don't know how Anders Österberg feels, but I didn't become a politician to engage in a lot of condemnations that nobody cares about. My driving force is that I want to change. If you want to change, you need courage and clarity. It is required by the Swedish Government to dare to take a stand. The Swedish Government wants Sweden to have a seat in the Security Council. If we do not get that place, we can still press others by daring to say as it is and refer the matter to the ICC. Anders Österberg is also clear about this. Therefore, I do not understand this fear of saying clearly that what is happening is nothing less than genocide.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-234	Mr President, I would like to It is not up to Parliament to decide whether this is a genocide or not, but it is up to the ICC. That is why we would like to refer the question to the ICC. We also work politically. Firstly, we support the UN process, which we hope will lead to a political solution and peace in Syria. We are specifically helping the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura and contributing people to him. We have helped women get a place in the peace negotiations. We are engaged in an active dialogue with the various parts of the Syrian opposition and civil society, also with the forces representing different forms of minorities. We are in favour of an inclusive and cohesive Iraq that can have democratic institutions to protect the country's many different groupings, including religious and ethnic ones. Secondly, we are acting humanitarianly on the ground to resolve the acute crisis and alleviate suffering and distress. We provide comprehensive humanitarian aid, SEK 2.2 billion, to the Syria crisis. We have increased it by 1.7 billion over five years with a new Syria strategy. Thirdly, we are also contributing militarily to the fight against Daish. There is also an armed force in place in northern Iraq participating in a training operation. We know that there are crimes against humanity in Iraq and Syria, and that is why we choose to act.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-239	Mr President, I would like to I still can't get it right. This reservation is, of course, an invitation to the Swedish Government to dare to call this genocide and press ahead with the Security Council in order for the matter to move forward, for justice to take place and for us to bring to justice those who are guilty of it. But I realise that I am not getting an answer to this. There's no logic. The debate here has been very much about Islamic State violence affecting indiscriminately. I find it very difficult to understand how to say it is indiscriminate. Why were homes in Mosu l marked with the Arabic letter N? Well, just to distinguish that there lived a Christian. Why were homosexuals pushed from the high-rise, as Anders Österberg mentioned in his speech? Because they were considered unclean by the Islamic State. Why are Muslims murdered who do not share IS' quest for the caliphate? Because they are thought to be misled in the Islamic faith. Isn't this separating people, Anders Österberg?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-242	Mr President, I would like to I hear what Sofia Damm says. But there is a difference between how the word is used in the people's mouth and how we express our thoughts and reactions to what is going on in one word. There is also a legal international definition which is much more difficult to prove at present. That is why politicians everywhere hesitate to go out and call something genocide. However, we should not make a difference in how we act to prevent this. It doesn't matter what we call it. What is important is that we help to alleviate suffering and can stop it from happening. That is the important political task. We also have to work on instruments such as the International Law Commission and other things so that they can hopefully be used better in the future, but that is not the case at present. Therefore, we would like to refer this matter to the ICC for a ruling on whether or not genocide is taking place.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-245	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help raising a question to Anders Österberg and the Social Democrats. We have had a number of discussions in this House not only on genocide, on which we are currently having many exchanges, but also on the question of recognition of Western Sahara. In 2012, the Social Democrats were enthusiastic and wanted to acknowledge Western Sahara. They considered that the conditions of international law were met for recognition. In 2013, the committee and this House criticised the failure of the then government, which included the Center Party, to comply with what the Riksdag had announced. Now the current government where two of the recognition parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, have been in office for almost two years. And now, Mr President, they have come to the conclusion that the criteria of international law are not deemed to be met – what we argued already in 2012 and 2013. Mr President, I would like to I'm a little curious about what's different now from then, if not whether you're in opposition or government. It is the only factual difference that I perceive. I'm curious to know if there are others.
i-B2qciMvtU1jhRtJvz4AGE7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question! The government supports the UN's work aimed at finding a fair and mutually acceptable negotiated solution in which the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination is satisfied. We also welcome the fact that the UN Secretary-General is taking new initiatives to find a solution to the conflict, and we fully support the work of UN envoys in Western Sahara. We have already begun an intensification of support for the UN process in order to find a mutual, fair and accepted solution to the conflict. Some of the things that it can mean are strengthening the UN's efforts to facilitate a negotiated solution, continued commitment to compliance with international law, increased humanitarian aid, commitment to high-level contacts between the parties and commitment to promoting dialogue between the parties. Full force is to be put in place to support the UN process, which we believe will lead to an accepted and broad solution. Therefore, recognition at present would not be conducive to this process.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-252	Mr President, I would like to I did not hear – perhaps heard others – the answer to the question: What is the difference now as to whether the international law criteria are met? We did not believe that they were fulfilled in 2012 and 2013, while the Social Democrats and the Green Party felt so. Today they do not think so. The question is, why? What happened? Mr President, I would like to The actual difference I would like to take note of. I did not hear that in Anders Österberg's reply. Perhaps there is only one answer, and that is the difference between being in government and opposition. The Center Party is in the same position as it was then. That is why we agree on the committee's opinion in this part. Mr President, I would like to There has been talk of our support for the Peshmergan and the educational effort in Norra Iraq in the fight against Daish. It's important. It is also important that we not only support educational efforts, but that our presence also contributes to monitoring and monitoring whether there is abuse. We've seen abuse of the Peshmergan, too. Assyrians have been expelled from their villages, and the villages have been destroyed. Such fears help people to flee and perceive great threats. It is therefore important that we from the Swedish side ensure that our presence there not only supports the fight against Daish but also supports the fight against human rights abuses no matter who the abuse is committed against.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-256	Mr President, I would like to Let us all work to ensure that the struggle of the Western Sahara for self-determination produces results. That is the answer I can give Kerstin Lundgren today. I can therefore also say that we agree with the views of the previous government on this matter. As far as the peshmergan is concerned, I share Kerstin Lundgren's view. We must ensure that no abuse is committed and that no abuse is committed. Here I hope we can work together, too.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-258	Mr President, I would like to Anders Österberg said words matter. That is why we Liberals want to call the ongoing ethnic cleansing of Christians and other minorities in Iraq and Syria a genocide. I would also like to emphasise in this discussion that we are definitely not alone in politics, not in this House and not globally. The European Parliament and the US Congress have voted to call Daish's abuse of the Middle East Christians genocide. The Irish Parliament, the Lithuanian Parliament, the US Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the Pope and the UN Office for Human Rights have also made this assessment. It is not, therefore, an all-embracing view, but a broad view of both democratic parliaments and human rights organisations and human rights activists. We will not be able to meet on this issue today, but I really want to clarify this position. Anders Österberg said that words matter but that what you do is the most important thing. Sweden is not one of the most powerful and clear democratic countries in the fight against Daish's ongoing genocide when it comes to military operations on the ground. Our neighbour Denmark is doing far more, and Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the United States and others have a much more developed commitment to the front of the field. If you do not want to call this a genocide, Anders Österberg, what are you prepared to do to militaryly scale up and support those in place and standing in the front line, Kurds and others, to stop the hellish terrorism that Islamists stand for?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-264	Mr President, I would like to I thank Birgitta Ohlsson for her commitment to the region, which has been witnessed, well known and appreciated by many. Let me begin with the genocide convention. It has been criticized for being narrow and not fully usable in today's wars and conflicts. The essence is to define genocide as acts committed with the intention of totally or partially destroying an ethnic, racial, national or religious group as such. This is far too narrow. The enormous crime we see does not necessarily have to be genocide in the sense of international law. Therefore, it is not up to the Swedish Parliament to decide on this, but it is up to the ICC. That is why we are working to refer this issue to the ICC. Of course, what we use for terms and how we have defined it legally does not reduce suffering. It does not affect our responsibility to act either. This is important to me. We must do everything we can to contribute humanitarianly and politically. We must always ensure that action is taken. The designation we give the horrors should not have any practical significance. That is why I am proud of Sweden's great humanitarian aid to the region. I hope Birgitta Ohlsson will support this.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-269	Mr President, I would like to I change the subject and move to Israel and Palestine. We are all in this House in favour of peace in this classic conflict in the Middle East. For me as a Liberal, it is important to state that I want a two-state solution with a Palestinian democratic state side by side with democratic Israel, but not with the ruin of the state of Israel. Therefore, it is incredibly important to have a strong security perspective so that both states can live in peace side by side. As stressed in the debate, it is important that we have constructive dialogue, that we have pressure and that we work with various forms of cooperation to ensure that both parties sit back at the negotiating table. How constructive, then, was it that the Red-Green Government just a few weeks ago voted in favour of and supported the Unesco resolution which both questioned the historical connection of Christianity to Mount Temple and erased the existence of Judaism in this most sacred place for many Jews worldwide? This matter was prepared by Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin for being at the Ministry of Education, but the government was of course behind the decision. Was it constructive to engage in serious historical revisionism? Was it constructive to see to it that the peace process got another big hack? Unesco's head, Irina Bokova, even said that she strongly disagreed with this decision and was very critical. Was this constructive for the Israeli-Palestinian peace process?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-274	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Ohlsson for the question of Israel and Palestine. I have not taken note of the decision in UNESCO, but let me be crystal clear on one point: Jerusalem is home to Christians and Jews as well as Muslims. There must be no doubt about that. With the recognition of Palestine, a great responsibility rests with Sweden. It is a responsibility that we also take for the Palestinian Authority to combat corruption in its area, respect civil and political rights and increase women's influence. Of course, this also means rejecting violence. That is how we achieve peaceful coexistence between two states side by side.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-277	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders Österberg, who is valiantly defending the government's policy. It is not always such a grateful task. I have two questions for Anders Österberg of S ocial democrats. One is about the Syrian crisis strategy; the other is about the recognition of Palestine. As I said in my speech, we Moderates welcome the fact that the government has adopted an ambitious strategy to deal with the Syria crisis. It is good to have a clear link between humanitarian aid and development aid, precisely on the bridge between it, in order to build a more resilient society. However, we are critical of the fact that there is very little guidance on what can and should be done. How to implement this strategy in practice without having to cooperate with the Asad regime? I would like an answer from the Social Democrats on how this very ambitious strategy can be implemented in practice. My second question is about Palestine. It is no secret that we Moderates think the recognition of Palestine in autumn 2014 was unfortunate. It was done on wrong grounds, it was done prematurely and there were no counterclaims. How do the Social Democrats view this? You have confessed to the State of Palestine. At the same time, we see a great deal of responsibility that the Palestinian Authority should take that it does not take. Earlier this spring, we were together in both Israel and Palestine, and much is missing. It is a question of better compliance with democratic principles. It is about combating corruption, as Mr Österberg said. It is a question of a lack of respect for human rights. It's about linking it to a few demands. How are we gonna do that?
i-81phEoeD5frdRqcECKfhqD	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Karin Enström! As far as the Syria Strategy is concerned, Syria is an extremely complex area right now. This applies not only in Syria but also across the border with Iraq. At present, we are funding the largest parts through the UN and relieving the acute humanitarian suffering. In the long term, it is a question of working up organisations that ensure that minorities in the region also benefit from the aid. I suppose we will have to find a way forward in which we will find practical ways of resolving this issue. Now to Israel and the recognition of Palestine. There are some who claim that the recognition of Palestine was far too early. I'm rather afraid it was far too late. Once the government recognised Palestine, the government considered that the international law criteria for recognising Palestine had been met. There is a territory, albeit with undefined borders – we want to see the 1967 borders. There is a population, and there is a government capable of exercising external and internal control. In addition, the international community has judged Palestine to be sovereign, that is to say, it has responsibilities incumbent on a state. What is now the responsibility of Sweden in connection with its recognition is to ensure that Palestine develops into a democratic state that respects the equal value and right of all people. I hope that we can work forward together.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-286	Mr President, I would like to The Syria strategy and how it is to be implemented, I will ask again. I hope it will be clearer. It is because I really want to see this happen. I am absolutely convinced that we share the ambition. But then the strategy for how it can be implemented in practice must be made even clearer. It is of course extremely important to build up a resistance and – as best it can in the current situation – get a positive development. Back to the question of Palestine: we were there together, and we talked to representatives of different parts of Palestinian society and the Palestinian Authority. We were welcomed with open arms and received much praise for what Sweden has done, both the recognition and the aid we stand for. But what worries me is what we have not done. It is a great responsibility to have recognised a state. How, then, can we make demands so that we can get the Palestinian Authority going? It's hard. But we cannot – just because it is difficult – look between our fingers with the shortcomings that remain. Sweden must be much clearer here. We can, among other things, make demands linked to the extensive aid that Sweden provides. I would like to hear Anders Österberg's view on this. Should we now be satisfied and sit down, or would it not be good to be able to use all the efforts we make and at the same time make demands on the Palestinian Authority?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-289	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats are reformists, so we are never satisfied but want to work constantly to achieve equality and justice. With our recognition of the State of Palestine, we are in favour of the moderate forces in Palestine. It is extremely important that we can have constructive dialogue with them. It is also a dialogue that we are constantly pursuing with our Palestinian friends, with a view to improving and strengthening their democracy, in order to ensure that they too respect Israel and prevent acts against the State of Israel. We also believe that the recognition that Palestine will eventually benefit peace, because we think it is important that there are two equal parties. Thanks to our recognition, the parties are somewhat more equal, but Israel is still the stronger party. It is therefore a greater responsibility for Israel to take up a peace dialogue. I hope we agree on that.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-292	Mr President, I would like to The Arab Spring bore a whole generation of hopes that the ideas of enlightenment on human rights, division of power and popular rule had now finally reached the countries of the Middle East and North Africa. Almost as if it were stories from Tusen and one night freedom fighters rose right out of dungeons and into the buildings of power. A breathtaking feeling that this was almost too good to be true gripped around when corrupt despots like Tunisia's Ben Ali and Egypt's Mubarak fell. Unfortunately, however, the accidents were right, and the Arab spring soon passed this winter, with Tunisia as a hopeful exception. And, of course, we should not ignore this exception, where everything began. Tunisia may be a small country, but as the most developed nation in the Arab world there is a significant signal effect. A vibrant civil society and a moderate Islamic party that respects the newly established parliamentary democracy are among the things that have made the Arab spring continue to sprout in Tunisia. But otherwise the development in the region is gloomy, and the tiny plant of democracy has withered in country after country and left room for new authoritarian development. In some cases, countries have plunged into chaos and violent disintegration, with terrible suffering for the civilian population as a result. But we must never give up and lapse into poor attitudes that this part of the world would not be ripe for democracy – an almost total historyless one forgetting that much of the intellectual heritage of antiquity was passed on to Western Europe in the early Middle Ages by the advanced Arab cultural world, which was crucial to triggering renaissance and enlightenment in Europe. And in order not to fall into historylessness, let us also recall that the proud declaration of the French Revolution on human rights did not immediately transform European societies into democracies, but it took more than a hundred years of struggle for the eventual victory of popular rule. Mr President, I would like to What would it take for the countries of the Middle East and North Africa to return to democracy? Of course, peace is a crucial prerequisite. As long as Syria is bleeding and more than half the country's population is fleeing a civil war that has claimed more than a quarter of a million victims, there is almost a state of emergency throughout the region, with various severe consequential effects in Syria's neighbouring countries. It is valuable that the government and parliament unanimously join behind the Swedish-Italian UN mediator Staffan de Mistura and his competent circle of employees, including veteran diplomat Birgitta Holst Alani and her important work in involving women in the peace process. Peace in Syria and the stabilisation of Iraq presuppose that the Islamic State – or rather the terror sect Daish – suffers the same kind of total defeat as Hitler Germany did in 1945; with the absolute evil it is not possible to hold talks and meaningful negotiations. Daish kills senselessly Assyrians, Chaldeans, Melkits and other Christian minorities, as well as Yazidians and – not to forget – Muslims who are labeled heretics for various reasons. It is not therefore said that military action is the only thing available in the fight against Daish, but such things as strangling oil trade between Daish-controlled areas and neighbouring regions, as well as the influx of jihadists from Europe, are of exceptional importance. But a long-term sustainable peace in Syria is also not possible under Syria's current leadership. The committee is here behind the EU's position, expressed in Council conclusions of December 2015. It is important to remember that the bloodstained Asad regime, with all its security services and paramilitary violent forces, has killed in the order of ten times more unarmed women, men and also many children than Daish has had until now. In the northern parts of Syria dominated by Kurds, Rojava, there is an interesting building of equal opportunities and decentralised power in so-called cantons, where ethnic minorities are also represented in the governing bodies. However, the circumstances are extremely difficult, and Rojava is threatened by both Daish and Erdo中an's Turkey, and it is about time that Sweden and the EU showed strong solidarity with the people of Rojava. Of course, this solidarity should not be unconditional, but should commit the new regional powers in this part of Syria human rights violations, of course, this should be criticised as strongly as elsewhere. Mr President, I would like to Egypt is now consolidating something that should rightly be called a military dictatorship. Field Marshal Al-Sisi overthrowed the elected President Mursi in July 2013 and has then, after receiving 96 percent of the votes, allowed himself to be elected President, imprisoned and extrajudicially executed a large number of opponents. Only in China are more journalists behind bars. If the West wants to retain any confidence in Egyptian youth, which will of course start a new spring, then it is high time that we parliamentarians in the West started to speak out clearly about developments in Egypt. The construction of democratic institutions is a key objective of the UN's new 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development, and this objective does indeed apply to all countries in the world. It is time to finally abandon the destructive idea of the Cold War that your enemy's enemy is my friend, who made it possible for blood-defiled dictators too often to be treated with a respect that they definitely did not deserve. Mr President, I would like to In an exposé of rulers who do not deserve respect, it is difficult to avoid the Sultan in Ankara. In an increasingly senseless exercise of power, Erdo lets journalists, writers, trade unionists and student leaders be imprisoned. And the peace process with the Kurds has been transformed into war, where the Turkish army besieged cities and continuously assaults civilians in the south-east of the country. The outside world can no longer fall away from this increasingly au thoritarian leader. Mr President, I would like to In Israel and Palestine too, developments are going in the wrong direction. Knife attacks on civilians in Israel, the so-called Knife Intifada, must be strongly condemned. The most effective way to put an end to this kind of senseless violence is to restart a peace process worthy of the name. And as always, the stronger party, Israel, has the main responsibility. An immediate stop to further expansion of illegal settlements in the West Bank would be a good start. Mr President, I would like to Iran is on its way out of its international isolation, which hopefully, in the short term, increases the conditions for democratisation of the country. But for that to happen, it is of the utmost importance that Western democracies, in the joy of increased trade, do not forget to talk about human rights in meetings with regime representatives. It is also crucial that contact points with civil society in Iran are expanded. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, allow me to give a more general reflection on the use of military force and its impact on the development of society. In 2003, Bush and Blair invaded Iraq without a UN mandate and under false pretexts to disarm weapons of mass destruction. This seems today to be a dragon seed, whose bitter fruits we are now reaping. In the rubble of the Iraqi state, the terrorist organizations Al-Qaeda and Daish grew up. And when Gaddafi in Libya was bombed away, this did not lead to democracy, but to chaos and hopelessness, which also became a favourable breeding ground for extremists and terrorists. Of course, we should continue to fight dictators, but is it not time to start drawing conclusions from the fact that liberation so rarely leads to freedom but often leads instead to chaos and new oppression? Instead of bringing about regime change, change of government, by military means, perhaps it would now be time to try what peaceful methods can do. Peace research highlights successful examples of how non-military methods can prevent and combat conflicts and then start building inclusive social institutions. We need to give peace new tools.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-308	Mr President, I would like to I must start by saying that, unfortunately, I am unable to take any line because I have to change my position with Mr President. I hope Members will forgive this. I would be happy to answer any questions on another occasion. Sweden today provides substantial support to the Palestinian Authority. In connection with the very regrettable recognition of the State of Palestine by the Swedish Government, a new five-year performance strategy for bilateral development aid was launched. The strategy increased Swedish support by SEK 500 million over a five-year period, which amounts to a total of SEK 1.5 billion. Together with humanitarian aid, Sweden now contributes a total of SEK 700 million per year to Palestine. Through the EU, which is the largest donor to the Palestinian Authority, Sweden also provides tax revenue. Since 1994, EU taxpayers have donated the equivalent of SEK 50 billion to the Palestinians. The committee notes in its report that control mechanisms are in place and that aid efforts are continuously monitored. However, this is questionable. According to the former Chairman of the Palestine International Bank, Issam Abu Issa, corruption within the Palestinian Authority is enormous. Despite the promises made by President Abbas to fight corruption, almost nothing has happened. According to Abu Issa, up to half of the total Palestinian state budget disappears. In December 2013, the European Court of Auditors published a report on assistance to the Palestinian Authority. The report confirms significant shortcomings in the management of aid resources. The Court therefore called, as a direct condition for continued payments, for a functioning administration and for a reduction in red tape on the Palestinian side. The Palestinian Authority is described in the report as the only body in the world to receive EU support without any requirement for compensation. Mr President, I would like to I have been exercising for several years that Sweden should immediately cease all aid to the Palestinian Authority, because it does not require full transparency as to where the money goes and because the Palestinian Authority allows high-ranking PLO and Fatah people to put money in their own pockets, fund terrorist activities and reward imprisoned terrorists in Israel. In its report, the committee recalls that, following the 2006 Palestinian parliamentary elections, the so-called Quartet, namely the UN, the EU, the USA and Russia, stated that the Palestinian Government must recognise the right of the State of Israel to exist, endorse all agreements between Israel and the PLO, and renounce violence as a means of achieving political objectives. When the Oslo Agreement was concluded in September 1993 between the PLO and Israel, the PLO was required to amend the articles of the Palestinian National Charter which denied Israel's right to exist. For example, in 1998 Article 9 and Article 15 were removed from the 1968 Palestinian National Charter. Nevertheless, the same national statutes remain on a variety of official authority pages and Facebook pages of the Palestinian Authority. It can therefore be legitimate to assume that the 1993 agreement has never really been up to date for the Palestinian side to comply with. The overall objective of the Palestinians to annihilate the State of Israel and that no Jewish state should exist remains within the Palestinian Authority. This is also borne out by a great many other events, statements and actions. The fact that Hamas does not agree with the agreements concluded between the PLO and Israel is very clear to everyone. But neither is Fatah fully behind the agreements. It is clear when one speaks of Israel as a Jewish state, as has been the intention ever since Unscop's proposal in 1947 for the formation of an Arab and a Jewish state from the remaining British Palestine mandate. In an interview with a Washington-based Middle East news site a few years ago, President Abbas declared that it will not recognise a so-called Jewish state because of the recognition of Israel since the Oslo Accord in the days of Arafat and Rabin. So these are empty words being painted and a double game being played for Western countries in order to obtain recognition and billions in aid. And the Swedish government is so naive that it goes right into the trap. Mr President, I would like to It is not only corruption that is widespread with the Palestinian Authority. Anti-Semitism and the celebration of acts of terror are very tangible. Let me take a few examples to illustrate this. The text book The Foundations of Faith in Islamic Studies, published by the Palestinian Ministry of Education, writes: Fight against the Jews and victory over them: Allah's messengers have already announced the end of Jewish oppression of the country and the removal of their corruption and conquest of it. Furthermore, Gud's messengers said that the resurrection will not come until the Muslims fight the Jews. The Muslims will kill them, and when a Jew hides behind a rock or tree, the rock or tree says: O Muslim, O worshipper of Gud, there is a Jew behind me, come and kill him. The Palestinian children's television of 22 March 2013 portrayed the Jews as the offspring of pigs, murdering children with rifles and cutting off arms and legs with stones and knives, and rape women in the neighborhood corner. The question is asked where the Jihad warriors are and where the fear of Allah is in Jerusalem that is tainted by the Zionists. Of course, everyone understands that when young children and students are subjected to this kind of thing, hatred is cultivated. And that is clearly exactly what the Palestinian Authority wants. In spite of the 1993 agreement, where one of the demands was to reject terrorism and other forms of violence, the opposite has been done. Palestinian television continues to pay homage to people who have committed acts of terror. Anti-Semitic messages about a better world without Israel and Jews may also be spread on Palestinian television. On January 9, 2012, the celebration of Fatah's formation was broadcast on television. The official mufti of the Palestinian Authority then spoke of our war against the descendants of monkeys and pigs. The Palestinian Authority not only encourages acts of terrorism, but also rewards people who kill Jews by giving them a month's salary during their time in Israeli prisons which is four times higher than what Palestinians earn from jobs in areas controlled by the Palestinian Authority. Mr President, I would like to The conflict with Israel does not consist in fighting around a country of its own. When the British Palestine Mandate ended in 1948, the Arabs had already, in 1922, acquired their own state in Jordan, which became independent in 1946. It was obviously not enough because immediately when Israel proclaimed independence, Israel was attacked. Instead, the conflict is based on the very existence of the state of Israel and the existence of a Jewish state. The ultimate goal is to eliminate the Jewish state and establish a Palestinian state throughout the area. The demonization and dehumanization of the Zionists, the Jews in general and Israel in particular, and the settlers above all else, continues. Terrorists are portrayed as heroes and role models. I believe that every government has a duty to condemn and combat terror at all stages, wherever it occurs and who the victims are. Unfortunately, this is not happening today with either the present socialist or the former bourgeois government. I note that, unfortunately, at the moment, I and my party belong to a minority in parliament standing up for the State of Israel and the Jewish people. Of course, I support all our reservations in this report, but I would ask for the approval of reservation 8. I apologise for exceeding my registered speaking time.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-329	Mr President, I would like to I intended to shift the focus to a conflict that has been going on for too long and which is being debated too little, namely that of Western Sahara. I would like to endorse Amendment No 13. On 5 December 2012, the Riksdag decided that Sweden should promptly recognise the Saharian Arab Democratic Republic – Western Sahara – as a free and independent state. The Swedish Parliament also decided that Sweden should work for this within the EU as well. The decision was the result of many years of work, both inside and outside the Riksdag, for Swedish recognition. The Left Party has been proposing for several years that Sweden should recognise Western Sahara and supported the proposal. Despite Parliament's clear decisions, we are still waiting for the government to implement it. The bourgeois government chose to delay the Riksdag's decision, and the current government announced in January 2016 that it will not comply with the Riksdag's decision. The Left Party considers it very spectacular that the government chooses to oppose a clear announcement from the Riksdag. Through the 2012 decision, the Riksdag has made its position known and expressed its opinion, and we have therefore seen no reason to make new claims in the Riksdag for recognition of Western Sahara after the 2012 decision. Instead, the Left Party has been working since 2012 to ensure that the Government complies with Parliament's decisions, and we will continue to do so until the Government chooses to respect Parliament's position and recognise Western Sahara. I recently visited the Sahrawi refugee camps in the Sahara Desert in southern Algeria, where people have lived in difficult conditions for over 40 years. Everyone I met, from the woman in the tent to the Sahrawi Foreign Minister, expressed the hope that Sweden, as the first Western country, will take the lead and recognise Western Sahara. A recognition would give the refined Sahrawi people an increased faith in the future and fortify peace and security in the region. It would also advance Western Sahara's position in the negotiations. The decision not to recognise is based on an investigation by Fredrik Florén, which is largely classified. I find that remarkable. I find it difficult to accept that neither I, as a Member of Parliament nor journalists and opinion-makers, have access to this important document. Recently, a large number of political prisoners from Western Sahara ended a hunger strike that resulted in the death of a prisoner. These prisoners are sentenced in military courts, after torture, to between 20 years and life imprisonment. Western Saharas remaining in the occupied part of the country are subjected to systematic and well-documented violations of human rights, as confirmed by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, among others. Florén's summary shows that the investigator has not visited the occupied Western Sahara. There is reason to wonder how the rapporteur has been able to create a correct picture of the situation in the occupied Western Sahara without visiting the area. Fredrik Florén has also not met representatives of the African Union. Western Sahara – or the Saharian Arab Democratic Republic, SADR – is a member of the Union, which is a very important political player for regional cooperation in Africa. This, too, seems to me to be a shortcoming of the report. Claims that there are no criteria of international law for recognition have a central place in the part of the investigation that is public and has also been made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in various contexts. As recently as November, three of the world's top experts in international law and international law wrote at DN Debate that international law does not prevent the recognition of Western Sahara; on the contrary, the legal conditions are similar to those that existed when we recognised Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Palestine. It is very remarkable that a single investigator comes to the contrary. It is also remarkable that the government is making its decision in the light of an investigation with such major shortcomings. Mrs Wallström said in our recent interpellation debate that Sweden supports the Security Council's decision and the renewed efforts now being made to find a fair, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that meets the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination. But it is clear that Morocco is not interested in a common solution. Instead, Morocco is doing everything to sabotage and complicate the work of the United Nations. During the spring, Morocco has escalated the conflict since the United Nations Secretary-General used the concept A large demonstration, involving government representatives, was held in Rabat, Morocco. Pictures of Ban Ki Moon were torn apart, and slogans were shouted at him as a person. Since then, Morocco has shut down important UN functions in Western Sahara and called for 84 international UN officials to leave the country. Sweden should condemn Morocco's actions against the UN Secretary-General and the UN as an institution and work to ensure that the existing ceasefire is not broken. For 23 years, the Security Council has been trying to implement a decolonisation plan for Western Sahara, a plan accepted by both the Polisario Front and Morocco in 1991. It is a disaster that the outside world has allowed the occupation to last for so many years. If Morocco refuses to negotiate, the Security Council must finally act. The UN Security Council can use cap. 7 of the UN Charter, forcing a solution and setting the date of the referendum. It is important that Sweden acts with vigour and actively participates in such a solution. It is also important for Sweden to act in order to extend the mandate of the UN monitoring force Minurso to include human rights. It is also important that Sweden defend Western Sahara's right to its natural resources. Against this background, it is strange that Sweden joins the EU Member States' appeal against the Court of Justice's decision to suspend all trade agreements with Morocco which include products from the part of Western Sahara occupied by Morocco. Sweden should ensure that international law is respected and continue to work to exclude Western Sahara from trade agreements with Morocco. Finally, humanitarian aid for the refugee camps must be increased, particularly in view of the fact that in autumn 2015, the camps suffered a severe natural disaster which left 11 000 families homeless. However, support is also needed for the part of Western Sahara that is freed and under the control of Polisarios itself.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-343	Mr President, I would like to It is now over a hundred years since the genocide of 1915 took place. Over 1.5 million Christians were killed. It was Syrians, Armenians, Assyrians, Chaldeans and Pontic Greeks who were systematically killed during the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire in the present Turkey. They were killed because of their ethnicity and because of their Christian faith. The goal was to achieve a country with a single ethnicity and with Islam as a religion. In 2010, the Swedish Parliament recognised the genocide in 1915, and over 40 other countries have recognised it. Mr President, I would like to A new genocide is now taking place in Syria and Iraq on the descendants of the victims of the 1915 genocide. For the first time in over 1,700 years, church bells do not ring in the area, and Christian citizens no longer dare to celebrate Christian festivals and traditions. Mr President, I would like to The so-called Arab spring started about six years ago in Tunisia. It began as a popular uprising against social injustice, corruption and autocracy, but has developed into an ongoing civil war on power in several countries in North Africa and the Middle East. Millions of people have been forced to flee, and hundreds of thousands have been killed. In the midst of the ongoing struggle for government power, where Sunni and Shia Muslims make claims for power with the help of fellow believers in countries from the region, Islamic terror groups have been given room to grow. The terrorist group, the Islamic State, has proclaimed a caliphate in parts of Syria and Iraq. It now controls large areas of land. The objective of the Islamic State is an Islamic society based on an extremist interpretation of Islam. In the midst of this chaotic situation, there is a new genocide and systematic cleansing of the Christian inhabitants who are being driven by violence from their homelands in Syria and Iraq. Forced conversion, murder and kidnapping are used as weapons. Women and children are raped and sold as sex slaves. Cultural history buildings, churches and monasteries are destroyed and their property confiscated by the Islamic State. Mr President, I would like to After several years of systematic persecution, the number of Christian inhabitants in Iraq and Syria has been decimated. Over 2 million Christian inhabitants have been forced by force to flee their homes. In June and July 2014, over 200,000 Christian inhabitants and several hundred thousand Yazidi were forced to leave Iraq's largest city of Mosul and the Nineveh region for just a few days. They faced an ultimatum of the Islamic State to convert to Islam or die. The Islamic State had marked the house of all Christians and then attacked them. Christians were forced to flee to the Kurdish region in northern Iraq. They now live there as refugees under difficult conditions. I have personally visited the area and seen the terrible misery in which they live. Mr President, I would like to Every day acts committed against Christian residents and other ethno-eligenous minorities with a view to the complete or partial destruction of their existence meet the criteria for genocide set out in the 1948 United Nations Convention on Genocide. On 4 February, the European Parliament voted through a resolution on the initiative of Mr Lars Adaktusson, MEP of the Christian Democrats. The resolution notes that the Islamic State's abuse of minorities such as Syrians, Chaldeans, Assyrians and Armenians, as well as Yazidians in Iraq and Syria, is genocide. The resolution was adopted by a large majority calling the abuse by its right name, namely genocide. It was a historic decision that hopefully will lead to support and help for the vulnerable to live in peace and freedom and in democracy. The House of Representatives in the US Congress has also recognised the ongoing genocide during the month of March. The Senate in the United States will later this year take a stand on the genocide issue and hopefully it will also recognise the genocide. In addition, national parliaments have begun to act and assume their political responsibilities. For example, both the Lithuanian Parliament and the Irish Parliament have recognised the genocide. Mr President, I would like to What is strange and I cannot accept is the unwillingness of the Swedish Government to recognise the genocide. Despite all reports of the systematic abuse aimed at annihilating Christians in Syria and Iraq, the government refuses to recognise the genocide. This disappoints me deeply. Therefore, I wonder: What is the Swedish Government really waiting for, and what is required for the government to recognise the ongoing genocide? Daily, crimes of international law are witnessed through social media, television news and so on, where the Islamic State deprives people of their lives because they are Christians and they want to destroy them and banish them from the area. Public decapitation, people who are burned alive and witnesses who tell about the horrors they have been subjected to on a daily basis do not seem to be proof enough for the Swedish government and parliament. All the thousands of refugees who have sought asylum in our country and who have fled from this terrible terror bear witness to the atrocities that are taking place. They do not lie about the situation. There is sufficient evidence that the Islamic State's abuse of Christians and Yazidians is a genocide. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish government and all other parliamentary parties except the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats believe they know better than the European Parliament and the American House of Representatives in Congress. These parties, for some reason, choose to turn a blind eye to reality and today refuse to recognise the genocide and are therefore calling for my motion to be rejected for recognition of the genocide. To the Swedish Government and to the parties which today refuse to recognise the genocide, let me say the following. Do not let down the afflicted and helpless! They need our solidarity and help to survive. Don't let down all the new Swedes and their families who have been affected and who are still being abused daily! Take your political responsibility and call things their true names! Calling the abuse genocide is important and commits to international action. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is taking a major humanitarian responsibility, and I am proud of that. But solidarity and humanity are not just humanitarian aid or having a humane refugee policy. In some situations, more courageous political decisions are needed to help victims on the ground. Here I lack the power of action from the Swedish Government, which is now hiding behind legal concepts, while the European Parliament, the US Congress and other national parliaments act and acknowledge the genocide. By recognising genocide, there is an obligation to intervene humanitarianly and militarily and also to bring those responsible to justice and to condemn the crimes against humanity. The victims and their relatives will then receive redress and historical confirmation. Not least, international action can deter future genocide. In addition, the European Parliament's decision on the recognition of ongoing genocide has raised hopes of a new future for those affected who wish to return to their homelands. However, it requires the United Nations Security Council to assume its responsibilities and take out the Islamic State and secure the areas affected. Mr President, I would like to It is important that the UN also recognises the systematic killing as a genocide. It would activate the UN principle of responsibility to protection, which imposes a collective obligation on the international community to take the necessary measures to protect vulnerable groups. In other words, in order to achieve concerted international action, the issue of genocide must be raised in the UN Security Council for decision. Mr President, I would like to A great responsibility rests on each and every one of us politicians, and not least on the government, to pay attention to the genocide that is now taking place against Christian minorities in Syria and Iraq. In order to achieve a binding decision on genocide in international law in the UN Security Council, national governments must assume their responsibilities and act politically and raise the issue to the UN Security Council. After recognition, the UN has an obligation to intervene militarily and to refer the perpetrators to the International Criminal Court in The Hague in order to condemn the perpetrators of crimes of international law. Mr President, I would like to I have written this motion that is being discussed today so that the Swedish parliament and government will act to save lives. Action by the UN Security Council is needed to protect vulnerable minorities. In order to raise this important issue and to get the government to act, I have submitted two written questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in recent months – this to follow developments following the decisions of the European Parliament and the US Congress on the recognition of the genocide. I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she will work to ensure that the government and the UN Security Council recognise the genocide of Christian and other ethnic minorities. I then put similar questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs during Question Time in this House. Mr President, I would like to The foreign minister's answer to my questions is a great disappointment. The government does not want to take its political responsibility and work to protect the peoples who are victims of genocide. Mrs Wallström is not ready to acknowledge the genocide, but she acknowledges that there is a serious abuse of ethnorelic minorities. The government has not yet decided on the legal name of the abuse, and while the government seeks a legal name for the abuse, people are killed every day because of their religious affiliation or belief. The government today refuses to call the abuses genocide, despite all the evidence and documentation. Last week, more than 50 mass graves were found in Iraq in areas previously controlled by the Islamic State. Mr President, I would like to We need to act now to save lives. I expect the Swedish Government to raise the issue to the UN General Assembly in order for the issue to be passed on to the UN Security Council. As a UN member, the Swedish Government may request that the matter be placed directly on the Security Council's agenda. Mr President, I would like to In the European Parliament, all Swedish MEPs, apart from the Left Party Member, voted for recognition. I thought it was self-evident that the Swedish political parties who voted for recognition in the European Parliament would vote in the same way in the Swedish Parliament. Unfortunately, we note that the majority of the parliamentary parties today refuse to recognise ongoing genocide and have no interest in working to stop the terrorist organisation Islamic State's abuse of Christians and other ethnic minorities. These parliamentary parties do not take their political responsibility to stop the abuse, but reject political and moral responsibility by not finding the right legal name for the gross abuse and crimes of international law that are going on. They also believe that Parliament is not the right forum for genocide issues, while other national parliaments, the European Parliament and the US Congress recognise the ongoing genocide. Mr President, I would like to Right now, while we are discussing the issue in this House, genocide is taking place against Christians in Syria and Iraq. The Christian center, where Christianity was born, is being emptied of Christianity. The terrible acts of which the Islamic State daily exposes Christians and other ethnic minorities must be stopped, and the guilty must be held accountable. Mr President, I would like to The genocide must be stopped. Anything else would be a historical betrayal. Call the persecution and abuse by their proper names, namely genocide! Today you have the chance to vote to save thousands of lives. You have the chance to give the victims a new opportunity to return to their homes. You have the chance to prosecute those who commit these terrible abuses. The least we can do for those affected is recognise the abuses as genocide, work for the UN Security Council to recognise the genocide and demand international action to stop this human tragedy. I support the reservations of the Christian Democrats 5 and 6. (Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I should like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that the speaking time used exceeded the time of the report by more than 50%. )
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-380	Mr President, I would like to I very much appreciate Robert Halef's commitment to persecuted Christians in the Middle East. Robert Halef's voice is important to highlight what is happening to Christians in the Middle East. There are reasons, I think, for being clear in this debate that the Center Party voted in favour of this in the European Parliament. Our position is that genocide is committed. But it is not up to this House, it is not up to Parliament and the government to judge. For this we have courts. Do not confuse the picture of our position! The Center Party considers genocide to be ongoing. And it is going on, Mr President, although other parliaments have voted in favour of what Robert Halef is proposing. Both the United States and the United Kingdom, two permanent members of the Security Council, have voted in this way. Nevertheless, the genocide is under way now, as Robert Halef says. Then we can consider whether what Robert Halef wants, namely that the Riksdag should judge and not leave it to the courts, makes any difference in substance. That's my one question. What difference will it make if the Riksdag judges and does not leave it to the courts? Then, of course, I wonder: has the UN Security Council not already received directives or requests to hand the matter over to the ICC?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-384	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the last question is that the UN Security Council has not yet been asked to recognise the genocide of Christians and other ethnic minorities in Syria and Iraq at its table. That is precisely why I have written this motion, and that is why the Christian Democrats pushed this issue through in a resolution in the European Parliament. We want it to come up on the table in the UN Security Council for decisions that oblige the UN to act internationally to knock out IS and thus also contribute what is needed to ensure the survival of Christians and other ethnic groups in Syria and Iraq. With regard to the position of the Centre Party in the European Parliament, I mentioned earlier that all parties in the Swedish Parliament except the Left Party voted in favour of this resolution. However, I wonder whether Kerstin Lundgren has read the resolution. It states that national parliaments are expected to assume their responsibilities and act in order for the genocide issue to be taken forward. I do not think that Kerstin Lundgren's position in this House today is consistent with the resolution adopted by the European Parliament. If we in the Swedish Parliament call on our government to raise the issue to the UN Security Council, the issue will be discussed. Once the Security Council has reached the same conclusion as the European Parliament and the US Congress, the International Criminal Court will also act on the matter. But it's a genocide that's going on now. Action is needed today. We are not going to take the matter to the International Criminal Court for investigation, but action is required today. We therefore want the Swedish Government to act in the UN Security Council for recognition and action.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-388	Mr President, I would like to Surely Sweden is acting. The Center Party is acting. We have been clear in this debate and we are clear in our opinion. We believe that the issue should be brought to the Security Council to be handed over from there to either the ICC or a special tribunal. We are clear that if there are people in Sweden who have participated in genocide, they should be judged according to our laws, not by decisions in the Swedish Parliament. That is our constitutional order, and that is our starting point. I can't help but think. I hear what confidence there is in the Security Council, but it is only when a solution is found that the issue is put directly on the table of the Security Council. The fact that the EU has called on the Security Council to take the matter to the ICC is a clear signal. The UN does not judge, and the Security Council does not judge. They leave it to the court or tribunal to hear it. Mr President, I would like to In fact, we have decisions in a number of parliaments, but have we seen any difference? Has the genocide been stopped? Is that an example that solves the problems we see? If Robert Halef has understood that picture, it would be interesting to see it. There are examples: the European Parliament, the US Congress and the UK have done what Robert Halef says they want to do. There's a chance it's just a sign.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-391	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren! When the UN Security Council decides that genocide is taking place, there is a duty to act. There is an obligation in the Convention on Genocide to prevent, to act and to prevent it from occurring. The UN Security Council has a great responsibility to act militarily to eliminate this evil, the Islamic State, which we are talking about. Mr President, I would like to I think Kerstin Lundgren is confusing the issues. In the past, Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs has referred to Sweden's referral to the UN Security Council in response to certain questions I have put to her on this question. Here we need to distinguish between the questions. Sweden has referred the issue of Syria's regime's responsibility for what is happening in Syria to the UN Security Council. We are talking about ongoing genocide that is documented and proven. The European Parliament and the US Congress have come to this conclusion. Then, as a Member of Parliament and the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats, I demand that the Swedish Government act and put this issue on the table of the UN Security Council for discussion and decision in order to stop the genocide and killing of Christians and other ethnic ethnic groups.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-394	Mr President, I would like to I'll admit, I wasn't planning on taking a line on Robert Halef. However, when Robert Halef chooses to say the wrong things in the speaker's chair repeatedly, I do not have much choice. Robert Halef has now repeatedly said that the Left Party did not vote in favour of the resolution in the European Parliament. That's not true. Our MEP Malin Björk voted in favour of the resolution. That's where you're wrong, Robert. While I have the floor, I would like to take this opportunity to say that there is something in the rhetoric of the Christian Democrats that does not really stick together. Robert Halef says time and again that we must act. I fully agree that we must act to stop the violence in Syria and Iraq and act to give those fleeing refuge. That is not the conclusion of the Christian Democrats. You are now doing the utmost to prevent people from escaping and getting refuge. The Christian Democrats have supported the agreement that the EU has signed with Turkey. This means that the Assyrians, Syrians, Yazidians and others fleeing Daish's violence face a closed Turkish border. If they succeed in crossing that border, there is an imminent risk that they will either be sent back or put in detention camps in different parts of Turkey. It is a policy that the Christian Democrats have actively supported. You have supported sending multi-billion dollars to Mr Erdo 中an in order for him to act as a border police force for the European Union. I'm having a hard time understanding that. We know that in the past we have opened our country and offered a sanctuary for Assyrians, Syrians, Chaldeans and Armenians in our country. I see in my hometown all the Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans that are an important part of my city. I see the newly inaugurated Syrian Orthodox Church of St.Gabriel in Gothenburg, which is an important part of my city. We've offered a sanctuary before. Why can't we do it again, Robert Halef? Why should we close the line for those who flee without the genocide?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-399	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hans Linde. I am grateful for your commitment to my people's group and for our rights and freedoms in Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq and so on. You've been involved in these issues for a long time. According to the report I have received, the left-wing bloc of the European Parliament has not voted in favour of the resolution. That's what I'm assuming. If we look at the refugee situation, the Dublin agreement almost no longer applies. It is not followed by any countries. We have had an unsustainable refugee situation in which many countries in the European Union do not accept their responsibilities. From the Swedish side we do our best. I am proud that we have a humane refugee policy. We're not closing any boundaries. But we need a controlled refugee situation. That's what we work for. It's not like we're closing boundaries. We do not say no to people seeking asylum in our country. Those who meet the criteria may stay, and those who do not meet the criteria may leave room for those who have the right to escape all persecution and oppression.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-402	Mr President, I would like to It is true – as I have reiterated in the debate, Robert Halef – that the left-wing group in the European Parliament voted against. I am the first to regret that. We were very critical of that decision. However, our MEP Malin Björk chose to oppose her own group and vote in favour of the resolution. She did so because we think this issue is so important. We think it is important to establish that it is a genocide. It is a pity that the Christian Democrats ignore and make it invisible. In this serious situation, we cannot really afford to do this kind of squabble. We need to work together to stop the genocide. No, Robert Halef, what you advocate is not a controlled refugee situation. No one can say enough that what we are now seeing in Turkey and receiving daily reports of closed borders, detention camps and that people are sporadicly being sent back from Turkey would be a controlled refugee situation. I do not understand these concerns. We took enormous responsibility in the 70s when many Assyrians and Syrians came to Sweden. Today, many of us are grateful. They have made our country richer and contributed to our societies, our politics, our economy and our society. They are an important part of Swedish society today. No one would look back and say: The Assyrian and Syrian refugees who came are a burden. Of course, we can offer a sanctuary again. We are one of the richest countries in the world, Robert Halef. I do not understand why it is so important for the Christian Democrats to work to close the borders. We have a choice. In a time later this spring, we will vote on whether to restrict the possibility of family reunification. What will the Christian Democrats say then? Do you want to divide or unite Assyrian and Syrian families coming to Sweden from Syria? You have even gone so far as to demand the establishment of detention camps at the Swedish border. Why should a Nazi woman who has fled the terror in the Middle East be placed in a refugee camp, an detention camp outside Malmö when she comes to Sweden?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-408	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the last question is that it is precisely to control those who come to our country. Those who have the right to asylum will receive asylum and will enter the country. We need to be able to control the huge influx that has at least been in last year. We are in favour of a humane refugee policy. According to the UN Convention, there are criteria. The people who meet those criteria should of course be allowed to stay here regardless of the Syrians, Muslims, Christians, Yazidians, homosexuals, blacks, whites and so on. It has absolutely no meaning. The equal, unique and inviolable value of all human beings shall apply in all contexts. We have wars in Syria, wars in Yemen and wars in some North African countries. Other than that, there's trafficking. It is people who have put in systems to make money by smuggling people to Europe. Then it is very important that we have a controlled situation in which we allow the people who have the right to asylum in. Those who are not entitled to asylum should be rejected at the border. That is what we are trying to achieve. It is a question of continuing humane refugee policy. Of course, anyone who escapes and has the right to asylum should be able to stay. But there are those who do not have the right to stay in Sweden and buy tickets from smugglers and others. There are quite a few of them. Today there are up to 80 000 who have been refused their applications. In order to reduce this process, you should have a controlled refugee policy so that the people who have the right to stay, need a roof over their heads and escape persecution will be allowed to stay in our country.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-413	Mr President, I would like to The Middle East and North Africa are a vast and populous region that holds everything between hope and deepest despair. The debate today shows some of the seriousness and difficulties that characterise the region in many ways right now. The report is comprehensive, and there are many things I would like to highlight. However, I must, like the other speakers, give great priority. The process of democratisation we have seen in the region has gone in different directions. But when dreams of democracy are transformed into chaos and disintegration, we must remain and support those who still want to see development, who want to dream and who want democracy. It is particularly important to continue to support gender equality and women's rights. It is not okay for women and girls to be hit harder by war and conflict or for the public space to be smaller and for the future to be worse for them. Women can be key actors of change. We have a great responsibility to make visible how women and girls are affected and to support the work for women's rights. Mr President, I would like to According to the UN, Western Sahara is the last non-colonialized territory in Africa. Morocco occupies two thirds of Western Sahara. It is an occupation that is contrary to international law. We support the government's view that, in accordance with international law, the Sahrawi people have the right to self-determination. The government supports the UN's efforts to find a fair and mutually acceptable negotiated solution to the conflict in Western Sahara. Such a solution must satisfy the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination. Recent developments in UN-Minurso-Morocco relations are worrying. We hope for early normalisation in view of the central role of the UN and MINURSO in the Western Sahara conflict. The Government supports the extension by the UN Security Council of the mandate of Mr Minurso in Western Sahara. It is essential that the civilian component of Minurso should be allowed to return to Western Sahara as soon as possible. Sweden has increased humanitarian aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps. In addition to the comprehensive core support that Sweden provides to UNHCR and World Food Programme, Sida decided earlier this year to increase humanitarian support to the Sahrawi refugees to more than SEK 15 million. The decision means that Swedish humanitarian aid to Sahrawi refugees in 2016 is expected to be the most extensive in several years. The solution to the conflict must be political. The status quo is not an option, nor is it a militarisation. The UN Secretary-General's initiative to find a political solution to the conflict is very positive. We fully support the work of the Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Western Sahara, Christopher Ross. International cooperation is so much greater than mere relations between states. The question of Western Sahara remains important for the Social Democrats. The party is committed to the people of Western Sahara and has contacts with our sister party Polisario and its representatives in Sweden. We seem to have continued in accordance with the Congress decision. The Social Democrats will continue to work towards the end of Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara. Finally, Mr President, Tahir Square became the symbol of budding democratic longing. But it also became a place where women were repeatedly subjected to sexual violence and harassment. Women's ability to participate in protests was reduced, and their access to public space was reduced. We see it in more places. A united committee in several parts of the report stresses the importance of promoting women's rights wherever they are violated. Human rights are also women's rights – in war and conflict as well as in the building and development of society and the family, in Palestine, Iraq, Syria, Iran and Egypt. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-422	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria, for raising the question of Western Sahara! I think it is important that we debate it. I would like to ask you how you view the referendum – the referendum that was decided on in 1991 and on which both parties agreed at the time. It's crucial. I see the referendum as extremely important in order to move forward on this issue. Then the UN must put its foot down and really decide on the referendum so that it comes about. How do you see it? I would also like to ask you how you view Sweden's appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union to suspend the trade agreement with Morocco which includes products from Western Sahara.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-425	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. A referendum is extremely central to the discussion. We support the work that the UN is now doing to bring this about. The parties are a long way from each other, and we need to get talks started and get the process back on track. We cannot continue in the current situation. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of lock-ups on the referendum. But we are doing everything we can to support the UN's efforts to bring about a good process. As far as the European Court of Justice and the appeal are concerned, we think it is positive that we have a judgment in a higher court of law so that we can get the whole thing clarified and know what the situation is. That is why we chose to join here – in order to have a proper judicial review of the agreement.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-427	Mr President, I would like to Am I right to interpret you, Maria? Will Sweden act to ensure that the referendum takes place and that a date for it will be set? As you say, it is clear that Morocco will not voluntarily agree to this. That is why the UN must act and simply force a solution for the referendum to take place. As far as the Court's decision is concerned, I find it a little strange that Sweden appealed against the judgment, which was nevertheless quite clear. I think it is important for Sweden to ensure that international law is truly respected and that efforts are continued to exclude Western Sahara from the trade agreement with Morocco. Is that your opinion, too?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-429	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the referendum, our view is that we should support the UN process in every way we can. Sweden does not really have a position that means that we will be able to be the people in place who run the work. On the other hand, we will support the work of the United Nations in every way we can in order to move forward and overcome the obstacles that exist. On the question of the appeal, it is quite clear that we want this to be tested in a higher judicial body in order to obtain a better and more binding ruling. I dropped your question a little bit, I have to say. However, I can say that you interpreted me correctly when it comes to the importance of having a stable legal basis on which to stand.
i-GCvh8cuRRht1NXNRQU55Z1	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to deal with the Transport Committee's report No 14 on aviation issues. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 6 on Bromma airport and the proposal made by the Committee on Transport and Tourism in the other paragraphs of the report. A well-functioning air traffic is important for many parts of our country. It is important as part of a coherent transport system – not as an independent part, but as part of several. Sweden differs from many other European countries in that we are a geographically fairly large country, but we are also a sparsely populated country. Although the country has this structure, we have a clear ambition to be able to live throughout the country. Companies should be able to establish themselves anywhere and still reach important markets and have good, fast and efficient communications to, for example, Stockholm. Against this background, I fully understand the concerns of regional and local actors in terms of access to good air connections. The continuity and predictability of the right to provide public support to airports in Sweden have much to wish for. Basically, these are EU state aid rules that make it difficult and bureaucratic. It is perhaps no wonder that it has become so in a Europe that has very much sung the praise of the market. I have to say that sometimes it feels more important to check that public funds are not used for important social functions where a market could theoretically arise than that the social functions themselves can function. However, I think it is a debate that we need to take at another time, but I think it is an important debate. What is important for Sweden is that we ensure that our special conditions get understanding when trials against state aid regulations are made. That is what we are doing towards the European Union. But it is also important that Swedish authorities handle the issue with a great understanding of the concerns and situation of airports. This is particularly true in the context of contacts with small airports, which often have limited administrative resources. The report deals with motions relating to the need for a Swedish aviation strategy. It is gratifying to note that such a strategy is being developed. The Government plans to present the strategy in 2016. What I have personally seen from this work shows a broad process of anchoring in which all interested parties have been heard. Work is now under way to develop proposals for a strategy on this basis. One of the issues on which the government has so far worked intensively, including with regard to the EU, is the social conditions in aviation. It is clear how a number of airlines, through employment conditions and social regulation shopping, are trying to reduce their costs. I think there is a great deal of agreement in this House that we should work towards this development. But then it is important that we are clear in all contexts, not least internationally. It was therefore with some surprise that I noted, among other things, the Moderates' rejection of an initiative by the Nordic Council to call on the Nordic governments to: Initiating a review of aviation conditions linked to aviation safety, employment conditions and fair competition; and to take joint initiatives to highlight the issue of aviation safety and working conditions at the Nordic, European and international levels. I hope that the Moderates' rejection of these initiatives was about something other than being against the work. However, I would appreciate it if we in this House could show a consensus on the very important issues for aviation – these are issues that are important in preserving the labour market model that we have fought to maintain in our country. Another issue affected by the report, which has been much debated for many years, is the issue of Bromma airport being or not being. I believe that this is an issue that has come to be a little unhappily more about what the government can and must not do than about the basic issue itself. There are announcements from this House both that a negotiating officer on this matter should not be appointed and that efforts should be made to further develop Bromma. Those announcements have been taken care of by the government. Among other things, they changed the assignment to the state coordinator Anders Sundström. I know that there are different opinions as to whether this meant that the announcements were accepted or not. But I think we need to move forward in that debate. In connection with Anders Sundström's presentation of his report on Arlanda, we could read comments in Dagens Industri which clearly made it clear that this was the only real solution and that there was no problem with the closure of Bromma if Arlanda could cope with the increased capacity. Those statements didn't come from the investigator himself. They did not come from government representatives, and they did not come from Stockholm City Hall. The statements came from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I think it shows a focus on what is important in this matter, namely the availability of connections to and from Stockholm for the whole country and the closure of an issue that has created uncertainty and conflict for many years. If it can also be combined with us enabling increased housing construction in Stockholm, I am sure it is a winning issue both for the Stockholm region and for the other regions of the country. I think it would be a pity if we, who are now sitting in this House, lock ourselves in our positions to the point where we are unable to see that after 2038 the air infrastructure does not necessarily have to look as it does today. I am not counting on any openings from the alliance parties in this debate, nor do I think that the alliance parties are counting on any changes in my position in this debate. However, it would be welcome to conduct the debate at a level that does not further lock us in positions but rather enables broad agreements to be reached in the future on important aviation issues. I think it is important, not least for the future development of Arlanda. Finally, let me say a few words about drones, the type of drone in the air. I believe that we all share the same concern about what might happen with regard to the development of drones and their impact on air safety. It is therefore gratifying to see that measures are now being taken within the framework of the joint EU work but also within the framework of the Swedish Transport Agency's work here in Sweden. It is a good thing that the issue is lifted, because, while we see the risks of an increased number of drones in the airspace, we are also increasingly seeing the positive uses of drones. A concrete example was a train accident in Malmö a few weeks ago. A train had derailed at the railway yard in Malmö, and it was a tank of hazardous waste. The rescue services used a drone to inspect the tank. This is, of course, an area of use that does not jeopardise the safety of emergency personnel. And the work was probably much faster than it would have done if you had done otherwise. I believe that there are numerous examples of positive uses in commercial, public and private life. It's a development that we're going to embrace. But we must also be able to deal with the risks. With this in mind, Mr President, I would once again like to endorse Amendment No 6 and also to endorse the committee's proposal in the report.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-448	Mr President, I would like to In this motion report, we are dealing with a number of issues relating to aviation. Issues related to aviation strategy, regional airports and Bromma airport are raised. I will mainly stick to the issues I have mentioned. The proposal from the Transport Committee is also that the Riksdag should send an announcement to the government about Bromma airport – again. Sweden is a large and sparsely populated country. Despite the cold climate and a vulnerable geographical location on the outskirts of Europe, Sweden has become one of the richest countries in the world through trade with other countries. This makes us extremely dependent on being able to travel quickly long distances, both within and beyond the borders of the country. For a large part of those transports, there is no alternative to aviation. Some parties see aviation only as an environmental problem to be combated. These parties want to introduce air taxes and generally increase the cost of travel and make it more difficult for people to travel at reasonable cost. Unfortunately, Sweden has such politicians in the government today. 80 000 people in Sweden have their job thanks to their flights. And many more depend on the operation of the flight. Passengers arriving in our country spend SEK 60 billion annually here. It creates even more jobs across Sweden. A well-developed and functioning domestic flight is needed for the whole of Sweden to be able to live and continue to develop. We should take the environmental challenges in aviation as seriously as we do in all other sectors of society. Much has been done and much is done to reduce the environmental and climate impact of aviation. And the alliance parties want to go even further. A majority of the Swedish parliament, on the initiative of the alliance parties, has sent a sharp announcement to the Swedish government today that they will get hold of this with green aviation fuels. Sweden is also in the field of aviation a leading industrial nation that is involved in developing tomorrow's environmentally friendly aeronautics technology. This means that aviation will be more environmentally friendly, while at the same time it will be able to develop even more new jobs in Sweden. It is possible for more people to travel by air while taking responsibility for the environment. The answer to the environmental and climate challenges of the future can never be that a trade-dependent country like Sweden makes travel difficult and costly. Backing into the future can never be our answer to the challenges of the future. Sweden needs a flight strategy that focuses on how to cope with increased travel that does not cost too much while taking the environmental challenges very seriously. Mr President, I would like to The major airports in Sweden are located in the state-owned company Swedavia. It's a profitable business. Some 40 million passengers pass through the ten airports within Swedavia each year. In order for all of Sweden to operate air traffic, there are a further 34 regional airports distributed throughout the country, from Pajala in the north to Kristianstad in the south. These airports need extensive public support in order to live on, but they are very necessary for the operation of the entire air system in our country. These airports already have a difficult economic situation, with the considerable public support they have. Many people are thinking about their future precisely because the economy is very tight. Now we are also living with the risk that the European Union will stop the possibility for Sweden to support these airports through public funds. Then it will take rapid decisions for airports to survive, and there are different methods and ways to save them. I am not going to go into today's debate exactly what different possibilities are available, but it is quite possible to save airports – if you want to. The current government's aviation policy is under all criticism and is, unfortunately, largely about making aviation more expensive and more difficult. The parliamentary parties that want to retain the current airport infrastructure have the opportunity to vote for reservation 3 in this report. Should it become a parliamentary majority for reservation 3, you would send an announcement to the government that clearly states that you should ensure the current airport infrastructure. The alternative to voting for reservation 3 is to trust that environmentalists and social democrats in government will be able to resolve this issue of, and probably when, it arises. For my part, I am not convinced that this commitment will be in the government, so if you want to ensure regional airports, there is a sharp proposal that I welcome everyone to vote on in today's vote. Mr President, I would like to In line with the anti-aircraft policy of the current government, they have already since the first day they entered Rosenbad wanted to close down Bromma airport. The government parties have repeatedly challenged a parliamentary majority just around Bromma Airport. The airport is needed now and in the future. There are increasing numbers of people travelling, and this means that in future we will need more airport capacity and not less, especially in our capital. We also have a situation where overcapacity is needed at airports in the capital, precisely because people want to travel early in the morning, in the afternoon and in the evening. You want to be able to get to work and meetings in the morning before they start, then you want to be there at the meetings and after today's meetings and work is done you want to be able to go home again. This is what makes us have pektides in the morning, later in the afternoon, and to some extent in the evening. I know from a number of debates in this House that there are left-wing politicians, especially in the Stockholm region, who are having a little difficulty understanding this. But that's how you want to be able to get to work in the morning and home from there in the evening. I challenge those politicians who think it's a good idea to spread flights all day to shut down Stockholm's local traffic in the morning, in the afternoon and in the evening and offer travellers in the middle of the day. Then you will see why people in the rest of the country do not want the kind of policy you are prepared to offer them. In addition, Bromma can act as an emergency reserve. In other words, if Arlanda closes down for a shorter or longer time, you need to have another airport where you can reroute the necessary traffic. Two airports are therefore needed to cope with all these elements. It is against this background that a majority of Parliament wants to send an announcement, once again, to the government to develop the policy of Bromma airport, develop Bromma airport and ensure its survival. I welcome Rikard Larsson's willingness to cooperate; I do so sincerely and sincerely. There are many issues where we can surely find collaborations. The problem, however, is that the Social Democrats have chosen to cooperate in government with the Green Party, which is opposed to aviation in essence and in all its parts. You want to make things more expensive, and you want to make things more difficult. That is why the political proposal to introduce air taxes and close Bromma airport will come. It is difficult to work together on a policy of phasing out and not developing the possibilities of aviation, and that is why this government also has a majority of the parliament against it when it comes to aviation issues. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report, except in those parts where the alliance parties and the Moderates have reserved themselves. For time winning, however, I only ask for the approval of reservation 1 from the Alliance and that announcement about Bromma airport.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-472	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the penultimate part of the speech. I have to admit that for long parts of the speech I sat and thought that it is not easy to try to find a good voice if the opposition is like Edward Riedl. At the end of the day, however, I felt that Edward Riedl was trying to say that he was prepared to listen to other opinions and to what others have to say and to try to move questions forward. I have a few questions for Edward Riedl. It is about the social conditions and the fact that, among other things, the Moderates rejected this initiative in the Nordic Council. I wonder if Edward Riedl has any comment on that. I have full respect for whether Edward Riedl has no comment because he is not on the Nordic Council. But I still wonder for the sake of clarity. A further question concerns one of the elements I raised in my speech, namely the comments on Anders Sundström's investigation. First of all, do the Moderates see anything positive about Anders Sundström's investigation and the overall reasoning for which Anders Sundström is responsible? Secondly, do you have any comments on the Swedish Enterprise's spontaneous comments on the investigation, where you still thought it was a certain relief to see the proposals?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-476	Mr President, I would like to I do not sit on the Nordic Council, but I simply did as I usually do: I asked my fellow party members who sit there what it is all about. The brief answer to that question is that what was raised about aviation safety, if I understood it correctly in Rikard Larsson's first speech, Mr President, is dealt with in a different order from that of the Nordic Council. This is dealt with globally, particularly through ICAO. That's the part. As far as social conditions are concerned, this is a major and most necessary debate, both in the field of aviation and in many other areas, which is challenged by companies that want to place employees as self-employed in tax havens and thus keep wage levels down, which also undermines the tax base in the various countries in the long term. There we probably have the same view in essence. This must be done. I think the question is more about where to deal with this. We are currently preparing a case in which this is being dealt with. There I see, as far as I can judge, that all eight parties in the Swedish Parliament will have the same position on this issue. I find it difficult to understand Rikard Larsson's attempt to create conflict on an issue on which we are in fact very much in agreement. But it may come from a will to find such conflict areas rather than to discuss what we are here to discuss, namely aviation. As far as aviation is concerned, the problem is that Social Democrats, in cooperation with the Green Party, are pursuing an anti-aircraft policy in many respects. That's too bad. I do not believe that the Social Democrats are basically responsible for this policy, but in government you are. That's too bad. I see my time is running out so I will comment on Anders Sundström's investigation in my next answer.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-482	Mr President, I would like to I think that the working conditions of the staff in aviation – especially if this would affect aviation safety, but I am not saying that it does – are very much related to aviation. That is an important issue. Nevertheless, I would like to take the view that we in this House agree that we must carry out intensive work to ensure that this kind of shaky social and regulatory shopping in aviation is stopped. It is an important signal because we can then go together. Now the initiative in the Nordic Council went through anyway, and a call will be sent to the Nordic governments – which I think is good. Does Edward Riedl have anything to say about the Swedish Enterprise's comments on the Arlanda investigation – Anders Sundström's investigation? It is important that we try to find common denominators in aviation policy. I do not really know whether Edward Riedl can specifically point out something that has been done during the current term of office that has worsened the conditions for aviation. He has comments on investigations that are under way. The government thinks it is good to investigate things before they are implemented so that it is possible to see the consequences. The government also believes that it should combine good accessibility across the country and the possibility for people to fly to important destinations with an active environmental policy and a policy to build more housing. It is a pity that the Moderates take such a passive stance and say that the infrastructure for aviation should be as it is today. Is this about all the other infrastructure? Do the Moderates think that the infrastructure should be as it is today?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-486	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by answering the questions put by Mr Larsson. We think that a lot in Anders Sundström's investigation is good when it comes to, for example, developing Arlanda Airport. As far as I can judge, most parties in the Swedish Parliament agree that this work should be done. But this isn't about that. The purpose of the investigation is to close down Bromma airport and build housing. That is what the Social Democrats and the Green Party want to do, not something else. Let us be clear about this. That is why you are repeatedly receiving a majority of the Riksdag against you. It is a strange attitude on the part of Rikard Larsson that he wants to go to the Nordic Council and there send a signal to his own government. They sit a couple of hundred meters from the Parliament House in Rosenbad. Rikard Larsson can almost call out to his colleagues in the government and tell them what he wants the government to do. He does not need to go to the Nordic Council and get them to send letters. We moderate together with the alliance parties and a majority of the Swedish parliament are working on the EU's aviation strategy. It includes social conditions. There we can really solve the challenges in a broad European context. That is what will be required, not to go to the Nordic Council and send letters to your own government. Call over there if you want something done! I do not have much time to deal with those elements, but let us try to find out where possible cooperation on these issues is possible. Then, Mr President, Rikard Larsson and the Social Democrats must return to where they were from the beginning, that is to say, a calmly positive view of aviation. What you are doing, and what was asked, is sending the signal that you want to make things more difficult and more expensive. You want to close down airports and introduce air taxes. The industry is clear: the single most dangerous thing a government can do is to introduce a flight tax. It would be absolutely devastating for aviation opportunities in our country and for the Swedish companies' opportunities to have their head office in Sweden.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-490	Mr President, I would like to Air traffic is increasing sharply at the moment. According to forecasts, it will continue to do so. It is positive that mobility in Sweden and the world is increasing, but at the same time we must also realise that emissions from aviation are escalating climate change in a serious way that risks undermining the conditions for human life in the future. That is why we need a policy that increases mobility but at the same time reduces emissions from the transport sector. For the Green Party, it is of the utmost importance that aviation, like all other modes of transport, should pay its environmental costs and also reduce its environmental impact. Unfortunately, we can see that neither current emissions trading in the EU, technological development nor green approaches are enough to reduce emissions sufficiently. That is why we need to create a level playing field and improve the competitiveness of the environmentally friendly alternatives through the deployment of high-speed high-speed trains, comfortable night trains and smooth train charters in Europe. Many would also prefer to choose trains over flights for their journeys. A common question mark that arises when I meet citizens is why it is more expensive to take the train. It should be cheaper to choose what is good for the environment. Mr President, I would like to In fact, it is quite unreasonable that air transport does not bear its costs, that air transport does not have the tax and VAT of other modes of transport, and that so many airports and routes are subsidised with tax resources. The flight is basically completely tax-free. Domestic flights pay only 6% VAT while international flights are completely VAT-free. Aerial kerosene and aviation gasoline are completely free of charge for their climate impact. In contrast to, for example, car traffic, aviation pays neither CO2 tax nor energy tax. In theory, aviation will pay for its CO2 emissions through the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, but since that scheme is highly dysfunctional, that price is in practice entirely symbolic today. In countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Austria, there has been for several years a flight tax that is partly aimed at reducing climate impact, which would be a possible way for Sweden to reduce its emissions from the transport sector. At the same time as aviation increases, it has gradually become cheaper every year. According to the flight search engine flyresor.se, in 2009 an average of 49 days of work was required for a two-child family to travel to Thailand. In 2014, real wages had increased so much while air fares had fallen that it took only 33 days' work to pay for the same trip. Yet there will be outcry and doomsday prophecies from some parties in the Chamber when the government sets up an investigation to see if there is any way for Sweden to put a fairer price on the climate impact of aviation. The mandate of that study includes, among other things, putting forward proposals on how the tax could be designed to encourage consumers to choose more environmentally friendly alternatives. The study will also look at how the tax can encourage more efficient transport and reduced climate impacts. In addition, the investigation will consider that the design of the tax will interact with the economic, transport and regional policy objectives on, among other things, jobs, accessibility and competitiveness. This is reasonable. Although I think it is important that we put a fair price on the climate impact of aviation, we must at the same time take into account, above all, the regional policy perspective in Sweden. I'd like to have said that anyway. The whole aim is the basic market economy principle that the polluter pays for the climate impact, not others. Sometimes I can be somewhat surprised that parties who often speak out in favour of market economy principles choose to avoid applying those principles as soon as it comes to aviation, for example. Then it is socialism rather than market economy that applies. Mr President, I would like to Some also say that technological developments will solve the problems of aviation's climate impact. Yes, I think we should acknowledge the technological development that is now taking place. We shall encourage it and see how we, as politicians, can promote it as best we can. I would like to hear political proposals from the opposition on how to do this. But from there I hear nothing so far. In this context, we should also remember that the period from the start of such technological development and the start of developing new aircraft with lower climate impact to the last aircraft of a generation being retired is 50 years. So, however much technological development we see now, it will take many decades for the future eco-efficient aircraft to dominate the fleet. That's why we can't just focus on technology development. We must also ensure that the climate impact of the current fleet is reduced. Mr President, I would like to The planning of transport infrastructure shall be based on the need for energy efficient and sustainable transport. A coordinator, Anders Sundström, was appointed to investigate the need for airports and housing in Stockholm and the need for air travel in Sweden. This report has now been presented, and it has shown that our starting point for our basic analysis was correct: Bromma airport is outdated and inhibits growth in Stockholm with up to 38,000 homes. There are real conditions to move traffic from Bromma to Arlanda but also to future high-speed trains. In conclusion, aviation must pay for its emissions, and social planning must be based on energy-efficient and sustainable transport. With those words, I am in favour of reservation 6 and thank you for the floor.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-504	Mr President, I would like to 38 000 homes speak of my colleague Jakop Dalunde from the Green Party. Housing needs to be built in Stockholm; if all parties agree. But Bromma is not a Stockholm issue. Let me be clear about that. Bromma airport is all about Sweden's right to good accessibility to its own capital. That's what it's all about. It is not primarily about Stockholm, it is about the right of the whole of Sweden to its airport and its capital. I have three questions, Mr President, for my colleague from the Green Party. The first is: does the Green Party want to reduce State aid to air traffic and regional airports? The second is: Does the Green Party want to phase out Bromma airport? The third is: Does the Green Party want to introduce a Swedish airline tax?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-510	Mr President, I would like to We can see a certain problem in the use of tax funds to subsidise air transport. This means not only that aviation does not pay for its environmental costs, but also that it has subsidies that other modes of transport do not have in the same way. We do not currently have any strong political proposals at national level to bring about changes in this area. On the other hand, I think that this problem should be taken into account in the formulation of the policy as a whole. With regard to the issue of air tax, it is no secret that the Green Party wants aviation to pay for its climate impact. I think most people really want that, even though one may be a little afraid to take the logical consequence of that conclusion and actually apply it in some way. The Green Party has no ideological lock-up as to exactly how such a price should be set. Flight tax is one way to do it. We have now set up an investigation to see how a fair price could be put on the climate impact of aviation, and I look forward to seeing what the investigator finds out.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-513	Mr President, I would like to The listener probably got about the answers you can expect, that is, the Green Party wants to implement these different parts. That is what it is all about, and that is why it is difficult to find cooperation with the government that is sitting today – there is a desire to make aviation more difficult and expensive. However, with regard to precisely what Mr Dalunde mentioned in his speech, Mr President, it is in fact the case that a great deal of things are being done and have been done to tackle precisely the climate challenges and environmental problems of aviation. There are green approaches and climate-neutral airports. There is work on shorter routes within Europe, where it is possible to reduce flight distances by up to 10%. All of this together means that you get less environmental and climate pressure. There is, as I said, technological development in the field of engines and aircraft. A lot of this is happening in our country, in Sweden, which in the future will be able to create well-paid and much-needed jobs in a whole new sector. Much of the work requested by Mr Dalunde is carried out within the framework of ICAO. It was the alliance government that, during a previous term of office, took the initiative and worked on these issues, and today this has come a relatively long way. It has come a very long way, and it must be better that we meet the climate challenges through agreements with other countries, which mostly affect the environment, and not just by imposing sanctions on aviation in Sweden. It must be better for us to solve these things together. The question I did not hear an answer to was whether the Green Party wants to phase out Bromma airport. Maybe I didn't hear well. If I did, Jakop Dalunde will be happy to repeat the answer.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-518	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by answering briefly the question about Bromma. It cannot be a secret to anyone where the Green Party is on this issue. At the same time, however, we are humbled by the fact that the conditions for doing exactly what one wants to do are not always those that one might want. Then we'll have to be pragmatic about it-- there's nothing strange about it. To answer the other questions, I find it a bit boring when you paint it as if we were against flights per se. I must say that the flight has meant and made possible some of the richest experiences I have had in my life. But that does not mean that we can accept a future in which the climate impact of aviation has no price. It's got to be in the calculation. When I think and plan my life – where to travel if it's vacation, where to live or how to design my society – climate impact must be included in the calculation. Then we have to use market economy principles where we put a price on climate impact and let it become part of the calculation for people, businesses and entire communities. With regard to technological developments, I believe that the best thing for promoting it is precisely a market economy and not wishful thinking. If we put a price on the climate-disrupting emissions from aviation, it will obviously affect the calculation of those companies that are thinking of investing in developing new environmentally friendly technologies, whether they are fuels or the engines themselves. Putting a market price on emissions is the best way to promote technology development in the aviation sector.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-523	Mr President, I would like to In this discussion that we are having today on the subject of aviation, I would like to mention three perspectives that I and the Center Party think are important. The first is Bromma Airport, which, as has already been said, is not a Stockholm issue, but a national question about how we can travel reasonably in this country. Another perspective is the more than 30 regional, smaller airports and how we ensure that they remain. They play a very important role. The third perspective is the question of how we get a more cost-effective and resource-efficient air traffic management in our country. I and the Center Party are very pleased that a majority in the Parliament's Transport Committee today notes that the current government's approach to Bromma airport has not been to protect and develop operations at the airport, but rather that the agenda has been the opposite. I understand that it is embarrassing for Rikard Larsson to take this on board, but that is how it is. Contrary to what has been expressed several times by a majority in Parliament. Therefore, the government is now coming back to an announcement from a majority in parliament calling for the Bromma issue to be dealt with in accordance with what the majority of the people in the country think is right and proper. I might have expected the Minister for Infrastructure to be with me this day. In the absence of the Minister for Infrastructure in this parliamentary debate, we, as a majority, assume that the S-members of the Transport Committee will carry home to Anna Johansson and the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry once again have received an announcement on the issue of Bromma Airport. The second point I wanted to highlight is the importance of the country's smaller and regional airports. They are far more numerous than the ten large, state-owned Swedavia manages, more than 30. They are usually owned, run or managed by municipalities in association and in some case privately owned. There are not as many passengers at these smaller airports, but they exist and operate a very important business if we have the ambition that the whole country should live and develop. The great distances in our country make us completely dependent on a functioning flight from all parts of the country and out into the world. Sometimes we are led by less accurate debaters to believe that aviation and access to airports are only important for transport from Mälardalen and north, but nothing can be more wrong. Take my own home town Kalmarbygden as an example. The Kalmar district is located in the middle of Europe, yes, but you have a land infrastructure that does not even enable daily work in Stockholm without access to daily flights. Regional airports connect Sweden, create jobs, expand labour market regions and increase opportunities for growth throughout the country. The Center Party and the Alliance believe that much more systematic work than is currently being done by the Ministry of Industry and the Government is needed to safeguard regional airports. We assume, for example, that the government will incorporate the problems that the smaller airports currently face in the forthcoming aviation strategy. Amongst other things, it is a question of much clearer than today of marking towards a weak Europe, which threatens some regional airports. Mr President, I would like to On this seemingly self-evident position, to protect the smaller but important airports throughout our country, we did not get the Socialist majority of the committee with us. It is remarkable, but I am absolutely sure that the government parties are willing to explain why Kalmar, Arvidsjaur, Trollhättan, Västerås, Vilhelmina and several localities do not need air seats. This is, of course, the consequence of not supporting the views of the Center Party and the Alliance on this issue. The third and last point I would like to make is air traffic control. Today, more companies than state LFV run air traffic control in our country, and it works very well. The new Air Transport Act came in 2010 and opened the way for others to carry out this activity. This was also the case in a number of places around the country. The Air Transport Agency, LFV, was challenged. It was therefore deeply unfortunate that the Socialist parties, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, the then opposition, chose to abolish this right to airspace in connection with an airport owned or operated by the state or companies in which the state has control. Why were State airports not allowed, as private or regional airports, to tender the air traffic management service? We have all been able to take part in the fact that regional airports that have procured air traffic services while maintaining quality, safety and capacity reduced their air traffic management costs by up to 30%. But we do not give any similar opportunity to Swedavia airports. The Center Party and the Alliance consider that the decision of the opposition at the time to renationalise air traffic services for state airports was very ill thought out and therefore want the market for air traffic services to be reopened. It would be good if this could happen now, especially since state-owned LFV today has ambitions to go out in Europe as a state-owned company and compete for similar services there. This could be viewed as a double standard. Mr President, I would like to With this in mind, I would like to ask for the committee's proposal to be approved, except in those parts which the alliance parties have tabled a reservation, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 1.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-535	Mr President, I would like to It was Anders Åkesson's introduction that caused me to feel compelled to go up in the speaker's chair and clarify what I mean, if there were any ambiguities about it. I am not bothered at all by the announcements that have been made regarding Bromma airport. I do not agree with the substance – I have that right as a Member of Parliament; I may think otherwise – but I am not bothered that they have been done, nor do I think that the government has handled them without respect. There are two announcements. One is about the negotiator. In other words, we should not negotiate with Stockholm Municipality or other stakeholders about closing Bromma. The second is the development of Bromma Airport. After these two announcements, the government changed the mission to the state coordinator and removed what did not concern increased air capacity and housing construction in the Stockholm region, i.e. that the mission to negotiate the future of Bromma airport did not remain with the investigator. The government did not say anything about the investigation including a description of the possibilities of closing Bromma. What has come from Anders Sundström's investigation is a suggestion that one should expand Arlanda, but he also points out that, in order to increase housing construction in Stockholm, one could transfer the flight capacity available at Bromma. Does Anders Åkesson not think it is reasonable that this report is now publicly discussed and handled by the Government Office? I have full respect for our differences of opinion, but I also think that we should get some respect back for taking the issues seriously.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-541	Mr President, I would like to After all, respect for the word is a matter of respect. In fact, it is a matter of showing respect for what the majority express in the form of an announcement. The first announcement was met to some extent with respect in that parts of the government had to see themselves run over by other parts of the government when they stopped Sundström's progress somewhat. But, Mr President, what prevents the Social Democrats, which is the vast majority of the government base, from joining the ambition of developing Bromma airport expressed by the alliance parties in their report? I would call that respect, Mr President. If we share our view that Bromma airport is needed to keep air traffic going in several places throughout our country, to offer alternative routes and to gain efficiency and price pressure to promote transport, then as a social democrat and member of the parliamentary Committee on Transport could have joined the reasoning of the alliance parties. Mr President, I would like to It is also about the signals you send by adding, adjusting and re-establishing investigations. This gives the business community and people in common who travel a lot the impression that today we have a government that has tried and tried in various ways to slow down the development of domestic aviation by repeatedly causing problems and burdens or questioning the existence of Bromma airport. Domestic air tax has been discussed in the past. Rikard Larsson has not mentioned this, but it is another such signal that is perceived very negatively.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-545	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that we should have a order where it is the Swedish parliament that dictates what the Social Democratic Party should have for its opinion on various issues. When Anders Åkesson says that as a Social Democratic member of the Transport Committee, I would change my mind on one issue because another majority in the Swedish Parliament has said something, I have to turn a little against that reasoning. In the same way, I assume that Anders Åkesson and the Center Party also retain their views in cases where this House votes in another direction. I think it is important that we keep it separate and that it is clear that we as parties can have what opinions we want. What is important is that when this House makes announcements, the government listens to them and makes corrections. That is exactly what I described the government doing after the announcements made. Therefore, the Bromma part was also removed from the mission. That is exactly what I was talking about in my introduction as well. With regard to the Bromma issue, I think it is unfortunate that there has been too much discussion of the forms and what the government has done and what it has not done, and too little discussion of the substance. I look forward to a debate on the subject – how air traffic is to be organised and organised in the Stockholm region in order for it to be as good as possible for the whole country. I think that such a debate can be conducted in the light of the evidence produced by Anders Sundström. There's a lot of good stuff in that base. We may not all share our opinion, but let us discuss the different parts and see where we actually have the same views. Finally, I wonder if Anders Åkesson can comment on the fact that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise welcomed the proposal.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-550	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions I forgot to say, Rikard Larsson. It is always developing to reason. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The overall picture of the government we have at the moment is that a signal has been sent very clearly that Bromma airport has no future. The road has certainly improved – that is my view – but not fully. The introduction of a national aviation tax is being fully investigated. The idea of being able to support regional airports – with all its implications – is being messed up and weak with the EU. I am absolutely sure that Rikard Larsson shares my view of the concerns it can entail in 34 places around the country. The overall picture, Mr President, is that today we have a government that does not take aviation seriously as they should. Specifically here and now we are discussing Bromma. It is an expression of this. I am afraid that the overall picture has sent a signal that has led companies and individuals in different situations to conclude: Should I live and develop something in this country, I will avoid places that risk getting rid of their air traffic to Bromma or that the daily flight of my acquisition will be greatly increased. It is a political signal that worries me enormously, because I and the Center Party have the ambition that the whole country should be able to live and develop. I assume, Mr President, that the Social Democratic Party, like other parties, will take independent decisions at congresses and so on, to which the Green Party will clearly devote time in a moment. But the government policy that the Social Democrats are entrusted with must be supported in the Swedish parliament. An announcement is then quite clear, and if you get two on the same issue, you have to take it seriously.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-555	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation, reservation 2. Air transport is the most important means of transport per trip. A round trip to Thailand can emit 2.5 tonnes of carbon dioxide, while a sustainable annual consumption of carbon dioxide is 1 tonne of carbon dioxide. These are very high emissions per trip. While we are flying more and more, we are seeing increasingly harsh weather conditions around the world. In the United States, the worst fires rage for a very long time, and the forecast is that they will last until November. Fire smoke covers an area as large as Sweden. Thousands of firefighters are fighting the fire cores. International aid is now being called there. 200 homes, homes, burned down. This is just one example of what is going on around the world. Climate change is affecting the water cycle, causing droughts, fires and floods. We will see worse and worse such events if we do not reset in time. It is also only early signs of a climateslide, a climateslide from which we cannot turn. We can stop this now, but not then. It is therefore important that Sweden has a national aviation strategy based on climate targets. And it is positive that it is now being worked on getting a higher use of biofuels going. The problem is that the large quantities required are not available. Biofuel is simply not enough for aviation as it is today. It is therefore totally unreasonable that a biofuel strategy could replace air tax. Good aviation connections and a well-functioning aviation industry in Sweden, in addition to the ability to travel and move, have some significance for jobs and growth in the country. I agree, but it is important to gradually reduce flights and to transfer as many journeys as possible to other modes of transport. We cannot allow aviation to be the backbone of the Swedish economy when each trip has such a high climate impact, but we have to switch to other modes of transport as best we can. We are now putting down the night trains, one by one, both in Europe and here in Sweden. Not taxing flights even equivalent to car traffic, when aviation emits the most, is nothing more than completely unreasonable, and this is in keeping with the majority of Sweden's population. Flying today is unreasonably cheap. We must make a political contribution to sustainable living. We must make a political contribution to ensuring that sustainable travel is the cheapest. As far as Bromma airport is concerned, the climate targets also require us to steer our travel towards more sustainable alternatives. We believe that the government coordinator's investigation into Bromma airport, More flights and housing, which was presented in April, is based on an excessive proportion of air travel. There is a doubling of air traffic. Traffic analysis has also indicated that this does not match the climate policy objectives. We in the Left Party therefore believe that we should redirect air traffic from there to other airports and to trains and shipping, if possible. As has been said before, the housing shortage is one of the biggest threats in Stockholm to an increased, robust economy. Many companies have recruitment problems due to the housing shortage. Land that can be built is scarce in the Stockholm area, and there are major problems with the traffic situation. In order for Stockholm to continue to grow, the city needs land for new residential areas and a functioning infrastructure. Stockholm will not grow at the expense of other parts of the country, but the conditions in Stockholm today are tough. Therefore, the Left Party considers that Bromma airport should be phased out in favour of a solution that guarantees land for residential construction, sustainable transport solutions and sufficient flight capacity in the region. The right mode of transport should be planned for the right kind of journey. It is problematic that the plans put forward point to a sharp increase in air travel. It is important that we take climate targets seriously and listen to the agreements that have taken place globally, such as the global climate agreement from Paris, which says that we should avoid a 1.5-degree rise in temperature. I think everyone here wants to hand over a planet to their children who can live on, just like we've lived on it. However, according to some researchers, today's 25-year-olds will not have a full working life before there is such a climate chaos that it will be difficult to carry out activities in our society at all. So urgent is the situation. So we have to steer the boat. At the same time, very positive things are happening around the world. We have a climate agreement that has brought together all the countries. It should be tightened, and everyone works for it. China and the United States have been reducing their emissions so much that global emissions have been falling for years. So there is hope. However, it is important that we plan transport in a more climate-friendly way. The Left Party is in favour of the labour market component of the report. It is a good thing that the government in the EU's work in 2015 gave priority to influencing the European Commission's aviation package in terms of working conditions. These issues were also included in the Commission Communication on a European Aviation Strategy presented at the end of 2015. The Left Party welcomes the clear view that social conditions in aviation should be taken seriously. In the labour market today, there are far more severe deteriorations in conditions than we have previously had in Sweden. We need to steer this up. Adaptation to the EU acquis has led to this. It has become like this since we joined the European Union; everyone should be aware of that. It is positive that all parties in committee are saying that we should work with the labour market in aviation so that we can see better working conditions and not see social dumping in this area as we see in all areas of the Committee on Transport. Now we want to see strong action taken to really tackle this and that it lies on the European Union because forces in the European Union are working the other way, as we see the result. Traffic analysis has pointed out that the emergence of all kinds of forms of employment and different ways of organising activities means that labour law is easily eliminated. Traffic analysis also points out that this is an area that deserves more attention in transport policy. We therefore hope that this report will lead to a workshop in this area. I agree with both of our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only support reservation 2.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-579	Madam President, I would like One of the Christian Democrats' main principles is the principle of stewardship. It represents a responsibility for the people and the environment, but also a responsibility to develop and manage the assets we have. For a sparsely populated country like Sweden with large natural resources and a developed trade, efficient communications are of the utmost importance. A well-functioning system of roads, railways, air links and shipping is a prerequisite for regional development and growth and for the whole country to live. Madam President, I would like Regional airports play a major role in the Swedish transport system. A well-coordinated regional airport system is essential for both growth and development in the country. Regional airports in Sweden are of great importance for communication with Stockholm and other destinations around Sweden and the world to work. They enable residents to live and work in different parts of our elongated country. People living in sparsely populated areas have the opportunity to work in other parts of the country, and local companies can continue to expand and retain skills. They also play an important role in tourism in our country. Through Swedavia, the Swedish State has retained and registered the ten major airports. They are of national interest, and there are a large number of travelers and good profitability. The smaller non-governmental airports are mainly owned by municipalities supported by county councils and regions. Partially with the help of state-run grants, they can continue their activities. These airports are extremely important for municipalities and regions but are not in a position to have the same number of passengers and therefore find it more difficult to make a profit. In order to create long-term sustainable solutions, we Christian Democrats want the financing of non-governmental airports to be reviewed. Madam President, I would like Bromma airport be or not be discussed for a long time. Stockholm is an economic hub in Sweden that needs fast transport. Lack of communications affects jobs and growth throughout Sweden. This would lead to the disappearance of jobs and the loss of Stockholm's competitiveness internationally. The Christian Democrats want to see a broad investment in infrastructure where aviation is part of it and Bromma airport is developing. Stockholm and Sweden need more growth-generating measures and more investment in infrastructure expansion in order to strengthen their competitiveness. Bromma airport is like a hub for domestic flights, which relieves Arlanda, which can function as Sweden's foreign airport to a greater extent. It is therefore important to continue the development of Bromma airport. It is of national interest and important for both the Stockholm region and the whole country. On 18 December 2014, the Government appointed a special coordinator to investigate the future of Bromma Airport and explore the possibility of building housing at Bromma Airport. This took place on the same day that the Riksdag decided on an announcement to the Government that no negotiating person should be appointed for the decommissioning of Bromma airport. In March 2015, the Riksdag again addressed an announcement to the Government about Bromma Airport, meaning that the Government should clearly take a stand and act to ensure that Bromma Airport is not closed down. In view of the fact that a majority in the Riksdag has on two occasions taken a clear stand for the continuation of air operations at Bromma Airport, the Government changed its mind at a meeting on 18 December 2015 and decided to amend the previous decision on the assignment to the State Coordinator of Bromma Airport. The decision shortened the investigation period until 31 March 2016, and limited the assignment to examining the conditions for developing flight capacity and housing facilities in Stockholm, while the other parts of the assignment ceased. The State Coordinator presented the report, which was published on 11 April 2016. In the report, the coordinator states that it is important to develop the capacity and efficiency of Arlanda and that expansion of Arlanda Airport is necessary in order to strengthen the airport's competitiveness and role as an internationally important transport hub. Furthermore, the coordinator's view is that Bromma airport has no future after 2038, when Arlanda passes the Stockholm region's entire need for travel. Madam President, I would like We from the Alliance are not satisfied with this report, which partially announces the closure of Bromma airport after the year 2038. We would therefore like to point out that Bromma airport, with its main function as a hub for domestic flights, can relieve Arlanda, which can thus function more as Sweden's foreign airport, and we stress the importance of continuing to develop Bromma airport. The government's focus on Bromma airport has not been to protect and develop operations at the airport, but instead the agenda has been the opposite, contrary to the opinion of the majority in parliament. That is why we are once again announcing to the government that it should work towards the further development of Bromma airport. Madam President, I would like Several cases have been revealed where employees on the flight have been found to be under the influence of alcohol in the ministry. This is something that can pose a major risk to passenger safety and increase the risk of aircraft accidents. In order to ensure the safety and safety of passengers, we Christian Democrats are calling for the introduction of an alcohol test for pilots and crew members when boarding and disembarking on aircraft. Every year at Swedish airports there are more than 350 000 take-offs and as many landings. The government believes that introducing mandatory alcohol testing on pilots would mean more than one million tests annually to check each pilot before each take-off and after each landing and says that this is resource-intensive. The Police Authority is currently conducting alcohol breath tests on pilots when there are notifications or tips and carrying out random checks. According to the information provided by the border police, some 1 150 random checks are carried out. That is not enough, in my opinion. We've introduced alcoboms in some ports. It has proved effective and counteracts the alcohol-affected drivers who drive out of our ferries. A mechanical test of alcohol does not need to be carried out by the police. It will register and deter people from drinking alcohol. The Christian Democrats find it very worrying that it has been discovered on several occasions that pilots and flight crews have been intoxicated in the service when they are in charge of passenger flights. Many passengers' lives are put at risk by this, as the risk of aircraft accidents increases. In order to ensure passenger safety and prevent aircraft tragedy, the Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should introduce zero tolerance with regard to alcohol in connection with flight and introduce mandatory alcohol testing for both pilots and crew members at both embarkation and disembarkation, as the random checks carried out by the police are not sufficient. Madam President, I would like Drones are today popular, and their use is increasing. Drones do great community benefit and will within a few years become common in the areas of civil protection, transport, reconnaissance and more. There have been some incidents due to misuse and negligence within the control zone for aircraft, since drones have been flown within the control zone. Airports have been shut down several times because drones have been flown within the control zone and put the aircraft and passengers at risk. Over the past year, approximately 15 serious drone incidents have been reported in protected airspace in Sweden, and unfortunately the trend shows more drone incidents compared to previous years. What is worrying is that a collision between a drone and an aircraft would most likely have disastrous consequences where many people's lives are put at risk. Unfortunately, the incidents reported have also caused costly expenditure when airports have been forced to close and flights have been cancelled. In order to prevent potential road safety risks in the airspace, we Christian Democrats believe that the Transport Agency should be mandated to review and propose stricter rules on the use of drones to ensure aviation safety. This is needed to ensure that society is not at risk of losing out on the positive aspects of technology, while also taking into account other important aspects of security, for example. Madam President, I would like I will stay there and ask for the approval of reservations 1, 4, 11 and 13 as well as the proposal by the majority of the committee to announce to the government about Bromma airport.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-606	Madam President, I would like It can sometimes mean a certain benefit to be at the end of a long list of speakers. You have time to hear some essential elements – and some less important elements too, for that matter. Madam President, let me first of all support the committee's proposal. That includes the announcement about Bromma airport. If it's the third or fourth of the order, I've lost count of one. But obviously another one is needed. It's been raining about flight strategies lately. The EU is now going to negotiate globally. Among the important points I consider important are fair competition rules. It's a real soup, if you look at what it looks like. But it is not least a single European sky for the efficiency and use of airspace. We hope that the European Union will be able to cope with the enormous task it intends to undertake and that we will have a better outcome than with certain other technical products that have been manufactured over the last ten years, such as Ertms and Galileo, to name a few. The one who lives will see. The next flight strategy is one that the government has announced. It will be exciting to see what you find in it. We in the Swedish Democrats have not only been watching, but we have been working for a long time to get a flight strategy for Sweden. I am thinking of a strategy for domestic aviation. As I can see, most of the parties, except the directly hostile ones, are striving for a better relationship than we have today. For example, in today's report there are a number of motions in which the sportsmen care about their local airports and worry about them – and they have reason to do so. But the joy of those motions and the debate that I have heard so far is that I find that the problems are not going to lie in the Swedish Parliament – because in general, I think the supporting parties are quite agreed to get a better state of affairs – without the villain in the drama called the EU. I listened with pleasure to what Rikard Larsson said, not about Bromma, because there he should worry a lot, but about his concern for the regional airports, which I know and understand. However, I do not understand his view that we should have a debate later. It will probably be both sooner and later, and we will be happy to take the initiative today. Edward Riedl correctly expresses the announcement of Bromma, which means that it is absolutely necessary – unfortunately. He also says that rapid decisions are needed with regard to regional airports. I would also like to say that there is a need for a sharp proposal. We are talking from some quarters about Arlanda's expansion – if we are now going to dwell on the superfluous investigation that was done. Some came out that may be interesting to be clear about. The investigation talks about expanding Arlanda. But not least because of current environmental conditions, this becomes quite difficult. The three routes currently in use must not be used in full. What would you do with a fourth? Would it have the maximum use given that the environmental debate is not finished yet? These are things that should be considered before anything is done. I would like to return to what we ourselves have come up with in the winter with regard to regional airports. Among the problems we have experienced, particularly in the field of aviation, is the air tax number one. This would clearly hit our smaller airports hardest, where air routes are already struggling for survival. It is also a terrible regional policy. I really stand by that. In addition, the next item is the EU state aid rules. If you tighten it a little bit, they actually pose a threat to the municipal self-determination. Today, a municipality must not, on its own initiative, support an activity that is urgently felt within its own municipality. We think that this is completely unreasonable. We have therefore contacted our Members of the European Parliament, and we share the same view. Among other things, our representative Lundgren went to Finland and contacted those responsible for Finnish airports. The situation was similar in Norway and Finland. I mention Finland because, like Sweden, it is an EU country. It has ensured that surpluses from major Helsinki airports cover the cost of other airports. It is only in Sweden that we have a completely different division. We're pretty lonely about it. Now the EU has set itself aside and simply wants to ban public support. I believe that if we can get Europe to reconsider, we could also find a much better system, one that is tasty for taxpayers. Swedavia had a turnover of around 5 billion in 2015. They had a profit of 1.4 billion and a profit requirement of 7%. The profit margin in 2015 was approximately 14.5 per cent. You take in about 1.4 billion. If we were playing with the idea that one third of these funds were used for our other needy airports, we would have covered their costs, and Arlanda, or Swedavia, would still have had 1 billion in surplus. I think we should work on this. It is a concrete proposal that we are putting forward to imitate the model of Finland, if the EU has not introduced a special law that applies to Sweden. And I don't know why they would. But it is clearly not valid in Finland. I believe that organisational changes may be necessary. But then I think we should try to do them and preferably with as broad a support as possible in this House. I could end there, because we will come back to aviation issues for the future. Finally, however, I would like to say that the important airports that we want to maintain in our elongated country are directly at risk. If, one by one, they begin to disappear, it is probably just the anti-aircraft politicians who will be happy. I'm not going to help please them. We need the flight. I have always been familiar with those in the Committee on Transport and Tourism who say that we need all modes of transport until something much better emerges. Once again, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-624	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I broadly share the description of the problems that Tony Wiklander is painting with regard to regional airports. It is about the EU's state aid rules and the possibility of financing airports as we do today. Madam President, I would like Tony Wiklander calls for a sharp proposal to save regional airports and their survival. I would like to draw the attention of Tony Wiklander to the fact that there is such a sharp proposal in the report we are dealing with, and it is in reservation 3. It is a question of entrusting the government with the task of ensuring the survival of regional airports. The alternative to that reservation is to rely on environmental parties and social democrats in government to solve a problem that is likely to arise soon. For my part, I do not trust that they will sort things out. When it comes to how to solve this, Tony Wiklander tells us where the Swedish Democrats want to take the money to guarantee the airports. The money will be taken from Swedavia's profits, and the funding will be guaranteed. Madam President, I would like Then I would like to say to Tony Wiklander that the problem will be that the European Union will stop the transfer of money in the way that has happened today. That is why a fairly transparent mandate must be given to the government to resolve what we say it should resolve. Other ways must be found to finance this. There are a variety of techniques to succeed in this. But basically there must be an announcement from the Swedish parliament, so that the government knows what it has to do. The alternative, as I said, is to trust environmental parties and social democrats in government positions. For my part, I don't.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-628	Madam President, I would like Then we have something in common here, Edward Riedl. We don't trust them either. We have seen too much of this. We have also seen that the composition of the government means that it is a real brake block for the development and future of aviation. Soon proposals will come from the government. I've been waiting for it to come around this time, but it seems to be a while. When proposals come, there will be new aviation debates again. If Edward Riedl and the rest of us can find a reasonable way to make a sharp announcement, we will of course participate in it. I hope that the Alliance is also united in that situation. What I say about Swedavia and their profits, dividends and even their speculations in hotel building and other things is not made up. It's an existing relationship. It is an unequal phenomenon throughout aviation. This is done at the expense of small airports. It will eventually also put Swedavia at a disadvantage. If the small airports stop, they simply do not get any approaches from there. They also do not get useful things like charter flights abroad from the small airports, which is an excellent thing. Finally, if Finland can, then we should be able to. Otherwise, we will be familiar with how Finns work to convince the EU of excellence. It can't be just an organisational issue.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-633	Madam President, I would like I will start by saying something about Finland. As far as I can remember, Finland has all the airports in the state-owned company. It is a technique that can be used to resolve the issue, but it is not the only one. Let me be clear and say that there is no desire from regional airports to re-enter Swedavia. I therefore believe that this should be taken very seriously – there is no wish in the country to end up under the state again. What you want help with is funding, and that is why the proposal on the table looks the way it does. When it comes to Swedavia's profits, you can reason back and forth about where you take money to do this. Do you take it out of Swedavia or the Treasury? Well, it'll be the same thing in the end. What is expected, however, is an EU decision, and most of it indicates that, unfortunately, a great deal of airports will not be able to receive public support in the way they have received in the past. Then the question comes up. As I said, Madam President, there are various techniques to solve this. You can take care of fire protection at airports, or whatever it would be, and in this way you can support this through the back door. It is true that money must be contributed, but there is a sharp proposal that gives the government the advice it needs to deal with different outcomes in the EU. Irrespective of what the EU decides, there will still be a lot of problems linked to this. So there is a sharp proposal, Madam President, to give the government the task of actually solving the problem. If you do not vote for reservation 3, the alternative is to trust that environmentalists and social democrats in the government will solve this when the problem arises. The problem has arisen, and we on our part do not trust that they will solve it.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-638	Madam President, I would like We can dwell for a long time on who has faith in who here. I have no confidence that this government can do this, quite simply. So come back with a proposal that speaks a little concretely about how to proceed! I also know that it ends up in the same cash register, that Swedavia has to pay returns to the state and so on, but there is huge money and rolls there. You would not have to go in with tax increases or anything else to manage our airports. We think that this would have been a practical way to arrange this, and if Finland can do so, then we can. Should we then be very precise about the smaller airports, the question is which is most important – the form of organisation or that they have their economy secured. I think I'd have chosen it later if I'd been the airport manager there. I do not think we are going any further at the moment, but I am very interested in the near future because of all the strategies that are now coming to us. We are prepared to discuss in every new situation – in a constructive way.
i-8GM8EBSDPLgeio8jaNf2xo	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by asking for the approval of Amendment No 12 on drones. Drones are a new phenomenon that occupies our skies and creates both the conditions for technology development and security problems that must be taken care of. Safety is A and O when it comes to aviation. Maintaining and maintaining safety is crucial for the development of the entire industry. It's necessary for you to feel safe when you get on a plane and go where you're going. There are a lot of challenges to deal with. It has been explained in the past during the debate the risks that this entails – and in part also the opportunities. It is also on Parliament's table today that we have to take a position on and about this very issue. What happens then? Well, the government decides to get in the back seat and let the authorities drive the car. The Swedish Transport Agency is looking at the adjustments that can be made to the existing regulatory framework. However, this does not apply to any necessary legislative changes, technology promotion measures or anything else that is not within the ownership of the Swedish Transport Agency. There is thus no call from the government to take a holistic approach to this in order to make Sweden a forward-looking nation in terms of the problems and opportunities of drones. You choose to lay low. Today the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats will therefore get in the back seat and let the authorities drive Sweden on the drone issue. In the Alliance, we have said that we must take care of this and do something good about it. We must promote the opportunities that exist and deal with the problems that arise. What absolutely amazes me most is the Swedish Democrats. At one point they sit on the Transport Committee and say under a subsidiarity test that this is something we should keep in Sweden; it should be a matter for national legislation and something that the Transport Committee and the Government should address. The EU should not take care of the drone issue. At the second moment – now that there is such a proposal on Parliament's table – they choose to fit, do nothing and sit in the back seat in which they may be squeezed with the government parties and the Left Party. Madam President, I would like There are opportunities for us to create a country where the drones have an important but safe place and where the technology gets its space but safety is never compromised with. Sweden can become a pioneer nation within the framework of the EU's common regulatory framework. We can also ensure that we shoulder our responsibilities, which we bear until we have common rules at European level to avoid possible accidents. However, the government parties, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats choose not to do so. I am sorry about this. As I have said, I would like to endorse Amendment No 12, which is the only proposal at Parliament's table today that takes proper responsibility in this matter.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-648	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate the report by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on hunting and game conservation. On Sunday, I arrived on a flight from Palestine and Jerusalem, where I had seen the deplorables of any kind – people are locked up and they are locked up behind high walls. I came driving from Skellefteå airport, and in Varvarträsk I saw seven moose in a newly green meadow. It's a great country we live in. We have every opportunity to move freely, and so does our game. This week SLU and Trafikverket have presented a study in which they say that 30 billion SEK is needed over the next ten years to an investment in safe game transitions. It is about bringing down the increased number of road accidents caused by wild game. Ensuring that the game can also move is also part of the game conservation issue, just as we should be able to use our roads in a safe way. Madam President, I would like From being virtually extinct, our cloven-hoofed species and predators have grown into sustainable populations throughout our country. In some places they are local at far too high levels. This indicates that the Swedish model for hunting and game conservation has worked very well. Many countries are envious of the Swedish model, where, while we can have functioning agriculture and forestry, we can have a top-class game management that allows us to reap growth through hunting. The hunt is usually performed by non-profit forces. In other parts of the world, hunting is usually sold to the highest bidder, which means that it is an upper class gate. In Sweden, we have seen for a long time that game conservation is necessary but also provides a taxable resource that benefits all of us. In no other country do citizens with hunters' rights have the opportunity to participate in hunting and game conservation. No other country has the popular commitment to hunting and wildlife conservation. There are Members of Parliament who are involved in hunting and game conservation issues. Undoubtedly, these are issues that concern us. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report, except in paragraph 4, for which there is a reservation which I reject. Paragraph 4 is based on populism from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. The report deals with 29 motions and 42 motions, 29 of which have been dealt with in a simplified way because the same motions have been raised in the past. One could call on Members to look at how their motions have been treated so that they can renew themselves a little more next time. When we discussed the hunting and game conservation report last year, we were fairly in agreement. There was an announcement from the House that the government had to take hold of the work to investigate the Sami right to hunt, the so-called double hunting right in the reindeer grazing area in Jämtland, Västerbotten and Norrbotten. During the year there has been a judgment, the Girjas judgment, which will undoubtedly play a role. There are also studies that indicate that the county administrative boards work differently on this issue, and this must also be addressed. This also applies to hunting for public waters in Sweden's economic zone, management of seals, hunting for red deer and regulatory changes in wild areas. Madam President, I would like There is a clear difference. The government has worked, and is still working, intensively on these issues. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has already been commissioned in its regulatory letter to carry out analyses and introduce regulations on crown management areas. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report on the assignment has recently been referred. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to include the management of pet animals when it comes to the issue of long-term stable financing of the elk administration. Here we believe that there is reason to take into account all the cloven-hoofed game. The government is also working on a proposal to overcome the appeal circus that has occurred in connection with appeals against decisions on the pursuit of our large predators. A proposal to create order is referred. The proposal provides for the creation of a principal court. The government has also made a proposal that has been referred to access the high hunting pressure in the mountains. A proposal for a change to the reindeer nutrition regulation has been drawn up for consultation. The government will soon come back with a decision on this. With regard to the issue of a new hunting and game management authority, it has been made clear that the issue is not simple. Do we want to build in further decision-making? Or should we build on regionalisation and allow wildlife management areas around the country, which are best placed to know the needs, to work on the issue? What task will the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have? Undoubtedly, all issues relating to hunting and game conservation fall within the scope of the EU Species and Habitats Directive. It would be very strange if the Environmental Protection Agency did not have that task. No other authority or reasonable person would think it was a reasonable solution. A reasonable solution is, of course, to steer up what does not work and give the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency a clearer mission. Perhaps a game conservation unit should be set up at the existing conservation agency. Perhaps you should also strengthen links with the regional county boards to improve what does not work. We can clearly see that the support and decisions of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding county boards must work better. Here the government is doing a very good job to overcome the hafts of the bourgeoisie. Another current issue is Anders Ygeman's work on the EU weapons directive. It is clear that the Minister for the Interior is working on the Swedish model to create order and order in this matter as well. In Sweden, the order has been built on that we who are allowed to have weapons should have the hunter'sxamen, should be members of a sports shooting club and should have weapons cabinets. Like no other country in the European Union, we have created a working order. I think that the government is doing a good job of highlighting precisely the role of the Swedish model in the EU. In fact, not all countries have the same order, and it is important to include it in this debate. Often it is a matter of something else. Madam President, I would like Neither hunters, conservation interests, wolves, moose, ripples, seals, nor skimmers benefit from new conflicts. I very much hope that we can find ways to avoid creating new conflicts and populism in the area of hunting and game management. I look forward to constructive interventions from the speaker's seat.
i-8bm3BtQnNFtUkKMjP1kxSD	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 19 on hunting and game conservation. The report contains some 40 requests from the general period of exercise. Several of these issues have been dealt with by the committee in the past and have therefore been dealt with in a simplified way because nothing new has happened in this area. However, there is one exception, and it is the question of the J Act investigation that I would like to re-emphasise in this House. The hunting investigation was set up by the alliance government in 2012 and should have had its final report by the end of 2015. Unfortunately, the Rural Minster chose to close this solid investigation less than a year before it would have been completed, and this is problematic from a number of perspectives. The investigation had entered its final phase, and there was a great expectation that there would be a major political take-up of the overall hunting policy. The argument used in this House a year ago by the government parties was that the issue of a new hunting and game conservation agency was under preparation and that an announcement from the Riksdag would be completely unnecessary. At least now the government was given an announcement to set up a new authority because the majority of the parliament thought that the matter was important and did not trust the government's competence in the matter. Madam President, I would like Now we are standing here again, and a majority in the committee does not believe that the government has done what Parliament told it to do, namely to investigate a new agency for hunting and game. The committee therefore has another announcement to the government about the same thing. Now, however, we are clear that time has come to set the mission. This means that the government must urgently investigate the issue and return by 2016. The reason we want to repeat this issue is not so strange. The Swedish hunt is based on a long tradition and means a lot to both people and nature. Hunting is and will remain an important tool for managing our wildlife and an instrument for surveying which and how many animals exist in nature. Modern hunting legislation is needed with clear systematics and modern rules for long-term sustainability. Sweden needs to be better at implementing and applying EU law commitments in the same way that we need to be better at exercising the government's responsibility for our wildlife. We in the A alliance saw this and therefore set up the J Act investigation. We wanted to investigate the issue thoroughly in order to be able to create long-term and sustainable legislation with broad political roots. I meet hunters as well as scorers, landowners and forest owners who are currently expressing frustration at the lack of clear political leadership in hunting and game conservation issues. The current Minister for Rural Development has promised that the two interim reports submitted by the investigator will become a reality. It is gratifying for both the hunt and the scorers.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-676	Unfortunately, the proposals once again shine with their absence. Meanwhile, wild boars spread uncontrollably across the country, causing greater and greater damage to both rural and urban areas. Madam President, I would like Since the Social Democratic Government took office, uncertainty for the Swedish hunter and the Swedish hunting tradition has increased. If it is due to the government's inability to come up with joint proposals or if the issues are simply not properly investigated, we can only speculate about. What we know is that there is a dual message coming from the Government Office on the issue of wolf hunting and on which the Swedish position is actually in relation to the arms directive. What will happen next is extremely unclear, and in the long run it is a major threat to the Swedish game administration. One of the reasons given by the Minister for Rural Development to close the Hunting Act investigation is that it cost too much money. It is therefore a little strange that on his own initiative he is setting up another investigation into the general mission of the Hunters' Association today. It's hard to believe that this investigation would be completely free. The general mission of the Hunters' Union today works well as it is, and there is no reason to change that. Therefore, on behalf of the Moderates, I support reservation 4. Otherwise, we support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-681	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Coenraads for her speech. I thought I'd have to reward Åsa Coenraads with a little change of line. It might be appropriate. I'm worried that these issues are being sullied with populism. Throughout the bourgeois reign we had these questions. They were basically the same questions. And the bourgeois Moderate Minister of Finance was laughing at himself when one thought of having money for a new authority. They managed to break the whole arrangement for how the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would work. It's no wonder it's getting worse. But this can be improved. I think we can improve it together. Wildlife injuries occur locally. If we are to improve this, we need to strengthen regional administration and give county boards and game management delegations the strength to make decisions. It is locally that predators cause confusion in some places. It is local as we have large grazing damage on our pine plants. It is locally that wild boars trample on farmers' crops. With regard to the EU arms directive, I can say that Åsa Coenraads knows very well what constitution we have in this country. We have an EU board that is unique in Europe. The majority of the EU Board decides on Sweden's negotiating position. That since individual bourgeois members are out spreading inappropriate and unhealthy propaganda, such as that we should not follow what the Moderates themselves have been with and determined, is ridiculous.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-685	Madam President, I would like I thank Isak for the reward of talking more about these important issues. I would like to dwell a little on the concept of populism. It is an interesting concept that is used rather carelessly. One could also say that it is populism to close a long investigation that is in its final phase. It happened when it was eight months before the investigation was due to deliver its final report. Two interim reports had already been submitted, which have been debated in this House a little earlier in the years and on which we have a rather broad political consensus. Is it populism to close an investigation that's almost finished? Is it populism to say that everything that existed before was bad just because someone else was in charge? We set up the Hunting Act investigation to investigate this properly. This government is good at preparing things in the Government Office. It was something that we too were doing through this investigation. The idea was that this would land in something after it was finished. Now the Social Democrats are choosing to close the investigation before they have even reached the preparatory stage. Have not these years played a role? Hasn't the tax money we've paid for the investigation mattered? What's coming? When's the bill on boars coming? When will the bill on what the new hunting agency should look like? Isak From talks about game management and that the game management delegations should have increased local decision-making. But if it is as Isak From said in his speech, that they want to put this on the Environmental Protection Agency, will it be better for the local anchoring?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-689	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the Hunting Act investigation, I understand that it was not the opinion of the Moderates and Åsa Coenraad that the Swedish Democrats should help to bring down our first budget. However, with that happening, we lost a lot of money at the Government Office, and we had to prioritise on that basis. I regret that we had to close a number of investigations. I made it clear that I think it is necessary to strengthen regional administration. It is necessary that the Wildlife Management Delegations and County Administrative Boards receive the support of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to which they are entitled and that the administration is designed according to the local conditions. Åsa Coenraads and the Moderates have a reservation with the Swedish Democrats about the general mission. Åsa Coenraads also took up the general assignment and wanted it to be completely unchanged. For my part, I think it is good that the government has listened to the Hunters' Association. The Hunters' Association wants to develop the general mission and get a long-term perspective in funding. You want to change your name and look at what kind of tasks the general mission, or whatever it is to be called, should contain. Is it not reasonable, then, for the government to listen to this, start a dialogue and look at how we want it to be in the future? Here is Åsa Coenraads and says that we should have what it has always been, end of story – although those who hold the general assignment think that this is something we should review.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-692	Madam President, I would like Politics is about prioritising. But politics is also about taking responsibility for our tax money. We have a long and very solid investigation that has been going on for over three years, has submitted good interim reports and is in its final phase. It is not taking responsibility for the tax money to close an investigation that is in its final stage. If the Social Democrats and the government are now so worried about the state finances that they are closing investigations, it is strange that a new inquiry into the general mission is being launched without reason. Even that investigation mission, I'm assuming, has cost a penny. I still ask myself: what do the Social Democrats want? An investigation has been set up. What do the Social Democrats want from it themselves? Why has the investigation been set up from the beginning? ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: Åsa Coenraad's questions may be considered rhetorical. )
i-RBWCRQoHhPeL5gsZvrMXQS	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have a number of reservations, but for time winning, I only apply for reservation 4, the General Mission of the Swedish Association of Hunters, and reservation 5, Other questions about game management and hunting. As far as the general mission is concerned, it has been shown that there has been broad political agreement that the Hunters' Association is doing a good job and that the Association will continue to be responsible for the tasks of this mission. I believe that the Hunters' Association should continue to work on increased cooperation between hunters, landowners and farmers in the field of wild boar management, elk management and game monitoring, to name but a few of the tasks of the general mission, which it has had since 1938. The mission has been investigated on several occasions. The Riksdag and the Government have every time concluded that the Hunters' Association does this in a trusting way and to about one sixth of what the cost would be if, for example, a state authority or work had been commissioned. The Swedish Hunter Association that works in the field must be said to be better suited than the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for the assignment. The review that we want to carry out is quite superfluous when so many investigations have already come to the same conclusion time and again. A hunting decision today is easier said than done with the supranationality of the EU and the new legal order that exists. The wolf hunt is stopped year after year. The stem is growing at a rapid pace now, while the elk strain is in free fall in the areas where the wolf concentration is greatest. Nor can you let your dogs go in the same way as before. Now the cape is also aimed at bird hunting and small game that are classified as protected species. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency did not object to the Government memo Amendment of the hunting regulation and the regulation on jurisdiction of general administrative courts. This means that decisions on hunting for birds and other protected species should be subject to appeal to the Administrative Court in the same way as can currently be appealed against wolf hunting decisions. Wild game management is increasingly at risk from old EU directives and courts than from regional administration based on many years of knowledge and experience. The Species and Habitats Directive, the Birds Directive and the Tale Law on Wildlife are three of the main reasons why hunting decisions taken in Sweden are often made impossible. The Swedish Democrats strongly oppose the EU's dictatement of Swedish game management. We see no added value in the fact that the European institutions are now dictating the conditions for hunting. The national Parliament shall always have the final say on matters relating to game management. Sweden must therefore regain the power to decide on the issues covered by the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. The right to speak must reasonably give more influence to the rural population concerned than to small environmental organisations, which are often completely unrooted in the area where hunting decisions can be appealed and stopped. Reducing conflicts and problems between predators and people in rural areas must be everyone's objective. Predators must be managed responsibly, and the combined predatory pressure must be maintained at reasonable levels throughout the country. This also applies to the management of other game to minimise crop damage, traffic accidents and more. In the end, too large a strain strikes back at the predators themselves, and as we know, the concentration of predators is very troublesome in some parts of the country. When the hunt is cancelled year after year, growth accelerates very quickly. Earlier over the years, where hunting, outdoor activities and animal husbandry have been possible, one can no longer feel the sense of security and freedom that one once felt. Too often you worry about the safety of your hunting dog and domestic animals. If you have children, you naturally feel anxious when they stay outside the home both during play and waiting for school shooting in the big dark forest. No one can rightly say that you should feel safe with vargrevir all the way to the knots. For example, in 2005 a young student was killed in Canada and in 2010 a woman in the jogging trail in Alaska. To believe in the talk that wolves are harmless to people is as naive as to think that we are vaccinated against terrorist attacks and suicide bombers here in Sweden. It's gonna happen sooner or later. The objective must, of course, be healthy and responsible game management, taking the experiences and concerns of rural people very seriously. When the wolf tribe grows, it can lead to more wolf attacks. Where predators get too close to civilization, there will eventually be dangerous encounters between wolf and man. It has been shown in other parts of the world. We should remember that here in Sweden the wolf lives very close to the rural population. It is not like Alaska, Canada and Siberia where there may not be many people living in the areas where there are wolves. Yet it is where such incidents and tragedies happen. Here in Sweden we live, as I said, very close to the wolf. When they become less shy of humans, it is absolutely necessary to keep a hunting pressure on the wolf and to teach the wolf that people are not kind creatures. There are so many predator experts who have explained that it must look like if we do not meet such fates in Sweden as well. In 2002, the Alaskan Department of Wildlife and Fisheries published a study on wolf attacks on people in Alaska and Canada. It was about eighty cases, but none of them fatal. That was before the two attacks I told you about. But they were all in areas where wolves are not hunted and where wolves have learned to seek food in the vicinity of man. With today's growing wolf strain concentrated in a few counties, we will also find it difficult to avoid situations where wolves in the same way learn to stay close to people. The terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels have led European politicians now to propose solutions to prevent terrorism. Unfortunately, these proposals are not aimed at terrorists, but rather at law-abiding citizens, hunters and sportsmen who are now trying to disarm more and more. For a dedicated hunter and sportsman without comment, it is on the verge of discriminatory that even from Swedish sources on their edges they want to make the possession of weapons more difficult for different types of hunting and shooting. As an arms holder, they have already qualified through a previously granted gun license, and, for example, as prospective licence seekers, they have passed the hunter'sxamen. Open borders are an easy way in for illegal weapons. It would be a far more effective measure to introduce permanent border controls than to make it more difficult for many hunters to carry out game conservation and exercise their right to hunt. The attitude of the Swedish democrats is that the Swedish line must lead to the fact that it facilitates legal ownership of arms and makes illegal ownership more difficult. One of the many main tasks of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is to be responsible for questions about hunting and game. But the question is whether the work does not have too many responsibilities. Hunting and game management is a major activity and employment for many people around the country. This should be a strong reason for transferring the responsibility for hunting and game to a pure authority that creates better dialogue with authorities, hunters' organisations and rural people in general. The processing of weapons licences could be put on a new hunting and game authority, thus freeing the police authority from this burden. A pure authority could thus lead to both a better rural approach and a more effective management of weapons licences, for example. As far as the proposed game agency is concerned, we are still waiting for the government to investigate, analyse and prepare further.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-714	Madam President, I would like We are gathered here today to debate hunting and game conservation. I support the committee's proposal. There is an announcement to the government that I do not support, but for the benefit of time I will not ask for approval of the reservation that we have with the Social Democrats and the Left Party. Hunting and game conservation is a subject that engages many. We have seen this not least in this House, where it is a frequently recurring subject. Although the number of loose hunting cards has decreased slightly in recent years, 290 000 hunting cards are still loosed each year, and I am one of them. Of the 290 000 people who solve hunting cards, over 30 000 were foreign hunters. But hunting affects so many more. This applies to people who are in the forest and land for quite different reasons. It is from mushroom pickers, canoeists, strollers, scouts and photographing tourists to pure tourist companies that earn their living by taking people out in nature to look at the animals and experience the Swedish nature. There are also companies that take people out on hunting tourism. However, not everyone is as positive about hunting or, for that matter, about the large game tribes that we have in some parts of the country. We have heard in previous speeches here about farmers who have their crops trampled down by wild boars or geese and about forest owners who have their pine plants eaten – or at least topped, one should say. It is therefore important that hunting and the management of the game take place in such a way that it creates acceptance and is rooted in society. Today we see that this is not always the case. The Green Party considers it important that hunting be modernised and harmonised with the rest of society. It shouldn't just be hunters who get to decide about the game. Everything wild belongs to all of us until it's shot. Much has happened since hunting legislation saw the light of day some time in the 1930s and – almost – got its current form in the 80's with some changes in small parts along the way. We have received better research and better environmental monitoring that has led to increased knowledge of our wild animals. It gives new cards on your hand. Several of our game tribes are far larger now than they used to be. It's a success story. We see newly-old species, like wild boars, who have come back. We see that we should probably manage in a different way, and some species – those that are not currently managed – may even start to be managed. Added to this is the EU's entry, the horticulture that we are using today in forestry, new hobbies and more that change the situation. We in the Green Party believe that we should have an ecosystem thinking when it comes to hunting. Today, each species is traditionally managed separately, but I think it is a bit outdated. It's starting to move. A new management system for moose was introduced in Sweden in 2012. This new system provides an eco-based, locally based and adaptive management model. It also requires cost-effective and quality-assured methods for monitoring in this case elk population, grazing pressure and also grazing damage. Actually it's nothing new; I think most hunters see that you have to save resources in order to have something to hunt in the future. But in the new moose husbandry areas, this was formalized. They began to look at how the moose populations are and how they are connected in a naturally adjacent and bounded area rather than just looking at their own hunting grounds. It has produced results. I can see what it looks like at home in my game conservation area, where I hunt moose. We were some of the first to start with the moose administration. The whole concept has given us a different age structure on the elk tribe. Just a few years after we had introduced this, we could shoot three shovel bulls – something that had not happened since the 80s. Many people now see the benefits of an administrative approach that takes a holistic approach. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to also include the Swedish Kronjortsförvaltningen when looking at what a stable administration should look like for the moose. I think it's just the beginning. SLU has also had a research programme that looked at cloven-hoofed game management. This includes elk, deer, deer and deer and hopefully wild boar in the future. Several species are therefore taken into account at the same time in the management. In the ongoing research programme, you check what it looks like with grazing pressure, access to feed and grazing damage. It examines what are appropriate inventory ranges to see how this affects the ecosystem. It is a good start, and we must have this knowledge. However, I believe that we will need a multi-stakeholder management based on the entire ecosystem and including predators. In the future, I hope to see what the soil looks like, how many predators there are in the area, how much they eat and how many of these we should have and how many we can have. What is the age distribution of the forest in the area? Is there enough food for the tribe? What level is it supposed to be on? Is there food? What is needed to prevent the strain from being pushed out into the arable land, for example? We must also look at how this relates to the other populations and game strains in the country so that we have a genetic exchange. Even if we have a local administration, we must also be able to see that it can be linked with the rest of the country or with other populations. This is not least about the traffic situation, as Isak From mentioned earlier. All of these are questions that I think you have to ask yourself before you decide whether to launch and how to estimate stocks. I believe that we will then have a more comprehensive approach. I believe that we should come up with a vision of the whole and talk about wild animal husbandry areas or, in a real sense, wild areas. We shall have an ecosystem-based game management that takes into account the viability of the soil, the species that are there and how they integrate with each other. It should be an administration that goes along with today's knowledge, creates acceptance and harmonises with society. I think that's the key to modern hunting and wildlife conservation.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-728	Madam President, I would like Let me begin with the fact that I too am in favour of reservation No 4. In short, I do so because, as some previous speaker has said, I think that this general mission with its 80-year history has been successful. It has been a successful cooperation between civil society and the state. It is also financed outside the budget laid down annually in this House, which means that it is the hunters who pay the cost of the party. This was the first. Madam President, I would like Secondly, let me say that I believe that the party I represent and, for example, the Social Democrats in practice agree on many of the things we are discussing today. As I see it, the problem is that the current government, of which the Social Democrats are part, has problems in pushing through what I believe the Social Democrats agree with my party. We cannot agree that there is something practical and effective in the present formation of the government. Thirdly, Madam President, let me make the same observation that someone else has made: from being loud and calling for action from previous governments on some of the issues we are discussing today, the government has in some way changed hands. It has been done by closing down the hunting team investigation that had come a long way – more than halfway. It had handled its mission in a decent way by tackling the problem that I think we all want to solve and have an answer to. However, the government has not since managed to get very fast-footed. It's all been pulled on a long bench. The results in the form of changes in the regulations, legislations and the like that need to be made have not arrived. Nothing has been presented, but it is under constant investigation and analysis. It doesn't solve any problems. In order not to use too much of this House's time, I would like to conclude by saying that there was a wise person about 500 years before Kristus who said that the wise one is slow in his speech but quick in action. It is the truth to say nothing that one can blame the present government for being in these contexts. Nothing is happening, and I think it should.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-732	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' view is that hunting policy should be decided here in Parliament and not in Brussels. Wildlife populations in Sweden should be managed in such a way that animals and people can live side by side. Hunting is primarily a national matter. We therefore want to avoid decisions on hunting being taken to the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. For this reason, the Christian Democrats have been a driving force both here in Parliament and in the European Parliament in terms of updating and revising both the Birds Directive and the EU Species and Habitats Directive, so that they are based on today's situation and not yesterday's and that national decision-making rights should also apply in practice. Both wolves and cormorants are on the red list of endangered species of these directives, which cannot be considered to reflect today's situation. We know that there are 350 to 400 wolves in Sweden, which means that large parts of our country experience problems with the wolf. Last week we were able to read about an unsustainable situation for a farmer's family in Gnesta who was exposed to not one and not two but eleven wolf attacks and lost about eighty animals. Of course it's deeply tragic. It is not acceptable to live in such a situation. We must achieve better protection and licensing in our country. Madam President, I would like Another major problem is the almost explosive increase in wild boar that we are experiencing in our country. The feral pig strain is estimated at 350 000 animals today. And statistics show that the tribe has doubled in about three years. The wild boars cause damage for millions of dollars each year. It is devastating for farmers and other rural traders. They are constantly getting their fields, mowing embankments and gardens demolished by pouting wild boar flocks. We can then go to southern Sweden. Then we see that one in four Scanian farmers suffers game damage on their farms, where wild boars are the biggest problem. In Blekinge, wild boars destroyed 12 percent of the oat harvest two years ago. And according to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the large number of wild boars has forced many farmers to stop growing certain crops that they know the wild boars are particularly fond of. So they have adapted in this way. The abundance of wild boars also brings them close to civilization. Crowded cemeteries, gardens and golf courses are common. Isak From mentioned earlier the traffic situation and wildlife accidents. We know that the rampage of wild boars is also evident in traffic. The number of wild boar accidents has increased significantly over the last decade. It is said that some 3,000 wildlife accidents a year — nearly 60 a week — are caused by wild boars in our country. That's a large number. And we know that there will be particularly great damage precisely because wild boars have a low centre of gravity. What responsibility do we have as political elected representatives on this issue? Yes, we must ensure that the hunt is extended and that we can ensure that traders affected by wild boars receive better compensation. It should also be easier to get wild boar meat on the market, so that more consumers can buy the meat. It could also stimulate hunting. Today, the requirements for handling meat are so complicated and expensive that the hunter often takes care of the meat himself. Smaller regulatory problems and maintaining safety in the quality of meat are not impossible. I therefore recommend that it should be reviewed how farmers and others can be compensated for lost harvest and destroyed fences and that the government should review how the shooting of wild boars can increase in order to significantly reduce the wild boar strain and its serious harmful effects. Otherwise, Madam President, we know that we will have 700 000 wild boars in our country in 2018. We Christian Democrats have been given a clear message at our national level about how to deal with this issue. Therefore, I feel that I have the party behind me when I ask for reservation 1 that the draft parliamentary decision under paragraph 2 should read as follows: The Parliament agrees with what is stated in the reservation and announces this to the government.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-744	Madam President, I would like Åsa Coenraads mentioned a lot about the Hunting Act investigation. I would also like to mention something about it and how important it is that the Riksdag announces to the Government that by 2016 it will investigate the issue of a new agency for hunting and game management and certain remaining issues that were covered by the mandate of the Hunting Act investigation. I regret, as many others have done, that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party here in Parliament want to reject the motion for a resolution that the Hunting Act investigation should be allowed to complete its work as soon as possible. It's important. The Alliance government decided in July 2012 to set up the investigation, which would review the Swedish hunting legislation. The mission, as you have heard before, under an additional directive would be finalized by 30 December 2015. The new Red-Green Government decided in February 2015 that the Hunting Act investigation would end. The government's decision leaves a number of important issues unsolved, which I regret. I therefore urge the Riksdag to approve the Alliance's motion to announce to the Government that the Hunting Act investigation will complete its work under item 4.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-747	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. For some reason, only the Liberals are behind the proposal in its entirety, but it may be a sign in the sky. Of course, I particularly support the proposal for a declaration to the Government contained in paragraph 4, certain issues relating to hunting and game conservation. That is the point that Isak From called populism. But perhaps I would refer to it as impatience, that we want to come forward on this issue. Among other things, it is about resuming and completing a number of important parts of the Red Green Government in early February 2015 closed the Hunting Act investigation. It was an investigation that had been going on since 2012, following a decision by the Alliance government. One can think about what Isak From meant by the government working intensively on the issue. I don't think it was really this point, the closure of the investigation, he meant when it came to working intensively. Furthermore, it is a position on a new wildlife authority, which has also been discussed in the past. Both of these decisions are based on ensuring long-term sustainable hunting and game management, working well with other rural industries and enhancing sustainable land use. I can well agree with what Emma Nohrén said, that it is important that it is based on dialogue, local support and acceptance. It is like what the whole administration must build on if it is to become credible over time. Madam President, I would like It has been discussed here and there about tax money here and there and, of course, one can only feel that it would be a waste of tax money if the work that has been put into the Hunting Act investigation were to fail. That is why it was really very gratifying that the committee pointed this out just under a year ago and highlighted the points that we wanted to have continued to investigate. I think there were eight points, and I do not need to list them now, but it was about continuing the investigation into this. It is a matter of both eliminating unnecessary conflicts, clarifying the regulatory framework and simplifying procedures. As is rightly pointed out in the reservation from S, V and MP, this is in letter 75 from the Government, Statement of the handling of Parliament's letters to the Government. It came in March, and if you read it you get a very insecure feeling that this is getting into a long bench. Therefore, the important and new thing in this announcement is that there is a time aspect, that we are now talking about 2016 and that this is not supposed to take so terribly long. I really think that we should be able to be valiant in being able to agree that there is no reason to delay. In this letter from the government on the announcements that exist, it is not that there is a good report on very many points. On some points a few steps have been taken, but most points are further investigated in some kind of ambiguities that are rather striking. Madam President, I would like The Liberals and the majority in committee have the same demand for urgency when it comes to taking a position on a new game agency. It states in the same letter that I mentioned just now that there is a need for further investigation, for the issues to be analysed and for the matter to be further prepared. But now that you hear the argument here from the speaker's chair, you do not want to touch on this issue at all, but you are discussing other issues. The most important and fundamental argument for tackling this issue is that we need to have a holistic approach to game management and hunting issues, and then we actually need to move on and discuss the issue at length. It is about balancing many different interests, and an authority that can take overall responsibility is, of course, a strength. As mentioned by some previous speaker, hunting as well as fishing and tourism provide an opportunity for economic activity in rural areas, and there are great economic values to take advantage of for the Swedish countryside. Wolf has also been mentioned here. It usually comes up in these contexts. I think we have discussed the wolf in very many contexts earlier in this parliamentary term, so we may not have to get so excited about it right now. But we can still note that with the Supreme Administrative Court ruling here in December, you have the right to appeal the decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It's a judgment we have to relate to. I've said it before, and I'll say it again: What's happening now? We still need to have a working system. Perhaps we should have the new one in court proceedings, in court proceedings. But then it is a question of the government having to react to this in some way and put forward proposals on how to get such an effective judicial process that it works in the same way and has the same purpose as the proposal put forward by the Alliance Government. It has to work in practice and not as it is now, because when there are court proceedings, the hunting of wolves is virtually impossible. I am still calling for this type of government proposal. I do not know where the question is today, but I hope that it does not end up in the same loan line as much else.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-761	Madam President, I would like With regard to hunting and game conservation, it is extremely important that our hunters also have access to the right weapons and also the opportunity to both train and practice their sportsmanship in order to be able to have a good safety and a good opportunity to do a good job in the forest, in the game conservation work. We know, however, that today the Social Democrats are governed by the Green Party in relation to these issues, that is, they are against the hunting weapons that exist, they are against the firearms that exist and are legal here in Sweden and they are doing everything to ensure that there is more wolf in the forest and less domestication in our open countryside. It poses a great threat that the Social Democrats have so brutally turned their backs on these issues and simply support the Green Party's harsh demands to change this in the completely wrong direction. The government is at the same time working on the weapons directive in the EU. From these negotiations, there are a number of different approaches to the approach taken by Sweden. Isak From said here in the speaker's chair that in opposition we cause concern about this. No, it is the government and its negotiators who are causing enormous concern in these discussions. One thing has been said in Parliament and one thing has been decided. That is how you go down to the EU and run other issues. That is why I have to ask Isak From: is it what you say here in Parliament that applies, or is it the protocols in the European Union that apply when we assess what line you are taking in the European negotiations? This causes great concern for the country's hunters and shooters. Regarding the Wildlife Authority, Isak From mentioned in his speech that you should investigate it further. You have now had over a year to look through this. Nothing has happened, and so it continues. There's a majority here in Parliament for us to have a game agency. The government will then of course deliver it to Sweden so that we can manage our game management in a completely different way than today. I would like to ask Isak From: When will we have this game agency in place, which Parliament has actually ordered? When will the decisions be taken? When will we be told? Surely it is not that you intend to obstinate on this issue and ignore the parliament and the people's will in Sweden to actually set up this wildlife authority and move some of both wildlife conservation and possibly also weapons licenses to the new wildlife authority? Isak From also spoke about the Swedish model in his speech. Then I would like to ask you some control questions. Does Isak From mean that the Swedish model is long processing times for weapons licences and reduction of weapons for sporting and hunting? Why do you run that line? Is it really the Swedish model according to Isak From to take away both sportsmen and hunters their weapons and also make sure that they have such long processing times for weapons licenses today so that those who today in Skåne area want a gun license will not have any license for elk hunting this autumn? Now there is not so much moose down in Skåne, but Blekinge and Småland in Kronoberg County are also affected in the same way. I would like answers to these questions: are the EU protocols correct? When is the Swedish Wildlife Agency in place? Will the Weapons Directive affect hunters' and sportsmen's weapons in Sweden?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-770	Madam President, I would like I couldn't help but press the button and ask for a reply when Sten Bergheden swinges high and low against the Green Party and claims that the government would have laid flat for us and that we want to abolish everything. I can assure Sten Bergheden that I don't shoot moose with slingshots. I believe that we agree in Parliament on how we stand before the EU's weapons directive. I know that Sten Bergheden has previously put interpellations to Minister Ygeman who is responsible for these questions. Parliament has said through the Committee on Justice and then in the EU Council that we want safe storage of weapons, exceptions for 18-year limits for possession where necessary, exceptions to the requirement for medical examination, exemptions from the ban on fully automatic weapons, exceptions for requirements for five-year time limits on permits and clarification of what should be done with semi-automatic weapons similar to fully automatic ones. The Swedish Parliament has agreed on how the Swedish line should be run. Then there are certain things that we in the Green Party think should be reviewed. I know that our MEPs have pushed the issue of a medical examination in the first acquisition of weapons. Basically, we agree that the Swedish system is good, and that is what we want to transfer to the EU rather than new charges.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-773	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Emma Nohrén takes up the position of the Green Party, but she forgets the positions taken in the EU negotiations. Then maybe Emma Nohrén can answer if you're in favor of or against a license at a weapons warehouse. Do you think that a sporting weapon poses a threat in the country to terrorism and other things? Is it reasonable for it to be such a tough piece of legislation that certain sporting activities must be banned and, by extension, certain hunting weapons that can be re-defined to these weapons? Does Emma Nohrén think it is right to abolish sports shooting? Are the protocols in the European Union correct, or are you saying something else here, namely that you want a licence for weapons warehouses in the European Union? That, in fact, is what has been in the minutes. It is good if Emma Nohrén can deny that the Green Party is running that line. What line should we trust? Should we trust what you say here in Parliament, to try to reassure public opinion, or should we trust what is actually written in the protocols in Europe? I'd like some answers on this. It is a major and important issue for over 600 000 arms owners in the country. They listen carefully to what you will answer in the question. Are the protocols correct? Would you like to introduce licensing requirements for weapons warehouses? Do you want to remove Swedish sporting weapons? There are three simple questions.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-776	Madam President, I would like We believe that the Swedish model with safe storage, control and registers has worked well. Then there are some parts where we think there can be a tightening up. Armoured magazines are such a question. Today, whether you're a gun owner or not, you can buy magazines for weapons. Some weapons that are approved for one type of warehouse can also be used with other warehouses. Therefore, it is reasonable to buy magazines that belong to the weapon you have, but if you do not have a weapon, you also have no use for a magazine. That's perfectly reasonable. Unfortunately, this did not happen during yesterday's negotiations in the European Union. Anyone who has a weapon that requires a warehouse should be able to buy them, but anyone who does not have such a weapon, I do not think has any reason to buy a warehouse.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-779	Madam President, I would like I did not get an answer on whether the licence requirement remains with the Swedish Government, that is to say, the requirement for a licence for weapons warehouses. Let's not talk about buying magazines for a gun you don't have. That is a completely different question. Would the Green Party and the government like to introduce licensing requirements for weapons warehouses, as recommended by protocol in the EU? Are the protocols correct? Does the government pursue a line in Sweden and then negotiate with a different direction in the EU? It's extremely serious. We in Sweden have decided that the line should be that hunters and sportsmen should be able to continue hunting and shooting. That is the spirit of the directives we have drawn up here. But you have interpreted a limitation in this. Will Swedish hunters and sportsmen be affected by the weapons directive that you are now negotiating? Would you like to introduce licensing requirements for weapons warehouses? Are the protocols correct or not?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-782	Madam President, I would like Welcome to the Environment and Agriculture Committee's debate, Sten Bergheden! Sten Bergheden is appointed moderate spokesperson on rural issues. There are many of us who are curious about how it has happened because we know Sten Bergheden as a person who swings freely like a windmill in all directions. Maybe that's how the tactics are on the Moderate side. For lack of other things, you send out your terrier Sten Bergheden to bite us in the leg. There could be a part of it. As I said in my speech, arms legislation is based on a long tradition of the Swedish model of order. A long-term system has been built up. We're behind it. We are behind the order in this House with an EU committee and a specialist committee negotiating. We stand up for decisions made on the issues. Sten Bergheden has said something quite different in the debate. It will stand for Sten Bergheden. What is clear is the documents which have been carried out and which Anders Ygeman will carry out. The political negotiation has not even started once. Anyone who is familiar with the matter knows that it will not be decided until the autumn at the earliest. When the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament have spoken, Sten Bergheden goes out in the debate and says that it is something quite different. Sten Bergheden holds on to his windmill propaganda – nothing else. We Social Democrats think that the introduction of regional administration was a good thing. We want to build on that part. We do not believe that a new authority would create order, but just new bureaucracy.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-787	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the question of a game agency. In fact, when the Swedish Parliament decides to establish a game agency, it is up to the government to implement the decision in a reasonable manner. As Isak From says here, the government intends to obstinate. There is no need for a wildlife agency. This is exactly the opposite of what a majority in the Swedish Parliament has ordered. It is appropriate and good if the government delivers the game agency within a reasonable time, as the Swedish Parliament has decided. Who's causing anxiety? Let us take a clear line in the country. The Minister has previously said that sportsmen and hunters will be fine. Then there has been a turn in the discussions. We can then see the minutes of the European Union testifying to a completely different line. What's the deal, Isak From? Is that what Isak From says today, what the Minister is saying here today, or the actual protocols that are being kept in the negotiations in the European Union? It was a few simple and straightforward questions. Explain to the Swedish people what applies! Is this the position of the Minister or Isak From or is that what the Minutes of the negotiations show? What's the deal? What line do you create? Who is it that is causing concern in the hands of the country's gun holders and hunters today? It's you Social Democrats.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-792	Madam President, I would like It is clear to everyone that it is Sten Bergheden who creates confusion. We stand by what we have agreed in the Committee on Justice and the European Council. We stand by what Minister Ygeman has said. There is no doubt about it. Sten Bergheden knows very well that these negotiations are far from being concluded. We conduct conversations based on what we have built up through years of order and order. Then I can agree with Sten Bergheden that we have inherited a situation in which several police authorities are delaying licensing periods in an unacceptable way. During the last parliamentary term, we also made joint announcements that this must end. Parliament said it's not good. The Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office said it's not okay. The former bourgeois government also changed the Police Authority, which we supported. This is now being implemented, and the Police Authority must ensure that there is a level playing field no matter where you live in the country. There should be no doubt whatsoever. The regional administration, as I said in my speech, is based on the fact that we are going to deal with those parts of the country where we have grazing injuries and where we have a high predatory pressure. We believe that it is the regional wildlife management delegations and county boards that are best placed to carry out this activity. The Environmental Protection Agency is the authority that handles the Species and Habitats Directive – from which we do not come, in no way, although Sten Bergheden may want to bring something else forward. We believe that this is the authority we need to strengthen in order to create equivalence and to take care of the conditions prevailing in the various parts of the country. We are not going to create new bureaucracy. Anders Borg was laughing when you proposed a new authority that would cost money, and you have not put forward a single proposal with that focus now that you are in opposition.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-799	Madam President, I would like Once again, I hear that Isak From has not intended to create a new wildlife agency. In that case, it would be to obstinate against the Parliament's decision. In fact, in the case of wolf, this issue was recently raised in the EU. They wanted to review the Species and Habitats Directive. The Social Democrats voted against it. They think it is good that this issue is decided down in the EU while we Moderates want to move it home to Sweden. The Social Democrats are on a completely different line than the Moderates and the Alliance are on these issues. I have not received an answer here from Isak From. But he has the opportunity to tell us what is right in speeches and other things. Is that protocol or not? I have not received an answer to that question. With regard to the second part that Isak From talked about here, the Swedish model: As I see it, it is not a new Swedish model that prevails here at the moment, but it is the Social Democratic model. It means chaos on the wolf issue. Today, the wolf increases while the government sits and discusses how to resolve this in courts. We have long processing times and chaos on the arms side, and we have chaos and unrest around the arms directive, where the government is so unclear, despite the fact that Parliament has been clear and has given this directive to negotiators and ministers to resolve the issue down in the EU. So it is not a Swedish model you have created. You have created the Social Democratic chaos model that has made game conservation not work in the country, that arms management does not work in the country and that license management does not work in the country. It is you who are in power, Isak From. It is you who should correct this. You weren't supposed to sit there and make things even worse.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-805	Madam President, I would like There is tough competition in Parliament today, if you like, with Michelle Bachelet in the Second Chamber. We are now going to debate the school system. I would like to begin by saying that I am of course in favour of all the S reservations, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 65 and otherwise in favour of the proposal contained in report UbUl4. Last year's debate on the school system I began by emphasising that we in the Swedish primary school have amazing teachers, driving school leaders and students who are doing outstanding achievements. I stressed how important they are, all adults who assist students in their various professions in their learning, because everywhere there are students struggling with basic skills, aesthetic subjects, national tests, oral performances, history knowledge and special work. I would also like to emphasise today that those who work in Swedish schools have a lot to be proud of, even if the school faces major challenges. But when I said that for politicians at national level it is absolutely crucial that we take our responsibility, do our part and do not interfere with the wrong issues, I could not imagine that a year later we would still have debate and announcements about school leaving in the church, even though there is no real problem, or announcements of national tests, even though an investigation has just made proposals that are currently being prepared. We must – I say must – be able to focus on what is important for the school and demonstrate that we are capable of taking responsibility. Madam President, I would like I think we can do more. A year has now passed since the last debate. I do not intend to dwell on every single reservation in this report, but instead to give a picture of how the S ocial democrats view the school and what efforts the government is making. Firstly, the addition of resources to schools is finally a priority over major tax cuts. The focus has been and is early intervention, an attractive teacher's profession and an equal school. Nothing has so far made me doubt that direction. 2.8 billion on an annual basis to primary school and fritis is a lot of money. Together with pre-school money and 10 welfare billions, they make many municipal politicians feel that they can finally invest in the activities that so badly need it. In addition, we invest 3 billion in teacher's salary and over half a billion more in strategic work to reverse development in vulnerable areas with the Swedish National Agency for Education and National School Development programmes. Speaking of equal conditions for schools and for pupils, it becomes so clear to me that we must also be able to discuss the consequences of when the market is allowed too much leeway in school. In the wake of a weak regulation of the free school market, we can see school failures, grade inflation and lack of dimensioning. Schools are set up and closed down – just like in any private market. This is not acceptable. We must ensure that there is order in the Swedish school system, that all schools are good schools and that it is the students' knowledge development that is put first in Swedish school – never profit interest. Madam President, I would like On the issue of responsibility and the governance chain at school, it needs to be made clearer to everyone and everyone what it looks like. Pupils should also have a level playing field to achieve the knowledge objectives regardless of background and socio-economic residence. Here, the School Commission has a clear mission based on, among other things, the OECD's Sweden Report. What the School Commission will come up with does not affect us politicians. But the reactions to their work will be an important temperature meter of our political will to see things as they are and to take to us a – hopefully – coherent view of the most essential measures required. I myself look forward to the Commission's interim report, which is presented next week, and subsequently its final report, so that we can take a stand on it. We simply need a map that is updated against reality in order to navigate correctly. I believe that politicians have for too long stuck to their picture of problems without taking the impression of how reality has actually changed. It can also be called ideological locking. Madam President, I would like A further contribution to progress is the work done by the government within the framework of the National Collection for Teacher Proficiency. To have the parties with you is undoubtedly to listen to the profession and to take the problems that really exist seriously. Yesterday we were able to read at DN Debate that several steps are now agreed to strengthen teachers and principals in their profession. On the contrary, from the fact that major reforms have been implemented without broad support and with a lack of reflection, future reforms will be developed with broad consensus. They shall be as firmly anchored as it is only possible for them to implement them. To this end, an investigator will be appointed to develop proposals for strengthening the legitimacy of career positions. I read in it the criticism that has been made about the lack of equivalence – that career services can be designed quite differently in different municipalities and thus do not contribute to the overall picture of the teaching profession's opportunities. Preschool managers are going to be principals. This is an issue that we Social Democrats have been pushing for a long time – without the support of previous governments and therefore without success. I am extremely pleased that it is now becoming a reality. The licence reform will also be adjusted. Based on the experience that can now be drawn, adjustments are made to the regulation that governs the licence in dialogue with trade unions and principals. The work also includes the development of a timetable for the inclusion of leisure teachers, mother tongue teachers and sva teachers in the qualification system. My hope is that shortcomings in the system that we are all being addressed in different ways will finally be addressed. The topic of the National Collection is to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession and get more people to apply for the profession. Therefore, I am also pleased that the school leader perspective is included. I strongly and urgently argue that a school must have a headmaster with good conditions to lead the school's work and the educational development work that is the basis for teachers' skills and well-being and ultimately the students' success. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight the efforts that the government is now making to promote school digitisation and IT use. Unfortunately, the previous government ducked for these issues, but now important work has finally begun. These are national IT strategies for the entire school system, skills development efforts to raise teachers' digital skills and steps towards digitisation of the national tests. This is something that Håkan Bergman will talk more about in his speech. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about the announcement that there is about more sport and the reasons for the reservation that the Social Democrats are behind. This seems to be a popular measure that is liked not least by the gym teacher on SVT. However, there are two reasons for not pressing the button for more sports lessons today. The first is that discussions are ongoing on the hourly plan as a whole. If this work is to succeed, it is unfortunate when a parallel order list is sent from the Riksdag. However, the main reason for not voting for more hours of sport is now more factual and starts from the public hearing organised by the Education Committee last spring. The ambition was to learn more about how movement affects learning and how we can increase the movement in school. It was extremely rewarding, and I took with me a lot from the talks and hearings, especially that one must know what one wants to achieve. If there is more movement, the strategy needs to cover the entire school day. If it is a question of getting more people to consolidate good habits, lessons need to be much more comprehensive in terms of health. If more people are going to participate in sport today, it cannot be more of the same. If the sports teacher is to be well placed to develop the subject, it is not good enough for the sports teachers to have the least competence development, have a high proportion of unauthorized teachers and, moreover, is the teacher category that is least involved in the collegial work. The movement and physical activity need to increase, not least during the later years of comprehensive school. But the way there needs to be problematized a little and not overly controlled by big headlines and news. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude in the spirit that I started, by saying that it is about wanting to find one another, seeing what is common and taking the help of the most coherent research we can find. Then I think we can start a common path towards an equal school of knowledge, a school for all.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-831	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that we are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of alliance reservations 8 and 49. The school should be a place for learning and future faith, knowledge and joy, and not least the school should be the place that gives all students good opportunities to grow. Parents and pupils should feel confident that time in school is devoted to equipping students with knowledge for future study and professional life. During my years as a teacher, I have seen what it means for a student to succeed in school – to feel successful after struggling and toil, sometimes even tears, and break the code. Being involved as a teacher in this is something that feels incredibly large and important, and although pay and the working environment are extremely important issues – I am the first to emphasise – this is an aspect of the teaching profession that deserves to be raised more often: to feel that what you do is important and plays a role and that the effort you make in guiding and supporting can mean that extra things that make the student find the way. I am sure that other teachers, inside and outside this House, can agree when I say that one of the best receipts that teachers can get is when former students make contact and thank you for never giving up and always supporting further. Therefore, my involvement in this House is not an empty rhetorical speech, but I actually see the faces of a number of my old students in front of me. I know what it means not to have received the support you needed when you started school. I know what it means to get to seventh grade and not bring the knowledge needed to move on and feel that you can and that you succeed. Our task in this House is to give teachers and students the absolute best conditions for this. Knowledge should always be the focus, and the knowledge school that the Alliance government worked so hard to restore in Swedish schools must be developed and supported – not, as with the current government, be devalued and dismantled. The Swedish school faces many new challenges, such as the large number of newly arrived students who have come to our country in a short time. We see many good examples of innovative teachers who manage to perform miracles in their classrooms with little means. However, there are also schools where the results continue to lag behind and where there are insufficient resources and skills to provide all students with the right help and support. All in all, this is a development that should make every minister of education, regardless of party colour, react and act. Unfortunately, however, we have seen a government that has rather blocked important and decisive changes in the school system. Mr President, I would like to Therefore, we Moderates are clear that Swedish students need to learn more in the Swedish school. This requires that important and directly crucial parts of school work better and interact better with each other. A better functioning management and management of the school, a strengthened teaching profession and a stronger learning and knowledge focus are three such parts. But, Mr President, our Achilles heel in Sweden has long been the early development of knowledge among children and students. Despite the fact that research is clear and that we in this House have talked about the importance of early support, the reality has been different. If and when support and help comes, unfortunately, it often comes too late. In our Sweden, no child should fall between the chairs. All children shall be given the resources to which they are entitled. We Moderates have therefore, together with the alliance parties, long pushed the issue of converting today's preschool class into new class 1 with school starting from the age of six. Unlike the government's proposal to make pre-school classes compulsory, starting school from the age of six would mean a new year with knowledge goals that are sued by and evaluated from grade one. It would provide better conditions for the six-year-olds. And unlike today's preschool class, which according to evaluations is of a very uneven quality, this would give students completely different conditions to previously develop their abilities and strengthen the upcoming learning in school. The Alliance government set up a primary school inquiry to look at, among other things, this issue. We also wanted to investigate how teachers' skills can best support learning in terms of reading, writing and counting, and especially in relation to those preschool teachers who today often teach in the preschool class. There were once good conditions for the ten-year primary school to become a reality. In the then budget there was money set aside, and a primary school inquiry was, as I said, underway. On the part of the Moderates, there was long hope for consensus and cooperation on this. We were interested in dialogue to get to grips with this issue. However, when the directives for the comprehensive school inquiry were amended early on, it was clear that the government chose a different path. But as you know, hope is the last thing that abandons us. Therefore, I and several others were very pleased that the Riksdag decided last year that the government would return to the Riksdag with a proposal on what a ten-year primary school would look like. Such a proposal was to be presented to the Riksdag by 31 August 2015. But time passed, the government led by Gustav Fridolin chose to ignore Parliament's decisions on this issue, and we have not yet seen any proposal. My question now is how the government intends to deal with this issue, when Parliament is now again clearly taking a stand for a ten-year primary school. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a country that is built and competes with knowledge. Therefore, it is a clear priority for us Moderates that we do not intend to save on school. On the contrary, we must now ensure that schools are strengthened so that all pupils are given the right opportunities to grow in school. Swedish students must learn more in school and have at least as much time in the classroom as in other comparable countries. Therefore, in our spring exercise, we propose that the teaching time should be increased by one hour per day starting in primary school. At the same time, our focus on more mathematics in high school remains. This is an investment of up to SEK 6 billion in more education at school. It is one of the largest collective educational efforts in Sweden for a long time and will strengthen students' knowledge and ultimately Sweden's position as a knowledge nation. At the same time, the attractiveness of the teaching profession needs to be increased through higher wages and better quality in teacher training. In addition to the 3 billion teacher wage investment, we want to expand the career service system and expand the focus on first teachers in exclusion areas. The world around us is in constant motion. The school that we once had in Sweden has now been rerun. Around us, a number of other countries are doing better in terms of knowledge. It is a development that is worrying, not because things are going better for other countries, but because it does not look as bright for Sweden. A growing and prosperous Sweden requires a school that gives all students the right conditions for learning and knowledge from day one in school. For this to become a reality, both a political will and a political courage are needed to change what does not work or what has a potential build us stronger. That is anything but what the Social Democrats and the Green Party have shown us as we are now approaching half-time in the parliamentary term. I note that my colleague Lena Hallengren is very happy and happy about what is now expected to happen, and we must hope that she is right, because if the outcome is the same after four years as it is now after two years it will be very lean. With both national and international surveys on the table, we Moderates had expected a greater interest from the government to reverse the findings. Instead, we have been faced with vague statements and a paralysed government that does not seem to know what it wants and answers every school policy issue with a new investigation. Yesterday we were able to read in DN what the government wants regarding school. It was mostly a statement of self-evidentness and a statement that the positive reforms introduced by the Alliance government are to be maintained. And who can't agree that it's good for the principals to become the educational leaders they need to be? Who doesn't think so? But did it say anything about how to do it? Was there anything at all about how something was to be done? No, as usual, of course, it didn't. Well, I'll be honest. A positive message is that the moderate proposal to make the pre-school manager's education compulsory, like other principals, has been heard. It was included – very pleasing. And clarity was good. It was an article in which the government was pleased that the national tests were removed. It is good that we now have this black and white. Thereby we have another example of how the government values knowledge and the national tests as knowledge controls – or does not value them. It is a heavy report, Mr President, which we are discussing today with no less than five announcements in important areas falling into the government's lap. A majority in the Swedish Parliament wants to see more sports in school, want to see a ten-year primary school, want to see clarity around school graduations in church and mark the importance of digital competence development for our teachers and digital national exams. This means that the Swedish Government receives a very clear signal about the importance of these issues from the Swedish Parliament. It is also a clear signal of what you do not want to see. We have a government that releases the knowledge focus that the Alliance government so strongly worked to restore. The Swedish Parliament's majority is sending another signal today. We will continue to work for a strong school and a strong focus on knowledge.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-859	Mr President, I would like to First I listened for two and a half minutes to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall who described students in school and a reality that I think many of us recognize. That is precisely why we are politically committed. We believe that we should be able to reverse the development and make students who make a school proud of and with results that enable them to move on to the professions via further studies and so on. But then it still becomes a little incomprehensible how Camilla Waltersson Grönvall will constantly land in that school today is dismantled. And there are almost no knowledge requirements left, if I'm going to read a little between the lines, and the government does nothing. These are certainly not particularly surprising comments. However, I would still like to ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall a question. The challenges facing Swedish schools are quite serious. It was not that the curves turned and began to point in the right direction during the eight years you had the opportunity to rule, the first four of which did not have to make a single compromise in Parliament. Next week, the School Commission will present its interim report, and there is certainly little time left for a final report, but the ambition is to have a common basis for a common understanding of Swedish policy on how to reverse developments, not of the entire school policy, but how to reverse developments in Swedish schools. I would like to ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall how she sees the conditions for finding each other in different areas of school policy, not for the government's sake, not for the opposition's sake, but for the school's sake. It requires long-term conditions and not that we hit each other in the head with different announcements and that every four years we change reforms, rating systems and teacher training. How does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall view these conditions, and how is she herself prepared to contribute?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-863	Mr President, I would like to I believe, like my colleague Lena Hallengren, that it is important that we find consensus on a number of issues. But it is also very important that in a situation where we now see falling knowledge results, we do not lose the knowledge focus that we have worked so hard to get back in Swedish school. I was on field trips before 2006 and is today and can testify that things are quite different now. Today, there is nowhere you can go without students, teachers and parents being very focused on the development of knowledge and the results of knowledge. But it hasn't come for free. It has been a question of having a curriculum, of having a school law, of getting a lot of other things in place that happened under eight years of alliance government, which today provides better conditions. Then, like all the reforms, we must always evaluate and, in some cases, rearrange. But the important thing is the red line of knowledge that has been around all along on the part of the alliance government. I can assure Lena Hallengren that I can do everything in my power to get us a school that continues to focus on knowledge. It is precisely for this reason that I am very concerned when the current government takes so lightly, for example, the national tests, because their importance, not least in grade three, has been absolutely crucial because we have been able to deploy resources and support early on for those students who need it most. Here I stand with the government's own spring proposal and read before me: a reduction in special education by 100 million. Then I get a little worried and wonder how Lena Hallengren sees that it will benefit better knowledge results.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-867	Mr President, I would like to We have had a great reception for refugees, and I think that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and I fully agree that it will be of great benefit to our country and that we will take care of it. It also entails certain costs. Some costs and expenses have thus had to move between the years. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall expressed it herself when she quoted from the budget. It's money coming back. However, I would like to ask whether Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, if she is going to evaluate and re-furnish a little in the policy that you implemented over eight years, can give some examples of something that you could imagine looking at anyway, something that perhaps did not turn out very well. If we are to seek consensus in politics and common solutions, we cannot come up with one hundred per cent of our own. I think that basically it is the problem of the Moderates and the Alliance that you have the whole truth for yourself and that no one else can have anything to contribute with. That is a fundamental problem. I would also like to hear something about the announcements by, among others, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's party that the government should review national tests and external correction. Should I take it that Tommy Berggren's investigation is not good enough, that it is not worth preparing but that we should do that work again? And does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall mean that it has not been possible before for students to complete school in the church? Should I understand that the digital learning lift is not at all part of the national collaboration programmes? Isn't there quite a lot of good to say about all the digital work that's going on? Let us look back on the eight years of complete disinterest shown by certainly not a moderate representative, but by a liberal, then popular party. What are the areas where one can consider evaluating and refurbishing and seeking common solutions? Where is the support, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-871	Mr President, I would like to I note that it is somehow claimed that 100 million minus will come back. There's no 100 million coming back. The 100 million will disappear for students in need of special education during the year. There are no political rhetorical tricks or anything else that can cause this money to fall back. That money is forever gone, and something else is totally dishonest to say. On the other hand, there are 100 million in school facilities. It's more important. It is quite incredible, for how many school facilities and support for school premises do you get for 100 million? No, it would have been better to focus on what really gives results in school, and it is among other things special education and support and efforts for the children who need it – not least the new arrivals. It doesn't make any sense. So far, I have not found any government representative who can defend or explain how to remove 100 million in special education and make it make sense – for the reason that it simply is not. With regard to things that need to be evaluated, the basic approach is, of course, that it applies to everything. That is why we contribute with great constructiveness, including with regard to upper secondary education. We need to investigate and review the grades in upper secondary school as there may be reason to adjust. I am a strong supporter of the need to give more to teacher training. I am concerned that the minister responsible has chosen not to listen to the challenges that we and various organisations have pointed out. No, the truth is that the government lacks the capacity to act and, above all, visions for what the Swedish school needs in the future.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-878	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 21 and 56. Mr President, I would like to In the individual field of education, we convict the government five times. These include school graduations in the church, ten-year primary school, increased teaching time in sports, digital national exams and national digital teacher lift. As a party of wavers, you have to try to keep your tongue right in the mouth. Last year we almost voted through one of these things, but we were not really satisfied with the wording. This year we have had a better dialogue with the Alliance and agreed on what the wording should be like. That is why it is easier to vote for it. Let me be very clear to everyone who listens. We have an extremely large number of good teachers left in the teaching profession. There is a lot of positive things to say about the Swedish school. But the truth is that right now there is a major crisis in the Swedish school, and there is a crisis at many levels. Mr President, I would like to Many have exercised, and we have talked about certain things in the past. However, one thing has been mentioned by everyone without us going into depth, and that is the fundamental error: the school of teachers. I know that we have a new teacher training, and I have great hopes that it will be better than the old teacher training. Mr President, I would like to The admission points for the teacher education at the unmentioned university were 0.1 points out of 2.0 possible on the university test. But the worst thing was that the same year had applicants with high t points on this training 0.7 points. 0.9 is the average of the university test. So it is these people who should take care of our students and be the future of the students. It's not sustainable. Mr President, I would like to There are good examples. In Jönköping you do an aptitude test for teachers early in the education so that you do not have to go too long and incur large CSN debts on an education you are not suitable for. I look with great confidence that it will give a positive result that we can pick out the students who can become really good teachers early on. At one of the higher education institutions we studied, they had only two written exams for four years. The rest was auscultation, group work and presence. I don't want it that way. I want teachers to be tested at every level. It must be written and nationally throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Herein lies the great teacher's lift. What if everyone who attends the teacher training in math and NO does the same test and is tested digitally? Perhaps you can even trade with each other so that it becomes externally correct. Mr President, I would like to This analysis was done in Shanghai. They were the worst in the world 30 years ago. A year and a half ago, the Swedish Democrats presented the Shanghai model, which we have talked about a lot. The model is quite simple. It is about introducing a career service for teachers and providing further training, where part of the further training is compulsory. We cannot, as the OECD felt, kick out a third of the Swedish teaching staff because they are not at the right level. We cannot, as the OECD felt, close 18 out of 28 schools of teaching because they do not have sufficient quality of education. What we need to do is internal training and further development of what exists. That's exactly what Shanghai did. Mr President, I would like to Shanghai is also a long way ahead in technical terms. All my teacher colleagues and others in here who are teachers know that it is time that is lacking. You don't have time for the students and your jobs. I have a suggestion for a simple solution that gives between two and ten hours extra to all teachers... just like Shanghai. In Shanghai, a simple chip has been used to redo all the guns that show pictures on the board to film cameras. It has created a huge computer bank with lessons. This means that you as a teacher can at any time go into the internal document in Shanghai and produce material about, for example, how hair grows. You go into NO, any Google or Youtube document, on the human body, hair and growth. There are 40 lessons that all teachers in Shanghai can watch. The best thing is that with the filming of the lessons, the students who are sick, at home for another reason or leave with the sport, the school choir or something can watch it live at home or watch it afterwards. When you're going to take a test, you can go back and look at it. There is a lot of technology around this that saves Shanghaiers a huge amount of time in preparation work and afterwork because you do it digitally. You've really stepped into the digital world. I know that this technology exists in Sweden, but it is local actors who drive these issues. The problem is that the systems are not compatible with each other. We want to do this nationally. We want to get a national system for all schools throughout Sweden so that all teachers can have access to everyone's good examples. I know there's something called integrity. But the teacher does not have to post the lesson if it does not want to, and it is always the teacher who is filmed, never the students. So you can skip that question. Mr President, I would like to The reason that so many teachers drop out and that so many teachers do not want to return to the teaching profession is the working environment – the psychosocial unhealthy working environment. I choose to quote from an article by Elsa Eriksson, high school teacher in Swedish and psychology, who now chooses to drop out of the school system. She writes: The problem is spelled psychosocial ill-health and is directly related to insecurity created by large, messy groups who do not behave and where everything should be questioned. As well as lack of school leadership. The teacher has no mandate anymore and stands alone, with too many problems to deal with on his own. Students must not feel the consequences for bad behavior, truancy or failing grades. Society has not provided a place for young people who misbehave and allow them to thrive in the school environment instead. Where teachers and other outside staff (to whom it is constantly being saved) take the fall. It's possible to continue for all eternity with madness. Sometimes it feels like leading the lead in a Kalle Duck magazine. We often ask ourselves in the teacher's room the question: What are we really doing? ..................................................... I couldn't have said it much better. I recognize the situation myself, when you have had classes that have been quite difficult, other teacher colleagues who have had difficult classes. It's exactly like this. We lacked the underlying support. It was mentioned earlier more sports at school. Not only does the gym teacher on TV think it's a good thing, but it's also the gym teacher here in the speaker's chair who thinks it's a good thing. If you think a little further and a little bigger: we have the Bunkeflo model to start from, where we know how they worked, and we have it, Mr President, as a very good example of how to do it. It frees up time for the teachers. If you pick up companies, nonprofit associations, the police, the fire department and all kinds of bodies around them and let them have class time with the students, it frees up time for the teacher. No, the teacher can't leave the room. However, you may have time to talk to the individual student, perhaps have time to correct some tests. You can actually have time to participate and participate, and then all of a sudden, Mr President, there will be occupational health care, because then you may be involved in activating yourself two or three times a week. I can't see anything negative about that for the College of Teachers. It will also be a health perspective for the students. It is not so difficult to figure out that a student who has good fitness, is well and thrives with himself will also perform better in the Swedish school. It also connects society, if one makes use of all the bodies that exist. There is a exercise on strategy for rural and archipelago schools, to raise the status of workplace and make them unique. It's a center-party exercise that I think is fantastically good. It's quite right in mind. I was going to take a small example. I don't know if you've been to a school in Roslagen called Singö School. Unfortunately, I read a few weeks ago that the little school is now closed. The little school was exactly the way I want a Swedish school to be. It had curious, interested students. When we enter the schoolyard, me and my colleague, the first thing that happens, Mr President, is that there are 16 – 17 students running through and asking who we are. - Hey, who are you? "We are here to look at your school," I replied.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-909	- No, absolutely not, we won't. "Jippi, said the little blonde weather, gave me a hug and ch skipped off to the sandbox that was obviously outside, because children are like children. There they discovered, in the woods, nearby and around all things, exactly what was there. At this particular school there were two older teachers, Mr President. There were still old teachers who were middle school teachers, secondary teachers and primary school teachers. They were broad-minded, much more than current teachers. The two teachers were able to satisfy the students in every way that they were allowed to do their things. One day an owl was found in the woods. Then it was the theme of that week. One day it had been discovered that the cones fell from the trees. Well, that's what was discovered that week. You could work in a completely different way. Unfortunately, however, that school is now closed. As has been mentioned earlier by my colleagues, the School Commission's report will come on Monday at 2.30 p.m. 14. It is likely to provide many answers. It is true that I recognise as a Swedish democrat many of those answers, because I myself presented them to the press centre up here a year and a half ago, but better late than never. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to talk about school leaders, that we have principals who have a teacher's background. I would like to talk about the school's values, that there should be no cultural or religious special requirements without equivalence. There should be no insulting treatment of students – it is their working environment. Some teaching subjects might benefit greatly from having contact with business, associations, and nonprofit life. I would like to talk about grades and national tests, digitised national tests, a survey where reports become public and easily accessible to teachers and an inventory of the school environment. But, Mr President, that does not allow time, so I intend to raise it in another debate in the future. I'd still like to send one last thought to everyone in here. I want you to think of a teacher, a teacher you had who was really good, such a teacher who is usually called oh shit-teacher, such a teacher as when you walked into the classroom you said, "Oh shit" and then you sat down, because you knew that the person was leader, competent and knowledgeable in his field. Thus they sat down and listened. You were interested, you wanted to know what the teacher had to teach. If we can have more such teachers in the Swedish school system, I am absolutely convinced, Mr President, that we will have a better school.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-916	Mr President, I would like to I have three questions that I thought I might be able to get answers to or at least reflection on. The first concerns pure populism, talking about school graduations in the church. It's okay to have a policy where you try to be a little populist and win some votes. However, I find it rude to give a picture of the fact that school attendance in the church could not be celebrated today. Does Stefan Jakobsson mean that the schools where the students sing The flower time now comes and is in the church at the school close-up violate current legislation? I'd like to know. That's the first thing. The second is: How big is this problem? I do not know if it is on Swedish-democratic sites that this is circulating. But I can tell you that to the Swedish National Agency for Education there are about six people who contact and have questions about secular elements in school – out of a couple of hundred thousand requests taken together. Of the six, there are some who ask a little if you have to be in swimming education, so not even six people feel hesitant – but the legislation needs to be clearly amended. It would be interesting if Stefan Jakobsson could develop it. Then I have a question about how to select so many good teachers before the education has started. I live in Kalmar, quite close to Linnaeus University and have visited it. I know it's a school trying to look at this. We should try all the ways, I think, to get more people to apply for teacher training and get good people to complete the education. But does Stefan Jakobsson really seriously think that before someone starts an education it is possible to say whether the person will be a good teacher or not, a good doctor or not, a good structural engineer or not? My last question, which I may be allowed to pursue later, is about autonomy. At Stefan Jakobsson it almost sounds like he has made the actual structure of the teacher education. Is it really reasonable for us politicians to put up the content of education?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-921	Mr President, I would like to I can start in the order that Lena Hallengren raised the questions. Populism, Mr President, is, in fact, simply explained, that people are being listened to. Obviously it has been an important issue, because when this little thing goes out on Facebook or in other forums it becomes huge. The answer to your question, Lena Hallengren, is: No, we are not breaking the law today. You can celebrate school graduation in the church. But there are principals and other principals who choose to interpret it in a different way. So we want to make the law so clear that there is no reason at all to believe that one must not sing The time of flowers is coming or similar hymns. The answer to question two: Can you tell early if someone becomes a good teacher? I could answer that question very simply: ja. A good mentor who has worked for a long time in school can quickly determine whether you are a good teacher or a bad teacher. You can of course upgrade yourself in terms of leadership and knowledge. But being a teacher, standing in front of students– I know that Lena Hallengren herself has not worked but has just been educated – is show eight hours a day, and it takes a certain personality to do that.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-925	Mr President, I would like to It's no doubt a show– I totally agree with you, Stefan Jakobsson. I just want to say that populism could be interpreted as listening to the people. But you can also interpret it as that you as a politician should take some responsibility and not spread wrong pictures. I hope that everyone sitting in the gallery and everyone listening to the debate heard that it is perfectly okay to celebrate school graduation in the church today, to sing The flower time is coming. Why are there pictures from Stefan Jakobsson and others who say: Now we have made sure that all students can continue singing The flower time is coming – red cabins with white knots. I am extremely provoked by politicians who lie, I would say. The current legislation makes this possible. In addition, the Swedish National Agency for Education has issued recommendations and guidelines that make this not a matter for principals and teachers today. It'll be a problem if you change the school law in a way that makes everyone wonder what's going on-- now the school law changes, what are we going to do? – with the consequence that not all students need to be present. Is that really a reasonable consequence? Wouldn't it be better if we talked about it the way it is? It's all right today. We are engaged in populism. I'll follow up on my second question about autonomy. Are we politicians supposed to talk in detail about how the teacher education is to be conducted, what tests you should have and if you write them at the same time? Or should we allow higher education institutions to devote themselves to developing the education and taking part in the research that exists and all the PhD teachers that exist to make a qualitative teacher education that is also followed and evaluated by UKÄ, which I prefer?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-930	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that it is very interesting to hear that S follows the Swedish Democrats' Facebook flow. It's nice to see that part. Another point raised by Lena Hallengren is that students can already choose not to participate in school graduations. That possibility already exists today. If, for ethical or religious reasons, someone does not want to attend school, that is already possible. But we and the Alliance believe that this has been such a large part of the misunderstandings around Sweden that we want to ensure that school graduations can be celebrated in the church. As far as autonomy is concerned, I think that Lena Hallengren can actually agree with me, even if she is not able to replicate on this. Autonomy has become smaller and smaller for the simple reason that our school results are constantly falling. The national Swedish grades remain at the same level or have increased slightly. But when we compare Sweden internationally, our results dive into all the surveys. This makes us politicians unsure whether they are really capable of dealing with this. Then the result is that you go in and control the details. It's not harder than having kids at home. As long as they behave and everything works, you also let the rules be quite simple. But when we see that it does not work anymore, when we notice that the teachers and schools are producing poorly and when we see that the school results are falling, all these things make us politicians more and more go into detail. I really hope – I think Lena Hallengren agrees with me – that the School Commission will come up with a lot of good solutions. I am the first to sit at the table with all the other parties, put all the politics on the table, clear away all the things that we absolutely cannot agree on and then we vote on what lies in the high that we agree on. That is exactly what Finland did in 1985. No matter who wins elections in the future, this remains. It provides security for the teachers, for the students, for the parents, for the free schools and for all the different units around.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-936	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a large number of motions on the future and development of schools. These include the status of the teaching profession, the digitisation of schools, independent schools, sports and health, and more. As far as school is concerned, we in the Green Party have a vision where every student, regardless of background, has the opportunity to develop. At school, every child should be given the tools to learn, read, write, count, create, collaborate and think freely. The school will be characterized by trustful relationships, and each student will be given influence over his or her study path and school environment. The school should simply be a place where the student's natural desire to learn develops. In order to realise this and move the Swedish school forward, we in the Red-Green Government have provided the school with large funds and announced changes. Mr President, I would like to The Red-Green Government has three main priorities for school. The first is to raise the level of knowledge by offering each student what they need and at an early stage. The second is to invest in the teaching profession. And the third is to achieve an equal and equal school. For these priorities, we have contributed SEK 8.3 billion this year. In order to invest in the teaching profession, we are carrying out many reforms. One of these reforms is an incentive package to raise teachers' salaries. Through SEK 3 billion this year, we can contribute to raising the salaries of many teachers. It is an important step in making the teaching profession more attractive. We do this alongside investment in career services and with investments in better working and development conditions. We continue to invest in broadening and developing teachers' competence through funding of SEK 200 million annually. We invest SEK 500 million annually to make it more attractive to train as a specialist teacher and special educator. We are investing in training for school managers. We do all this to develop the Swedish school. The Government has allocated SEK 2 billion annually to enable the principals to increase the number of employees in primary school. This gives teachers more time for each student. This, in turn, can contribute to raising the results of knowledge and to creating a more equal school. Mr President, I would like to We invest SEK 830 million to contribute to smaller children's groups in preschool. Students' health should be prioritised and receive SEK 200 million. We invest almost SEK 400 million in extra homework help. We invest SEK 150 million in holiday and summer school. We invest SEK 330 million in the renovation of school premises and so on. We all know that good recreation centres can contribute to higher learning outcomes and equal chances of life for all students. At the same time, we know that the staffing density of leisure centres has decreased. To support leisure homes, the government is investing SEK 500 million this year, mainly to increase staff density in leisure homes but also to increase quality in leisure homes in other ways. We have appointed a school commission with the task of making proposals aimed at improving the quality of the Swedish school. Another important issue is the so-called read-write-count guarantee that we have announced. In June last year, the government appointed a special investigator to investigate precisely this. All this we do to ensure that our students get the best support they need and that the Swedish school has a high quality. Mr President, I would like to Some of the issues raised in this report concern the free choice of school. A motion is about investigating the conditions for reviewing the queue system to schools. Another exercise is about forcing all parents to choose a school. A third motion is that the principle of proximity should also apply to independent schools and so on. For us in the Green Party, it has been important that parents have the opportunity to choose a school for their children. It is a reform of freedom of choice that we have supported. In recent years, several critical voices have been raised that the free choice of schools has a reverse, namely that it risks increasing differences between schools. Furthermore, there have been criticisms that the free choice of schools can have a negative impact on the equivalence of Swedish schools. While it is important to safeguard the free choice of school, it is important to be sensitive to the critical views. That is precisely why the School Commission will also look at these issues. It is important that we wait for the Commission's proposals and considerations. Mr President, I would like to Some other issues raised in this report are various motions on independent schools, taking over new schools, controlling schools, etc. The starting point for the Green Party's policy on independent schools is that schools should be run with passion for the education mission and not run for profit and that any surplus that a school may have will be reinvested. In autumn 2015, the Government appointed a special investigator to investigate the conditions for public funding of privately performed welfare services and propose how it should be regulated. It is important that we wait for the investigation's proposals and considerations before going into changes in headship and changes in the conditions of free schools. One of the first tasks of the Red-Green Government was to commission the Swedish National Agency for Education to propose national IT strategies for the school system. The strategies shall contribute to increasing the achievement of the objectives and equivalence. This was something the Alliance had failed to do for eight years. In April this year, the National Agency for Education submitted a proposal for a national strategy for the digitisation of schools. An important part of this is to ensure that staff have adequate digital skills and are provided with training. In view of this and the proposals announced by the Swedish National Agency for Education, a preparatory work is now under way in the Government Office. I think we should wait for it. Mr President, I would like to I was actually going to stop here by asking for the approval of reservation 65. But I cannot help but continue, because a speaker was hypocritical and a speaker lied here in the speaker's chair. A speaker lied and said that it will now be possible to sing in school. It's already allowed to sing in school! It's already possible to sing at graduations. You shouldn't lie. Another speaker hypocritically said that we – oh, oh, oh, oh – are taking 100 million from the grant to special education. There was a moderate Member who did. It was horrified that we were taking EUR 100 million, but it itself reduced the appropriations for the expenditure area by EUR 3.2 billion. Thus, over 100 million people are being horrified, but 3.2 billion less are being spent on training. It's hypocritical. I hope that from the speaker's seat we will conduct a calm conversation based on our starting points rather than lying and hypocritically.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-966	Mr President, I would like to I have to start by addressing a challenge to Mr Amin today. I'm going to challenge him to see if he can handle a change of line without him constantly throwing out that after eight years, it's all the alliance government's fault. It's time after two years to start taking some responsibility for yourself. Now that the Environment Party has the minister responsible, it would be interesting to be informed, given the fact that the committee is today submitting a large and comprehensive report to the Swedish Parliament. It is the biggest report this Parliamentary Session. There are five announcements. Four of these have a very strong focus on knowledge. Sport is about several different things. We know that children who move also produce better results of knowledge. There's something we need to work on. We know that ten-year primary school would be a positive start for our six-year-olds. A digital teacher's lift is important for us to get teachers who make the right use of modern technology. National tests are needed to support learning in a good way and to make it easier for our teachers to spend more time on teaching. There are a number of points against which the Swedish government parties choose to reserve their reservations. Keep the challenge in mind, Jabar Amin! Why do you dismantle and devalue knowledge in this way? Why do you say no to the proposals?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-969	Mr President, I would like to For most of the suggestions that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is talking about, there is a preparatory work going on in the Government Office. There are investigations, and there is a preparatory work going on. It's important not to make haste. That is the main reason for most of the reservations. Preparation work is ongoing, and that work should not be pre-empted. That's the main reason. Then I cannot help answering the question of why I attack the Alliance so often. For eight years you were not able to do so much, and then you have to put up with people criticizing you. Look at the national strategy for digitisation. You had eight years. You didn't deliver anything. Now you come here and fight. You had eight on. If the strategy was so important to you, why didn't you deliver? It was we in the Red-Green Government who started the work. It has moved on to the National Agency for Education, and suggestions have come. There is a preparation work. There will be a national strategy for digitalisation. That is why we want to go another way.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-972	Mr President, I would like to Yes, my friends, we can say that he did not meet the challenge. It was simply not possible to resist the temptation to drive as usual. Somehow, I feel it's not good enough anymore. Above all, it will not be good enough the closer we get to the elections. On point after point, it is doubtful where the Green Party stands. Do you think that sport is wise and sensible? Why is one opposed, and why is it reserved today? There are a number of points. Do you think national tests are good enough for 2022? We believe from our side that it is not good enough. It's way too far ahead. The goal must be to solve this in two years. Moreover, I heard my honourable colleague Jabar Amin say that we are lying and hypocritical. I think we should do a little bit about the climate of debate. Of course, no one has lied. If someone has said that you can sing in school, it may not need commenting. Of course we all know you can sing in school. I don't think anyone deliberately lied. However, we have this to hypocritically talk about. It is not hypocritical to invest 3.8 billion in more teaching in school, to invest 1.2 billion in teacher-led supervision at the teacher's school and to make a number of other initiatives. I will imitate Jabar Amin by holding up in my hand the government's economic spring bill. It says in black and white that you choose to spend 100 million on school premises and not on special education, that is, on the children who are in greatest need of support and help. No matter how Jabar Amin blames the alliance government, he can never swear himself free of it. Swear for once on the question!
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-978	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall says that it must be possible to reverse developments in two years. The Alliance government had eight years. The development did not turn upwards but downwards. Development deteriorated. Less knowledge, less equivalence and worse conditions for Sweden's teachers. That's what you accomplished in eight years. Then you want the Red-Green Government to reverse your failures in a year. It is very strong to demand this. When I debated with your minister about three years ago, he said that eight years is not enough to turn a big boat around. He wanted 20 to 25 years. Now the Moderates say it must be possible to reverse the trend in two years. You must be a little more serious than that.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-981	You must be more serious than that!
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-982	Mr President, I would like to It is a major report we are debating today on the school system. There are an enormous number of motions that we Members have chosen to highlight. Of course, the Center Party supports all its reservations, but for time to come, I would like to endorse only the alliance reservations 8 and 49. The Swedish school faces a large number of challenges. It is known that many of us in the committee have a teaching background. It is clear that when you read these pages, you think about this when you relate to the reality you feel and the reality you see when you visit schools. The shift in the line just before was about what time it takes to reverse the development. You can give so many different pictures of what you turn around. I myself find it difficult for the picture that it would be like an ocean steamer to reverse developments. It is at the individual level that the development is reversed. It is at classroom level that the development is reversed. There are countless examples that with the right way of working it is about that in a time of two years a great deal can be done. After all, we have a relatively optimistic Minister of Education who mentioned 100 days as a time span that could be reversed. And of course you can turn some things around in 100 days. Some things go pretty fast to turn around while others take considerably longer. Let us respect this in the debate when we discuss these issues. It's not a development we should turn around, it's actually what happens every day in every classroom in the meeting between student and student but also a lot between teacher and student, and that's what's so incredibly important. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall described painting in her introduction how one as a teacher sees the light lit in the eyes and understands that now it is something that has long been difficult that has suddenly become easy. Of course it is an important function. We have all visited schools that work with new arrivals, and we know that depending on the way you work, you can also do wonders of different kinds. We have probably all visited schools where you work very language centered in different ways on many different subjects. I won't mention any specific school, but there really is an important competence out there. I look forward to and assume that the government parties will use that expertise when making dissemination conferences of various kinds where the Swedish National Agency for Education highlights the experience that exists. The Center Party adopted at its meeting last autumn a programme on training for jobs. That is why I now chose to support reservation 49, because it is about sustainable development and entrepreneurship, which is an incredibly important part to take into account. I have to say that I was very surprised that the government parties did not respond to this issue in a different way than they did, because the background text states that at the seminar to which we have referred on a couple of occasions, Sweden has highlighted that it is important to follow up the work and then look not only at the activities carried out and regulatory changes but also at the actual effects. That is exactly what the alliance parties are calling for in this reservation – that there is a follow-up of the actual effects of what was done under the alliance government and that I assume the government parties want to continue working on, namely sustainable development and entrepreneurship. Other parts that have been important for the Center Party to lift up are about digital teacher lift, where there is now an announcement, and about conditions for smaller schools. We are all aware that when legislation is adopted, a follow-up may have to be carried out after a couple of years and if some adjustments need to be made. We have pointed out the squareness of the school team that is now in place and that some changes would have to be made to make it easier for smaller schools, not least the archipelago schools and rural schools that are very remote. An important issue that has been raised is about remote education. Also from the Center Party we have highlighted the need for remote teaching and experiments on remote teaching in all relevant subjects, but also that you should look at other parts when it comes to being able to use shared teaching services and so on. We are lifting up the free choice of schools, and I must say that I am tired of the fact that when we talk about free schools and the free choice of schools we are constantly pointing to the negative effects. We are fully aware that there are negative effects, but there are also a great many positive effects. How can we reinforce them? Where there are choices for students, a number of studies show that the results are increasing for all students. When there is a certain form of competition, it is actually good. I get a little perplexed when there are Social Democratic ministers who write on Expressen's debate page that municipalities are not even allowed to decide how many schools are allowed to exist. If it is a problem, if you are going to decide exactly how many schools are going to exist and there also place students, you lose a lot of what is the free choice challenges. Yesterday we were able to read in one of the larger morning newspapers that the government, trade unions and municipalities agreed to continue the transformation work that the alliance parties actually started. I saw no huge differences in the points that Jan Björklund presented when he was Minister of Education together with SKL and the trade unions. These are issues such as nurturing and developing the career reform of first teachers and principals and reducing the administrative burden. However, the desire to reduce the administrative burden of what is highlighted earlier in the debate, which is about the focus on knowledge, worries me. It is not the administrative burden we should lift. We have proposed digitising and facilitating, for example, the correction of national tests. But we also know that the focus on knowledge is extremely important in strengthening quality. Another important point highlighted is that principals should have good conditions for being educational leaders. That's great. We invested in the alliance government in headmaster training, and it is great that these issues continue to be raised. I must turn to Mrs Jabar Amin, Member of the Green Party, who has strongly argued in previous debates that the Alliance Government was heading in the wrong direction in education policy. Then one wonders when one sees an environmental-partisan education minister signing a debate article with basically the same policy as the alliance government. These are not major changes. There seems to be a great deal of consensus in the current government about this. I think that then there must have been a lot of good reforms carried out by the Alliance Government, and then the Minister for Education has thought a lot over these 100 days and a few more days. What is it you have to do? Well, the career reform was actually pretty good. Then there were other major reforms such as the school law and curriculum, which I also believe the Green Party largely supports. Another important issue raised concerns ten-year primary school. Just to take a historical look back, I had a representative, Andreas Carlgren, who was a spokesperson for education policy quite a few years ago. When the preschool class was discussed, he raised the need to make it part of the school, to make elementary school ten years old. I come from Skövde, where a decision was made ten years ago to do elementary school. They were constantly criticized for entering the six - year - olds into elementary school and giving them the right to a school ride and a school lunch and so on. You had to remove it. But hopefully the government listens to the announcement about ten-year primary school so that in Skövde you can eventually regain the ten-year primary school in order to strengthen quality. I would also like to address Lena Hallengren, the representative of the Social Democrats. It is always this issue of tax versus school, and I am also a little tired of that discussion. It is clear that we cannot make unhemous tax cuts, but we also need to take responsibility for economic policy and see that some of these tax cuts have actually benefited growth. After all, it is not the case that the Social Democrats should abolish all the job tax deductions, for example, and raise the tax to previous levels. It is always this question of tax versus school that they somehow disturb each other. I think we're all doing things in different ways. But to constantly make that description, I think, is to simplify the whole discussion way too much. Similarly, to constantly describe the free schools as a problem. It was someone who said earlier in the debate that one must have a passion for education to run school. I believe that the vast majority of school leaders actually do, so let us lift it up and let it guide the debate. There are many important issues in this report. My time is up, so I would like to thank you for the floor.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1009	Mr President, Members of Parliament and audience! Today you have all heard that the President of Chile is here on a state visit. Among other things, she presents a gift to the Swedish parliament. When I heard that the President of Chile was coming to the Swedish Parliament, I came to think of a very important school issue that fits well in today's debate on the school system. Chile, after 30 years of bourgeois reforms in the education system, after 30 years of commercialization of its education policy and system, chose to go another way – while there are parties here today that still want Sweden as the last country in the world to continue experimenting with a market economy and continue to ensure that our common tax money can go to tax havens. When I visited a few months ago a couple of profit-making free schools and also met the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise in connection with these visits, they were concerned. There was concern that we now have an agreement between the Left Party and the government in which we are investigating this issue in order to put an end to the rogue actors in the free school industry. But the fact is that there are also many good players. There are cooperatives that carry out very good activities. There are foundations that have not started their schools because they want to make a profit, but because they simply want to contribute to the development of society. Who, then, benefit from today's system? Of course, those who benefit are friends of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. They are the ones who place their money in Panama and other tax havens. They are the ones who would rather give crisp bread and water than a proper school meal in order to make profits. In this way I understand when Ulrika Carlsson in Skövde goes up and says that she is tired of the talk about tax cuts versus investments in the school. I understand that. Had I been on that side of the political scale, I would have thought so too. I would have defended my friends, too. It is also very funny when the Swedish Democrats make an entire speech without touching the fact that the profits have been reversed. After meetings with the business community, the issue was turned around to support the Alliance to ensure that the venture capitalists are kept in school. After nine years of bourgeois school politics – if we include the extra year, when the Swedish Democrats and the Alliance lowered the government's budget – we are now heading in another direction. We are heading in another direction where there are investments in outdoor environments for schoolyards. We are heading in another direction where more staff are being invested in leisure homes. We are heading in another direction where 10 left-wing billions, as we call them, in an agreement between the Left Party and the Government, will go out to all Swedish municipalities and county councils. What, then, can this money be used for? What can this money, which comes to the municipalities and which is the biggest investment in Swedish welfare for decades, be used for? Well, of course they can be used to invest more in newly arrived students and to hire more study supervisors. They can be invested in student health at school and in hiring more curators, as well as in other important areas of school. When I talk to teachers and principals, I still get worried. I am, of course, pleased with the enthusiasm we face and that we have so many competent teachers and principals in the country who are involved in the daily development of Swedish schools and ensure that our children grow up to be the citizens of society they will become according to the curriculum. But I am concerned about the reality they are in – a reality where principals need to be economic leaders rather than educational leaders. It is a reality where teachers cannot make the necessary efforts, for example for children with special needs, because of the very economic system that prevails in Swedish schools today. This is something that all parties need to think about. What can we do to change the system so that the teaching profession can be a teacher and so that principals, who are the educational leaders of the business, slipper be financial officials? The free choice of school is something that the Left Party will spend a lot of time on this year. We will continue to push forward on this issue. There, too, I heard that there were alliance members who were tired of the issue of free school elections. If you are tired of what research says, of what the municipalities say and of what teachers and principals say on this issue, I do not know whether it is particularly appropriate for you to stand in Parliament and make a speech on this very subject. Time and again, we have received reports showing that the segregation of residents that already exists because of a labour market and an economic policy that has not worked for many years now is exacerbated by the free choice of school. Yet the alliance parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, choose to maintain that this will not change. Note also that it is about changing. No one in this House has talked about removing the free choice of school. The parties that have criticised the free choice of schools have talked about changing it. It is about ensuring that parents do not have to choose between a better or a worse school. The ambition is that all schools throughout the country should be good schools. When I met some teachers at Tensta High School, they were just talking about the free choice of school. After some time with a tough reality in school and declining results, that school will now be closed down, just like the school in Rosengård and schools in some other areas around the country. Somewhere the teachers thought that Swedish school politics seemed to be about closing down schools as soon as they had problems, and instead driving the students to some new school. How, then, can we solve the problems and ensure that the results are raised? How can you ensure that knowledge becomes the focus, rather than the grade? Can we really do that by having a policy of simply choosing a better or worse school, or a policy of closing down all schools that do not work? I don't believe in that way. I believe in a path where we simply follow the curriculum that everyone here has set out on and that all students have the right to an equivalent education no matter where they are in the country. The issue of ten-year primary school has been raised, as have pre-school classes. The Left Party has a policy of saying that we want a compulsory preschool class but not a ten-year primary school. The reason for this is, among other things, that preschool class in Sweden has worked very well as a transition between preschool and primary school. We believe that it is important to look at this fact. Changing for one's own sake will not lead to better schooling for the students. I am going to go into an issue that has been touched on by, among others, Lena Hallengren and a couple of bourgeois Members before, including the Swedish Democrats. It is a question of school leaving. The fact that during this year's most important school debate is being held in this House and says that it is not possible to celebrate the end of the church or that it is not possible to sing The flower time will show how serious the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats are on school issues. We see declining results and the staff on their knees. We see a system that doesn't work, with profit-making actors. We see a free choice of school that leads to segregation. Then some representatives in this House choose to talk instead about what one can sing and not and in which room one should celebrate school graduations. Let us also be honest and say that this issue is properly investigated. When the Church of Sweden tells the alliance parties that this is a non-issue, one might think that it should have some kind of weight, but despite this, the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats now choose to proceed with the question, which is a pity. The Left Party has also raised motions on norm criticism and feminism in school. We know that today's teaching materials and school books unfortunately retain the stereotypical gender roles that exist in society. We know that they stick to the stereotyped white middle-aged men who are mostly those described in the history books. Something needs to be done. We need to ensure that the teaching materials in school are quality marked in order to simply get a norm-critical perspective, because these books will help shape our children. Although it is a non-issue for some who will never be subjected to any norm-breaking discrimination, it is a major issue for many in this country: for LGBT families and star families, for people with foreign backgrounds and for women, for that matter, which is often not even mentioned in the history books of Swedish schools. The Left Party believes that all parties should join forces to ensure that we get an investigation into quality labelling of school books. More and more young girls feel worse at school and feel that they are being mistreated by the boys at school. What can we do to overcome the problems? Of course, more effort is needed on student health, but that is once the problem has occurred. By making sure that we have norm criticism in our school books, but also by ensuring that the girls learn feminist self-defense and simply get involved in strengthening each other and standing up when it comes to such events, I think we can get a long way forward. The municipalities that have set it up have had very good results. I am not going to go through all the other issues on which the Left Party has been exercising. I'm just going to ask for the approval of reservation nine before I forget it. I would like to conclude by saying that although there are major problems within Swedish schools, it is quite wrong that Swedish schools are in crisis. I believe that it is Swedish school policy that has been in crisis for many years, which has meant that we have a system that is in crisis. That doesn't mean our children aren't doing the right thing. That doesn't mean we have bad teachers. This means that we as politicians must take responsibility here in the Swedish Parliament to give our teachers and vice-chancellors the means and resources to develop their work. When I was elected to this House, I was told that the Education Committee usually tries to agree across party boundaries in order to have a long-term perspective so that things do not change over mandates. And I have to say that I am rather disappointed that some parties would rather engage in the exercise of power to convict the government rather than follow what the research and profession says. I hope that in the future Swedish school will be preserved from bourgeois haftsverk.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1036	Mr President, I would like to There are few things that make me so distressed as the description of all these independent schools that do such a fantastic job, to hear the description from left-wing party after left-wing party that shows that one has not in the least understood what the independent schools mean to the school in Sweden. For me, it is gratifying to note that when you ask the Swedish people, the fairly clear answer is that the independent school system and the free school elections are here to stay. The Left Party won't be able to help that. That is my strong hope. It is, of course, about changing the free choice of school, and we can agree on that, but not in the way the Left Party talks about, because you are not talking about changing the free choice of school. You're talking about restricting free choice of school, and then it's no longer a free choice of school. From the alliance parties we have been open all the way to finding ways to develop free school elections. We believe that free and developed school elections are something that can lead us to counteract segregation, because none of us want to see that the possibility of choosing a school exists for a few. And that is not the case today; that is the opportunity for everyone. But a lack of information, a lack of language and many other shortcomings mean that you don't even know when you come to Sweden that you have the right to choose a school. Are you prepared, Daniel Riazat, to say that the free choice of school should be mandatory for all children throughout Sweden, but that we should also ensure that everyone gets the right to information?
i-PF54jPcaacTnBe6eGh8UUW	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for the question! It is interesting that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and the Moderates are upset that left party after left party wants our common tax resources to go where they are intended, namely to the children, to the teachers, to those who work in welfare and to all of us. Given that 80 per cent of Sweden's population think the Left Party on this issue, it would be better if the Moderates concentrated on finding out why this is so, why people are upset that their salaries are 2 500 SEK lower at Academedia-owned schools, why people are upset that they do not have access to school libraries or special rooms at profit-making free schools. It tries to give a picture that the Left Party is in some way against all free schools and that we have talked about removing the free choice of schools as a whole. Anyone can understand by now that it's not true. The Left Party is involved in supporting actors such as cooperatives, as I mentioned, and foundations that are serious. And they are the ones who are disadvantaged by today's system when your friends with their accounts in Panama get to drain the Swedish school on resources. When that day comes when we get rid of the commercial system around the school, I can volunteer to pack all their bags – these greedy venture capitalists who take our tax money for their own profit.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1044	Mr President, I would like to I hear this continuing wailing about friends of the Moderates. I will make it clear once and for all that the friends of the Moderates are those who take a clear responsibility for the students' knowledge development in whatever school it may be, whether it is municipal or independent. To make any insinuations or accusations about something else is completely wrong. We Moderates are very clear that independent schools and municipal schools should be run responsibly and in the long term. Sometimes I think it would be very useful if Daniel Riazat and his left-wing party also looked at how many municipal schools are failing their knowledge mission. When you go with such things as that there is a grade inflation – so do representatives of the government, let me add – you can go in and look at the statistics that exist. There is a much more boring link between national exams and the grades you put at high school in municipal schools than you do in independent schools. Just go inside and look at the results. The statistics are as clear as any, and it can be seen directly if you choose to do so. I also note that it seems very important to talk about school graduations in the church and note that one of your left-wing comrades, the chairman of the Education Committee, has chosen to devote most of his interventions to debating just school graduations. It is interesting from the big school challenges that I share your view that we should actually discuss instead.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1047	Mr President, I would like to The question of school graduations was addressed to Lena Hallengren, who is chairman of the Education Committee, and you will have to take it with you. I think I have explained quite clearly what I think on this issue. And I find it regrettable that you are raising this issue, as you have been doing for several months now, even though we had meetings with a number of consultation bodies which were all very clear about what they think. For the sake of viewers, I can say that that is not what the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats think. When it comes to your friends, nothing is hidden away anymore. In the past, it may not have been possible to come into the public eye as the best friends of venture capitalists. Today it is a fact and a reality that people know. I can mention, among other things, your former welfare advisor, who is now the CEO of a venture capital company. We have a number of other presidents of various venture capital companies who are currently making huge profits. Or why not take Filippa Reinfeldt who first sold out health centres to some welfare actors and then work for the same company? When it comes to the issue of independent schools and the free choice of schools, it is not the Left Party that needs to explain why the system does not work properly, but it is all those who have ensured that we have this system and that we keep this system, whether it is through cooperation with a party that does not stand for democratic values. It is the Moderates and Camilla Waltersson Grönvall who have to answer that question.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1053	Mr President, I would like to I felt the need to discuss it because I felt apostrophated. I would obviously be tired of certain things and should not then be standing in the speaker's chair debating. This surprised me a little. Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the reasoning of Daniel Riazats and the fact that he does not simplify but rather deepens the discussion. I am not thinking of the line shift, but of the main speech, which I thought was much more thorough. I reacted to a few things. Daniel Riazat mentions foundations and cooperatives as important actors. Are there no public limited companies that run good free schools? It's like you're just dismissing it straight off. So to the preschool class. I have full respect for the fact that you can see differently on the transition. I mentioned Skövde municipality, which has chosen to say that you start in primary school when you start in preschool class. When the profession governs how to start school, it's about creating a good transition. I've seen investigations that say the preschool class was hanging in the middle. It didn't turn out well. It can be a basis for saying that you want a compulsory preschool class, which should either belong to primary school or pre-school – or how the Left Party is now reasoning on this. I think the free choice of school is extremely positive. We had a seminar where Ebba Östlin from Botkyrka told us how active school choices work in Botkyrka. Here segregation is counteracted by the active school elections. I guess the Left Party's been looking at it a lot, too.
i-BL1hQthM6AZ8hKTGkEpDpQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulrika, for the questions. With regard to the issue of limited liability companies, the Left Party was one of the first parties to propose that a form of public limited liability company that already exists in the legislation could be used for this type of activity. It is not possible to collect huge profits here, but to recover capital and reinvest any remaining profits. If we all agree that our tax money should go to our children, teachers and so on, it is not an art for all parties to support the proposal to have limited companies that do not make profits but operate because they want to contribute to social development. We've been thinking a lot about the preschool class. We believe that it is important that the preschool class is compulsory, and our position today is that it should be a form of school of its own. We want to wait and see what the investigations that are going on are saying on these issues. As far as the free choice of school is concerned, there are, of course, examples where things have gone well. There is always one in every country in every school system. But the question is whether we can start from isolated cases or whether we should start from research. It must be illogical even for those who are passionate about the school on the alliance side to have the argument that one should be able to choose a better school. Why should there be better schools? Why should we not have equivalence throughout the country? That is an important issue.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1063	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat claims that we should not listen to research. It disappoints me a little. The Institute for Labour Market Policy Evaluation may not have produced a research report, but it has nevertheless produced a solid report which has seen that the results of knowledge in all schools increased as a consequence of free schools and free choice of schools. It's important to lift up. I get a little worried when Daniel Riazat dismisses the free choice of school by saying that positive examples always exist but that they can't be looked at. I would like there to be a willingness to use the positive examples as a basis for making changes and improvements, and that, as in a previous change of line, we do not talk about restricting the free choice of school, but instead we can strengthen it. I do not recognize the image of us saying that one should be able to choose between good and bad schools. I believe that every party believes that it chooses between different schools that are good at different things and have different directions. The ideal is that the school should be equal, not the same. It may have advanced training courses. There are Rosengårdnära schools that have great challenges and which work fantastically well with cutting-edge educations, so this opportunity really exists. I do not recognise that we would stand for the closure of schools that are not good, but we look at how to strengthen schools in so-called exclusion areas. It is important that we have a respectful discussion and debate, although we have different paths to the goal. The goal is the same: to have high quality in all schools so that no one can go to a bad school.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1068	Mr President, I would like to I have also taken note of the IFAU report. There are a number of other research reports that the OECD is involved in producing, and it is clear how municipalisation has had bad effects in school and that Swedish school will not be able to be equivalent to the free choice system we have today. These reports say so literally. It's unserious not to take that into account. We can have our ideological ideas about how things should be, but at the same time school policy must be based on research, the opinion of the profession, etcetera. Then it becomes clear that the free choice of school has not worked. Of course it works for some people. It obviously works for the independent actors who want to come in and get more students. However, for those pupils in the suburbs and some parts of the countryside who do not have a certain socio-economic background, free school choices do not work, but according to reports this leads to increased segregation. If you are against increased segregation, you should also be against the free choice of school as it stands today. With regard to the free school debate, it is important to say that the Left Party also criticises the problems we see in municipal schools. It's a fact. In my speech in the speaker's chair, I said that there are problems in Swedish school systems at all. But no one can say that it has helped to have independent schools, free school choices etc. All of this has exacerbated the situation of the municipal school.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1073	Mr President, I would like to I was a little surprised that there were no more lines in this debate, that instead the Social Democrats applauded. What Daniel Riazat from the Left Party just delivered was, after all, a sulfurous speech with ideological support very far to the left, but it was therefore applauded by the Social Democracy. I hope that this is not a sign that the policy of the Left Party will be pursued. The post was not just about the view of school elections, not just the view of who should be allowed to run independent schools, but it was an attack on quite a lot of what I thought there was a broad consensus about regarding Swedish school and how Swedish school should be governed. Mr President, I would like to It is no coincidence that the Liberals are committed to school politics and school. It is something of a core task to think about how man can grow, how through knowledge man can gain more power over his own life and gain a freer life. It is no coincidence that, as a liberal, we often think about how we can continue to develop Swedish school politics and Swedish school, make sure that every person gets more knowledge and a chance to learn more, and think about how to encourage more students to want to learn more but also get more people to want to get involved in school and become teachers. Nor is it a coincidence that liberals are considering how we can further increase ambition in Swedish school politics and that we now have thoughts both as a party but also together with the Alliance on how to develop Swedish school politics. Nor is it any coincidence that what is now happening in this matter and in Swedish school politics in general is that the Alliance and the Riksdag are running the government ahead of them. After all, we have a government that was very poorly prepared, in all areas, but this is perhaps particularly evident in the field of education. The end of the reform was something that was said in the election movement, and it is probably the only electoral promise that this government has fulfilled in the field of education. The opposition is now running the government ahead of it. In this matter alone, we have five announcements to advance the positions in this area. Time and again, it's like this. The handful of proposals that have, after all, come from the government in the field of school policy are those prepared by the Alliance Government. There are a few more things in the desk drawer of Fridolin's room. It is about a complete study with suggestions on how to further provide teachers with tools to maintain study and order in the classroom. It's forgotten. But the proposals that have been put forward so far are largely based on what the Alliance did in its last years. I thought, Mr President, in my speech, that, above all, two things in the report that I think are particularly important, two reforms that I would like to see Sweden be able to implement on a rather broad political basis and which I believe would be important in raising the results of knowledge. It's no coincidence I'll choose ten-year primary school. I think that such a reform would put a clear focus on the importance of starting early, raising awareness ambitions as early as possible, allowing young people as early as possible to meet committed people who want to help them learn how to crack the reading code or find fun ways to solve mathematical riddles, to meet as early as possible with such high expectations that you can thus succeed in breaking social heritage. We know that nothing is more important if you want to break social heritage than to have high knowledge expectations as early as possible in school, to have an early start. Mr President, I would like to It is important to address as early as possible the problems that individual pupils may have, that through the change that a ten-year primary school would involve linking young people to the rights contained in the School Act to receive special support when they are at risk of falling behind. Few things would better lift people's knowledge and break social segregation and social heritage than if we could push down support and knowledge ambitions earlier than we are doing today. The government has in this way been rather provocative towards the Riksdag. We in Parliament have repeatedly said that we want a ten-year primary school. Here we are again making an announcement that the government will return with a ten-year primary school and make the preschool class as part of this. Parliament is saying it again. But it seems to the government parties once again that they intend to ignore the mission of the parliamentary majority. I find this provocative and boring, and I think it is above all a way of showing that you do not believe in the idea of breaking social heritage by investing in knowledge as early as possible. Mr President, I would like to It's not a coincidence either that I'm lifting up government heads. I see that we need to think about the headship of the school for a number of reasons, partly because we need a clearer governance of the school, as the OECD and many others have pointed out, partly because we see how the municipalisation actually posed quite major problems for Swedish schools. We have seen how the focus on knowledge moved to something else, and we have seen how the teaching profession's status has fallen, how teachers did not get any wage development, how they did not receive further training, how it could not be a free academic profession where they wondered how to get young people to learn more, but became more of municipal administrators. Many municipalities are excellent, have a knowledge focus and help teachers aim for the educational mission, but other municipalities cannot do it. It is not just large or small, not just rural or urban, but there are good schools and good municipalities, bad schools and bad municipalities around the country. But if we are to raise Swedish school results in the long term, one must probably realise that this power is not shared among 290 different municipalities. During its eight years, the Alliance government introduced a number of things that further meant that the state steers the school but also that the state in various ways counteracts the negative consequences of municipalisation, for example through teacher lift and further education efforts, by having clearer regulations and clear curricula. I believe, Mr President, that a modern state headship would be an important step towards greater equivalence, greater focus on knowledge and increased status both for teachers and for the Vice-Chancellor. Mr President, I would like to It is no coincidence that liberals are involved in school politics. I am only in favour of reservation 8 but, of course, I support all the Liberals' motions and reservations in this report.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1088	Mr President, I would like to I am amazed at the lack of insight from the Liberals, that after eight years of government and eight years at the Ministry of Education, come here and say that the school is not working! Mr President, I would like to Christer Nylander comes from a party, the Liberals, which ruled the Ministry of Education for eight years and was responsible for the Swedish school. After eight years – according to the Swedish National Agency for Education, the OECD, the teachers' associations and all independent measurements – there are three things: lower knowledge results, poorer conditions for Swedish teachers and lower equivalence. It is the result of the eight years of government and school politics of the Liberals and the other alliance parties. With this in my luggage, I think it would be in place with a little more insight that everything was not right, that things were going the wrong way. Is that insight there? That is my question to the Liberals' Christer Nylander.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1091	Mr President, I would like to I'll have to ask Jabar Amin to be a little more specific. Can he mention three reforms which he believes the Alliance Government was wrong, three reforms which the current Red-Green Government, with an environmental party as Minister of Education, will tear up? What the government has done so far is very little. A handful of proposals have been put on Parliament's table, all of which have been prepared by the Alliance Government. Together with us, we are considering how to meet the major integration challenge that Swedish schools are now facing – not by making any suggestions themselves, but by listening to the alliance parties. Can Jabar Amin mention three reforms that the alliance government carried out that he believes this government should tear up? So far, I have heard nothing more concrete than that Jabar Amin complains only about the eight years that have been.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1093	Mr President, I would like to The statement made by the National Board of Education, as the OECD does, by the teachers' associations and as the whole of Sweden's teaching staff does, is not accusations, but it is a statement that your policy led the wrong way. It is not the number of proposals that is most important. It's not that you run fast that's the most important thing. If you run fast but at wrong, you won't get there. You have to deliver proposals with quality. There must be a policy that leads to better knowledge outcomes, to better conditions for Sweden's teachers and to greater equivalence. That is what we are laying the foundations for now. We will have these years. We've begun. Let's start by betting on the school. We're giving bigger funding than ever. Once again, my question to Christer Nylander is: Would it not be appropriate to have some insight that the important thing is not to run fast in the wrong direction but to deliver policies that really help to develop Sweden's schools and make sure that we get to the levels that we once were and were proud of?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1097	Mr President, I would like to It will be very difficult to have a serious debate with Jabar Amin when he says that we are running fast at wrong but cannot give a single example of a step that we have taken and which has been wrong. On the contrary, he says that he will manage these steps and think about how to go even faster eventually. It will be very difficult to understand what insight Jabar Amin has taken into account when he has looked at Swedish school when he does not mention a single example of what we did wrong and that he wants to tear up. In fact, he says that we did everything wrong and ran in the wrong direction. It is very strange to discuss with Jabar Amin what he really means when he says that we did a lot of wrong and that everyone thinks we did completely wrong when he himself cannot give examples of one thing that we did wrong. What this government is saying is that you listen to the Alliance. The handful of proposals put forward as proposals are made on the basis of the Alliance's investigations and proposals. The proposals put forward in the area of integration are made after listening to the alliance parties. The draft budgets that are now being highlighted are merely an extension of those introduced by the alliance parties. How can Jabar Amin stand here and say that we should have an understanding that we were wrong when, during two lines, he cannot give a single example of things he would like to tear up?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1100	Mr President, I would like to Soon it's time for school children from Norrland to Skåne to sing the classic summer psalms – The flower time is coming and In this lovely summer time. Memories from school are awakened with us older, longing for the endless summer vacation awakened in the younger ones. Hopefully schoolchildren, teachers, school staff and parents will be able to enjoy the songs in the future without being distracted by the debate that year after year has been held whether Gud may be sung or whether the conclusion can be held in church. After years of constant confusion and debate about what applies to celebrate school graduations in churches, there is now a majority in the Education Committee that wants to clarify the rules. Not infrequently have critics of school graduations carried out in churches referred to traditions being excluded. They claim to be on the side of cultural and religious minorities, claiming that people of faith other than the Christian feel violated or neglected by going to a church. Not only is this wrong, but it also shows that they greatly underestimate people. For more than a decade and a half, the state and the church have separated. On the other hand, we have customs and traditions that have been built up in our country throughout the ages. Many of them are rooted in Christian faith and tradition. Meeting these is not about exclusion, rather the opposite. By getting to know traditions that belong to the common frame of reference in our country, inclusion in our society can rather increase. Meeting new traditions does not by definition mean having to delete one's own. Mr President, I would like to For us Christian Democrats, it has long been obvious that we need new legislation in this area that is in line with current practice. In the vast majority of places, schools already solve this in the best possible way today through talks between church representatives and school representatives. However, in cases of confusion, the majority's proposal for change will clarify what applies, and at the same time it will make school staff feel that they are not doing anything that is contrary to school law. Clarity and effectiveness are therefore key words. I will briefly summarise the meaning. Confesional elements should be allowed to occur in public schools, in non-educational education, on certain occasions in connection with the celebration of school graduations and other traditional festivals. Of course, education in schools should be characterised by objectivity and objectivity. To allow confessional elements on an occasional basis is not to jeopardise it. But of course, no student should be forced to participate in school graduations in the church. It is a bit of a paradox that last week we celebrated the 70th anniversary of our Head of State with worship, prayers, hymn singing and blessing, and then number two in our state, namely our own President, urged us to praise Gud with drum and cymbal in the church, while, in this House, we must make it clear that we can be allowed to sing all the verses of our most beloved hymns, even if the word Gud is present and we are allowed to do so in the church. The new law will be consistent with the practice already in place in schools, with the difference that school leaders and teachers know that they have legal support for what they already do. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight the value of more adults in school, partly because teachers are allowed to devote themselves to what they are trained for, namely education, and partly because children and young people today have a great need for support in various situations that cannot be directly attributed to the teaching situation itself. More adults at school can provide relief in the classrooms, and they can be in corridors and in the school yard during breaks. Civil society could also be allowed to contribute more to creating a safer school environment. There are many different concepts for this. There is no obstacle to schools employing so-called teachers' assistants today. We Christian Democrats have long put forward the concept of class grandfather. What is important is that the school finds a model that relieves teachers, so that they can focus on being teachers, while maintaining a safe environment in school for all students. Mr President, I would like to At present, the school law focuses on the principal and principal in terms of responsibility for good work environment and safety, but not on pupils and guardians. We Christian Democrats believe that it needs to be made clear what responsibility the pupils, and the guardians, have for ensuring that the school rules of conduct are respected. The Work Environment Act also applies to the school. It states that employers and employees should work together to achieve a good working environment. The Work Environment Act focuses mainly on the physical work environment and measures to reduce the risks of accidents in, for example, crafts, sports and chemistry education or in connection with internships. In order to clarify the responsibility of students for the physical environment, those who deliberately sabotage the environment should be involved in restoring what has been damaged. The school law clarifies the student's right to safety, study and not to be subjected to offensive treatment. It is a legal requirement for the Vice-Chancellor to decide on rules of conduct for each school, and they will be prepared with the participation of the students. Those rules should describe the sanctions to be imposed on the pupil who infringes them. When a student repeatedly and seriously violates the rules of law, it is essential that the school and the guardian work together to solve the problems. For too long the starting point has been that every problem concerning children and young people should be solved by the school and the teachers. Parents are responsible for their children even during school hours, and this should be made clear in a clearer way by the Education Act. Mr President, I would like to Good leadership at a school is crucial for success. We Christian Democrats believe that the headmaster's training should be opened up to people who have not yet received a headmaster's position. We want to see an academic education in pedagogical leadership that corresponds to today's Vice-Chancellor's education and the Vice-Chancellor's lift. Even those who do not intend to become principal but, for example, first teachers should be able to complete their teacher training with such an education. It should not be a requirement to be a teacher in order to attend this training or to be hired as a principal. It can be positive if managers from other activities go to Vice-Chancellor's positions after having first completed the education in pedagogical leadership. However, it is important that the vice-chancellor has an education at an academic level that corresponds to the staff they are appointed to lead have. In order to develop pedagogical leadership, those who have received a position as vice-chancellor also have a continued need for supervision. It is therefore of great importance that principals are offered regular supervision. Mr President, I would like to At last, we have got somewhere in terms of digitisation and external correction of national tests. Already in the Christian Democrats' 2013 school report, we stated that national examiners would correct the national tests in order to create a more equal and less subjective assessment. In addition, the results of the national tests should be more consistent with the grades given to students – this is to reduce the rate inflation. We are now looking forward to rapid decisions because an investigation into the issue is already complete. Mr President, I would like to The teaching methods used in schools must have better support in research and evaluation before they are introduced. It is a major problem that new pedagogical methods and trends are quickly implemented into the business – methods that do not always have support in science and proven experience. Now there are many good thoughts and ideas from the School Research Institute that are worth taking very seriously. It is a requirement such as building up a professional faculty for teacher and school management training and associated doctoral studies and research resources. In order to have a better school, we need to ensure that teachers have a basic solid research base. In particular, practical research is important in this context. Of course, I support the reservations of all the Christian Democrats and the Alliance, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 8 and 43.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1119	Mr President, I would like to To say that Swedish schools face major challenges is hardly an exaggeration. We need to reverse the development of results on several subjects. We need to work with early support for pupils both in the lower stages of comprehensive school and throughout upper secondary school. We need to strengthen the position of the teaching profession, attractiveness and professionalism. Above all, we need to secure our principals' and school leaders' time, skills and opportunities to act as educational leaders – and then I forgot the pre-school managers, who are also leaders. We also need to work more with order and study at school. After having visited many schools and municipalities and discussed with teachers, principals and school politicians, my view is that the problems and challenges are now taken very seriously in Swedish schools. After the PISA debate, there is a clearer focus on results, early interventions, skills development and a developed teacher role. There is also a lot of positive happening right now in the country's schools. The Riksdag and the Government have helped with important initiatives and decisions, such as a large basic school lift and more resources to hire more teachers, opportunities to work in smaller groups and classes, and early interventions and support. Within the initiative Collaboration for best schools, agreements are now being made to support schools with low results and tough conditions, as well as municipalities that receive many newly arrived students in their schools. We have a school with many merits, and it is important to mention them as well. Swedish students enjoy school, and as someone has mentioned many amazing teachers in our school. In some subjects Swedish students still perform very well in international comparisons. Pupils' participation and respect for children and young people is high in Swedish school compared to many other countries. We also have a long tradition, as explicitly stated in our curricula, of developing students' critical questioning and independence. These are forces in Swedish school, and I think we should protect them. But the task will be to tackle the challenges of Swedish schools while safeguarding the strengths we can see in the Swedish education system. A challenge for us politicians here, and also for politicians far out in many municipalities, is to find the balance between what is important to govern politically and what can be decided and managed by teachers and school leaders themselves in their professional roles in school. It is a question of finding that balance, and I am not sure that all the proposals we are dealing with in this report are satisfactory in terms of the balance role. I would also like to comment on some of the announcements proposed in the report. I think it is commendable – and I really mean it – that the opposition is now highlighting issues about the digitisation of schools. This is an urgent and important issue. However, the fact that we have not made it further with the digitisation of the Swedish school and the Swedish education system is hardly due to the current government. Rather, the reason should be sought in the lack of initiative and action that the Alliance Government demonstrated for eight years – and in the direct disinterest, I would say, as the former Minister of Education showed on these issues. The focus for him was probably more on a return to an old school and caeder education than on stimulating the development of digital learning and pedagogy. What initiatives has the current government taken with regard to digitalisation and education? Some are mentioned in our reservation. In 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop a national IT strategy and to develop national school development programmes. It also included proposals for developing skills in schools and IT as an educational and administrative tool. In April this year, the National Agency for Education proposed a national strategy for the digitisation of schools, where competence development of staff is a key element and where it also believes that there must be further training efforts. This autumn, the Swedish National Agency for Education will offer several new skills development initiatives in the field of school development. There are four initiatives focusing on digitalisation and IT for school staff, digital narrative, critical and secure network usage, leading and learning in technology-tight classrooms and leading school development processes with a focus on digitalisation. An important effort to raise digital skills at school has finally begun, and we should let that work get started. The committee's proposal to now investigate the issue of introducing a national digital teacher's lift does not therefore feel like the most current effort at the moment, but it is about ensuring that we can launch the IT strategy that is now to be discussed and referred to and then submitted to the Riksdag. I would like to say something about the digital external correction of national tests, but speaking time has gone a little too far. I may refer to our reservation text on that matter. In conclusion, I would like to say that we support all our reservations and, like Lena Hallengren, I support reservation 65.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1132	Mr President, I would like to I can't wait. Of course I'm curious about digital correction and give the opportunity for a little more time to develop it. But I actually asked for a reply when Håkan Bergman said that a digital teacher lift could not have any function, if I understood it correctly. That surprises me very much. I am sure that Håkan Bergman, who was in the Riksdag also last term of office, will remember when Minister Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt launched a digital teacher lift and raised that issue. That is something that the previous government also worked on in different ways. Then there is always reason to be self-critical and so on. But this is gonna be hard to understand. Håkan Bergman mentions the four different points, which I do not see any reason to be critical of when it comes to the digital strategy that has been developed from the Swedish National Agency for Education, which are important parts. But then I wonder why one dismisses a digital teacher's lift in this way – it is still the teachers who should work with those parts. Rather, I think that we should welcome the initiative for a digital teacher's lift and see how it would make it possible to make the four different points a reality. I want Håkan Bergman a little more basic about how to make a workshop out of the four points if you don't see that you also need to invest in a digital teacher's lift. We have role models from both what this government was working on and what the previous government was working on in the so-called teacher's lift, which has been very positive. I was a little surprised that Håkan Bergman just dismisses it this way. I would like further clarification.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1137	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, and thank you for the opportunity to develop my reasoning! It was a misconception. I am not dismissing a national teacher's lift or national efforts to develop teachers on these issues. Neither do we in our reservation. What we say in our reservation is that it may not be the effort that we need to investigate right now, when the Swedish National Agency for Education has presented its mission on 180 pages with both a vision and various proposals for strategies and concrete measures that we now need to do. To say then that we think we should start an investigation about a national teacher's lift is perhaps not what feels most relevant right now. If we want to achieve digitalization seriously in the Swedish school, we obviously need to work with skills development efforts on several different levels. The Swedish National Agency for Education points out the principals as a very strategic group to lead a change work in the Swedish school in that direction. I think that's good. But now we finally have an IT strategy presented, which is about school. Let us discuss what efforts in it need to be developed and implemented to achieve this goal! That is more than Jan Björklund managed to perform during his eight years at the Ministry of Education. That's what I meant. He was very keen to put the question to municipalities and to principals. But the state would not play a very active role in it.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1142	Mr President, I would like to I note that Håkan Bergman saves digital correction to the second line. You'll have a chance to develop it more there. When it comes to the digital teacher lift, it is about being able to use a model. There are criticisms of this strategy. There have actually been some criticisms that I think you listen carefully to, because no one thinks that anything is ever completely perfect. There are always opportunities to develop in different ways. Some of the criticism of the strategy that has been developed is that there is not so much workshop. There'll be a lot of meetings. You talk about principals and others who are somehow together. I have full respect for that. But being able to use a concept such as a teacher's lift, which has been developed, would make it possible to get a bigger dividend at school very quickly, so that the digital development can also be boosted. We should both admit that there are fantastic schools that also go ahead and develop working methods. At the same time, however, you are distressed when you visit other schools that use it rather in a rather old - fashioned way. Now there is the opportunity for Håkan Bergman to further develop a part about the digital correction. But I would also like to hear something about what is linked to the criticism that there is not so much workshop but that there are meetings. It has at some point been called some snow mosh. I don't want to say it. But it would have to have a greater impact.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1147	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for further questions. Let's see how much I can do. The National Agency for Education presented its report on 4 April. The Education Committee has not yet received any information on how it has thought or so. The preparation has probably not got started on any deeper level in the Government Office, I think. I think there may be reasons for criticism and comments. They are to be welcomed. After all, we are finally going to have an IT strategy for schools that can lead to practical results in schools. I believe that this must include skills development, lifting or other forms. But that's not what we say no to. We say no to starting a new investigation into a national teacher's lift right now. That's what we say no to. But we will have skills development efforts and a continued discussion of the IT strategy. With regard to the second issue of digital and external correction of national tests, that is exactly what I think Lena Hallengren mentioned. A fairly large and comprehensive study has recently been presented – we have also received information in the Education Committee – highlighting the issues of digitisation of national tests and the possibility of a more equivalent assessment through external correction. It is proposed that a trial be carried out. We will see what the consultation bodies say about this and what they finally land in. But the argument that digitalization of tests should take place gradually and be given enough time before it is allowed to be fully expanded, we share with the investigator. We think we should be able to take this in stages.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1152	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by expressing my support for the Alliance's reservations 8 and 49. Of course, we also support the other proposals contained in the report. The UbU14 report by the Committee on Education is indeed a broad document, and today we have discussed everything from school graduations to teacher competence development. All in all, however, today, especially with the announcements that the Alliance has received, we are taking a few small steps towards shaping a better school with a more knowledge focus for the future. Mr President, I would like to Few things we take a stand on in this House have such a significant impact on people's lives as the decisions we make on education. It is with a good education for everyone that we create life chances for people. That is how we give people the opportunity to make their own decisions, stand on their own feet and join in shaping the society in which they will live in the future. The promise and the agreements that we as a society make with each other, between individuals and between states and citizens, to give every child a good education and education are important. Unfortunately, this is a promise that politics has had a hard time keeping its share of. For over 30 years we have seen falling knowledge results in Sweden, as a result of a school that has not prioritised knowledge but which has been sent, above all, by politics on, to a mixed extent, honorable assignments that have steered the school away from what should be its goal. The Alliance government partly started a new journey for Sweden during our years, where the school would return to a clear focus: to convey knowledge and skills. Major investment in teacher training, new teacher training and increased teaching time are some important steps that were taken along the way and that the Riksdag now obviously wants to see more of – this thanks to tough priorities when, despite a historical financial crisis, we were able to increase funding for school, maintain teacher density and also give every teacher a full extra monthly salary thanks to a job tax deduction. However, we still have a lot to do to ensure that every student gets the start of life that he deserves. That is what we should prioritise instead of embarking on a hot hunt on the hundreds of thousands of students who have chosen to go to free schools. What we need is not whine about it; what we need is more education, better teachers and a clearer focus on knowledge. Mr President, I would like to One of the areas we are going to discuss here today is the importance of sport and health in school. I, and many with me, surely have very mixed memories of school sports, changing rooms and more and less well-chosen competitions for twelve - year - olds. The truth is that over the last 20 years, the amount of sport in Swedish school has decreased. There may be different personal views about this. You might think that sports is a nice or less pleasant feature of a school day. But there are strong reasons to believe that it actually has an impact also on the school results we see during the same time. Experience around the world, including Swedish experiences from the Bunkeflo project but not only from there, clearly shows how physical activity not only contributes to a healthy lifestyle but also contributes to improved school outcomes. With the right use of physical activity, we improve the conditions for learning. The classrooms become calmer, and the students become more receptive to teaching. It is already up to the school today to ensure that pupils have access to physical activity on a daily basis. In reality, however, we know that it is something that is used to a limited extent and not quite to the extent that would be possible. In my opinion and in the opinion of my party friends, it is not the Parliament's task to regulate in detail how school management and teachers choose to put together their teaching. But it is the task of the Riksdag to set the framework for the mission and for the priorities. It is therefore gratifying that tomorrow – because we have taken up the debate today – Parliament will be able to take a stand to extend school sports from 500 to 600 hours. It is an increase of 20%, and it is a first step in giving schools an opportunity and a tool to work actively with sport to raise school outcomes. That, my friends, is what I think should be the focus of education policy. You may find it sad that not everyone chooses to put their energy and focus on higher school scores, because it is there, my friends, that we are most needed.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1165	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to listen to Erik Bengtzboe when he talked about how the results have fallen over the past 30 years and also blamed us on the other side for always whining at free schools etcetera. I would like to start with the first part. Of the last four curriculums issued in Sweden, the Moderates have been involved in developing three. If there are shortcomings in these curricula, then the Moderates must also be involved in taking on their responsibilities instead of passing it on to the others who have even had views on these curricula. When it comes to independent actors and free schools, it no longer holds that the Moderates and alliance parties only come up with untruths about what we on the red-green side think and think. None of our representatives – neither from the Left Party, which has been clear for years on this issue and has gone one step further, nor from the government parties in the Education Committee – have ever spoken ill of all independent actors in general. We have never said in this House that all independent schools are bad and do not work. What we have been talking about is a system that does not work, when the sale of clothing is treated as a school, that is, commercialisation. We do not believe that there should be the same principles for selling clothes, or for that matter soft ice cream, as for conducting school activities. Do the Moderates think it's weird? Yeah, apparently. Then you may simply think so, but the fact is that we believe that the tax money should go to what it is intended for.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1169	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Daniel Riazat, for the questions! First of all, we have the question of who is actually responsible for where Swedish school is today and who should reasonably take responsibility for Swedish school going in the right direction. The honest answer is that we must all take that responsibility. The Left Party has historically very little guilt in how things have developed in actual decisions because they have never ever been allowed to be part of a government and never ever had any real influence over the Ministry of Education – the exception via their proxies in very left-wing Social Democrats from different times. It is absolutely true that the Moderates have been involved in many of the curricula that have been developed. Some things have turned out well. Everything in Swedish school is not bad. But some things don't turn out the way you expect them to. Does that mean giving up? Does that mean giving up your plans to make the school better? No, everyone's job as elected representatives is to learn from experience, look ahead and think about what we need to change and what we need to do better. The Moderates will never ever give up that will. We will never ever give up the fight to ensure that all Swedish school students get a good schooling. Sometimes it's going to be wrong. It will be partly and partially our fault. It will partly be the fault of other parties. We intend to correct those errors regardless of who is causing the errors. That's taking responsibility. When we come to free schools, Mr President, I do not accuse Daniel Riazat and the Left Party of saying that they always hate all free schools. That is quite correct. They don't. But the result of their policy is an erosion of free school elections. It will be a erosion of the system of free schools that leads back to uniformity, which leads to a society where politicians get more power, where people get less power and where we see less knowledge development. We don't want to go there.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1174	Mr President, I would like to I note that Erik Bengtzboe continues to blame for some rhetorical tricks. The curriculum is an example, but there are also a number of other reforms that have been implemented in the 1990s. There we in the Left Party themselves can admit that we have changed our minds on the issue of the municipalisation of the Swedish school. When there is a report after a report and research results after research results that show that the free choice of schools increases segregation, which shows that independent actors have not led to all schools having raised their level of knowledge, it is perhaps time that the Moderates began to listen to it. Not only should rhetorical tricks in some way be used to try to get away with why they actually support all these greedy actors made up of venture capital companies and other large companies. It would be nice if the Moderates could stand up for the real reason. This is not about any kind of diversity. It is not about ensuring that all students have access to as good schools as possible. It is simply that the Moderates believe that some companies should be allowed to govern politics instead of the other way round. That's not how I look at politics. When it comes to free school elections, it's clear. There are many actors, including the Director General of the National Agency for Education. If the Moderates believe that the Director-General of the National Agency for Education is wrong, just like any other body, they must also be clearly informed. The free choice of school leads to greater segregation, but it is obviously better for the profit-making players because they can continue to grab themselves.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1178	Mr President, I would like to I note that in the past there was a political representative in the speaker's chair who talked about ideological lock-up when it comes to free schools. I note that the present left-wing majority is trying to attack an ideological blow by the Swedish people in the case of free schools. You are entitled to your opinion, but you cannot attribute to me what I think about free schools and why. Free schools are important to offer diversity, but above all to move power from you and me to Swedish school students and Swedish parents. They're the ones who know best what suits them. It is those who know best which schools their children should go to or they themselves should go to. This is not something that should be unnecessarily dissected and controlled by pen strokes from a town hall or parliament. It is about whether the power should be in parliamentary elections or whether the power should lie with people – nothing else. I also note that the Swedish National Agency for Education has been critical and had a lot of opinions about school segregation. I also note that the Swedish National Agency for Education has backed up from what was said about free schools. It has been found that there is no longer a segregation due to free schools but that there is a risk. We all have to deal with this risk, but we do not see any progress in that direction. IFAU, the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, has noted that free schools have led to better results in free schools, for Swedish school pupils and in municipal schools. The teachers' unions have found that they lead to increased wages. We can also say that they have more satisfied employees than the municipal schools, and they also have more satisfied pupils. It is quite correct that there is an enforced segregation due to free schools. It depends on what the free school system looks like because not everyone gets the chance to take part in it. By ensuring that everyone gets the chance to take part of it, we can counteract segregation. Instead, what the Left Party is proposing is that we remove that means, that power, from the citizens and from politics. What the Left Party does in reality is to stand by the hands completely without the possibility of counteracting segregation.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1183	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling, like the other members of the alliance, for the approval of reservations 8 and 49. We naturally support the other reservations expressed by the Moderates in the report. Much has been said in the debate on the school system, and I will focus here at the end on two of the announcements decided by a majority in the Committee on Education and Training, which I hope will go through in this House too. Both are about the digitalization of the school. The National Agency for Education recently presented a report on the use of IT and IT skills in schools. Access to IT equipment has increased significantly since 2012, when a corresponding study was last carried out. In comprehensive school, three computers or tablets are currently available per student, and in upper secondary school, the relationship is one to one. More students also have access to a personal computer or tablet. This is about 25 per cent of comprehensive school pupils. The use of IT is also increasing. Both teachers and students in the Swedish National Agency for Education's survey report that they use IT to a greater extent than 2012. However, the use is usually limited to searching for information, writing texts and making presentations. It could mean so much more; developing pedagogy and giving students better opportunities to pass school. However, this presupposes that teachers have the skills needed to use the technology's conditions. The alliance government's graduation goals for a newer teacher education include goals for digital competence. Something needs to be followed up. I'm not so sure that all universities live up to those degree goals. The Swedish National Agency for Education's survey also shows that teachers have a great need for competence development. For example, 30 per cent of teachers in comprehensive school feel that they need competence development in using an e-mail program. Mr President, I would like to The principals have invested heavily in infrastructure. Now the state needs to support with skills development. That is why it is important that the training effort involved in one announcement is now in place. We cannot wait for the whole digital strategy to be dealt with before the initiative takes place. The second announcement is about digital national tests with external correction. It is about making use of the technology itself, better legal certainty for students and not least less administration for teachers. The recent study on national tests proposes the introduction of digital national tests from 2022. It's a long way from here. There's technology. In fact, there are Swedish companies that have developed applications that are currently used to conduct national tests in, for example, parts of Australia. It's hard to understand what's going to take so long. That is why the announcement of digital national tests with external corrections is a mark against the government to urgently come up with a proposal on this issue. It is extremely important to reduce the workload of teachers.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1190	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about the conditions for jobs, entrepreneurship and growth throughout the country. The Swedish economy is dependent both on companies in traditional industries and on innovative growth companies. Our companies and entrepreneurs have lifted Sweden even at a time when other countries are in crisis. The globalised world with increasing competitive pressure and the need for more and growing companies are three reasons that motivate Sweden to need a favourable business environment that encourages entrepreneurship and innovation. It is vital that rules are kept under constant review and improved. Mr President, I would like to In total, up to 100 000 small businesses with half a million employees are facing a generational shift by 2020. One in three small businesses in industry is facing a change of ownership when the old owners retire. It can be difficult to find new owners. Many small businesses are threatened with closure when no one wants or can take over. In the spring of 2014, the Alliance government appointed a special investigator to review and improve the effectiveness of the rules on taxation in the case of transfers of ownership of small companies. Unfortunately, the current government has amended the investigation's directive with a clear risk of worsening the tax situation of the owners and companies. In fact, the government has changed the whole purpose of the investigation. Instead of developing existing rules to promote jobs, entrepreneurship and growth, it seems that the government wants to make it more difficult for job creators. Mr President, I would like to There is reason to review the few company rules in order to focus once again on improved conditions for jobs, growth and entrepreneurship. The original mission of the investigation must therefore be safeguarded. That is also what we in the Alliance are proposing. Mr President, I would like to We need more jobs in rural areas and sustainable development throughout the country. Forests and jobs in the forest play a crucial role here. A major advantage of Swedish forestry policy has been the overarching principles on which the regulations are based. These regulations have been stable and long-term in many respects. The forest is one of the most important natural resources we have in Sweden. Forests account for about 120 billion in export value, and the sub-contracted forest industry employs around 175 000 people. It is therefore self-evident that the forestry industry, like the rest of industry, needs better conditions and not worse. Forests are not only important for the Swedish economy. Forests as a renewable resource are important to address climate problems and to achieve sustainable social development. Forests, like all green industries, play a crucial role in the green transition and in local, national and global growth. Mr President, I would like to The State investigation Simplified tax rules (SOU 2014:68) suggested that, among other things, forest accounts and forest damage accounts should be phased out. However, it is still of great importance for the individual forest owner to be able to use their forest in a reasonable manner and thus take advantage of the financial dividend they have been involved in building up for several decades. Deteriorating the possibility of economic balance between the years would be devastating for forest owners' commitment and the conservation work they are doing. The said study also proposes the introduction of an environmentally-friendly forestry deduction. Today's forestry deduction rules for rationalisation acquisitions are proposed to be general. This is expected to lead to higher growth as fellings can continue to occur in a more forest-economic way, as the younger part of the harvested mature forest can normally be expected to remain in the most intensive period of growth rather than being harvested for tax reasons. In addition to simplification, the proposal also has a positive impact on the environmental and production objectives of forestry policy. The rapid implementation of this proposal would be beneficial for both environmental protection and forestry and the export-intensive forest industry. The Center Party believes that the proposal can be decoupled from the rest of the investigation proposal. It could therefore be treated with priority. Mr President, I would like to Today's debate concerns, among other things, business taxation and rules. Let me make a historic exposé on the implementation of alliance reforms in this area: We introduced investor deductions that make it more attractive for individuals to invest in small and new businesses. We reduced employers' contributions, both in general and targeted. We created rules that prevent aggressive tax planning through so-called interest rate spin. We abolished the audit obligation for the smallest companies and thereby reduced the administrative burden. We created a door inside, which means that entrepreneurs only need to provide data once to one place. Mr President, I would like to Policy should make it easier to start and run a business and to hire. I therefore support the Alliance's reservation 5.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1211	Mr President, I would like to It is always nice to go up as number two, as the previous speaker has said basically what you were going to say. You just get another angle. I shall begin with the formality – that I am in favour of reservations 5 and 6. Of course, I am in favour of reservation 4 but I do not support it. On other points, I support the proposal contained in the report. Let me start with the forest account, which is an important part. As Per Åsling said, an investigation has suggested that it be removed. I have discussed the issue, on the one hand in a written question and on the other in an interpellation debate with the Minister for Finance, and I still think that I receive fairly positive answers from the Ministry of Finance. It is clear that the Minister for Finance is well aware of the very special conditions that exist for the forest. It is normally harvested after 70-80 years – perhaps a little longer north and shorter south. That's gonna be very special. We have also seen a few times in connection with storms or forest fires that you have to go in and make special solutions to do this over time. Therefore, the forest account is definitely something that we think should remain – in any case that function so that you can spread the income. I think that Per Åsling has demonstrated in a good way what can happen. Of course, we do not want a system in which there will be rather small huts, frequent transport with harvesters and forwarders and perhaps worse reforestation as the huts become smaller if we try to spread the income in this way for tax reasons. If there is anything we need, it is rational forestry. It accounts for SEK 120 – 130 billion of our export revenue, so it is extremely important from an economic point of view. Many of us in this House are certainly politically agreed that forests can also contribute to more and better transformation. We talk a lot about the green atom, and there are many products on the way that hopefully can have their roots in the forest. We take a very positive view of this. As far as this report is concerned, Mr President, I think that a lot better than a bill we received: the state and capital. Then there may be some chills at my place. If growth is to be achieved, we agree that labour and capital are needed. But what you have started to talk about more and more is that you also need knowledge capital. That is why this is a very important report. We are fully behind changes in ownership and the like to get companies to continue to operate and to do so in such a way that capital can continue to work to create jobs. Creating jobs is just what is needed, and it is often entrepreneurs who do so. I was amused to ask a question to the Parliamentary Investigation Service about what it looks like about those who are currently supported by social benefits and benefits. It can be noted that in Sweden 2015 it is 14.3 per cent that stands outside. This makes it quite clear to us that we need more jobs. We need more entrepreneurs, and we need companies that can expand. To take the top and bottom it looks most favorable in Stockholm with 10.9 percent. In Gävleborg it looks as darkest with 8.7 percent. Outsiders are to be combated in different ways, and the best way is for entrepreneurs to offer jobs. Then it is important, as we have pointed out in our reservations – both in alliance format and in moderate version – about generation shifts in small-time companies. Here it is important that you do not go the wrong way and, for example, as Per Åsling was on, gives additional directives to an investigation that makes things more difficult. Something that surprises me quite often is the view of entrepreneurs. It is rarely in my opinion that the debate sees entrepreneurs as job creators. Rather, you start to think about whether you should review tax rules and other things. It's very strange. When the Tax Agency made its tax error map many years ago, what was done with an electrician who was employed but worked black? Well, in the statistics, he became an entrepreneur. It is often a he, but of course it can also be a she. It is interesting how the state can make that interpretation. Then why did they interpret it that way? Well, it was argued that since he was working black, he should have been an entrepreneur, because it was not an employment relationship! So the statistics were completely distorted in that sense. It is high time that we now see this in a completely different way, so that entrepreneurs can have a good soil to grow in. Then there will always be companies that misbehave. Then we'll have order and find out how we handle it. It will be companies that perish because they did not have a good enough business idea or because the one you had gone out of time. But it is important that new ones are started all the time. Investment savings accounts are mentioned in the report. It has actually become very good, although the tax has now gone up a little. It is a very good form of savings that the alliance government launched during its time. If I have received correct information, the fund assets in investment savings accounts are now up to SEK 203 billion. It is of course very good that we then have a system where you can have savings and pay taxes directly. We can compare it with pension savings, with which many of us were engaged. There they had to make deductions, but it was a deferred tax. You had to deduct when you saved, and then you had to estimate when you retired. I think it is basically good if one can not put the tax on the future. Mr President, I would like to I was not going to try to delay, because I know that my fellow debater, who just came in, has looked at his children, who are here because the debate has been delayed. With regard to babysitting, we may perhaps take a shorter dialogue after your speech. Welcome to the debate!
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1229	Mr President, I would like to The report dealing with general motions on companies, capital and real estate has been so lengthy that we have had time to familiarise ourselves with the government's draft budget for the spring and the reforms announced in connection with it. According to Magdalena Andersson and the government, Sweden is doing great. The Prime Minister has stated in the Financial Times that it is surreal that citizens worry when everything is on the right track with the nation. Clearly, many in this house have no sense of crisis. The country's production apparatus is being converted into even more welfare and care production, more social care and more benefit volumes. One can well say that the overwhelming part of economic policy is to try to solve the problems because hundreds of thousands of people have come to our country, which we really have neither room nor money for. Then I have only mentioned the economic part of the matter. The Swedish democrats have long warned against the challenges that the policy has brought. At best, the government and other parties have turned a deaf ear. At worst, you've thrown out various kinds of invectives. Facts-based or constructive criticism there is no place for in the lost political everyday life in Sweden. For this reason, I hope that our proposals will be taken into account in the Spring Budget Movement and that wise and necessary reforms will be supported for the good of our country. Without a solution to migration and integration issues, there is no room for other necessary reforms for schools, health care, rural areas, industry and many other areas. If we now deal only with the matters dealt with by the committee, we can see that tax increases have been introduced and that more increases are to be expected. The government combs every corner to find resources to finance mass immigration. We have seen tax increases on petrol and diesel. The RUT and ROT systems are being eroded. All of this leads to increased costs and reduced employment in those sectors that could otherwise be involved in increasing the employment rate of unskilled workers. The increase in the tax burden on nuclear power is another factor that weakens the industry and, in the long term, threatens to paralyse important parts of the energy-intensive export industry for Sweden. Here the government takes great risks with Sweden's young and old as an effort in a cynical game about ineffective principle measures in the environmental field. All of this makes it more expensive to hire, less profitable to work, more expensive to travel and more expensive to live in the country, to name but a few examples. This is a serious development for Sweden, as it means that job development in both industry and public administration is worse than it would otherwise have been. Through the loan financing of the majority of the government's extreme investment in migration, Sweden's long-term development opportunities are deteriorating. Reducing infrastructure efforts is hitting industry, small businesses and rural areas hard, which are at risk of worse development than otherwise. Mr President, I would like to However, the government and also opposition parties have finally been forced to acknowledge their previous mistakes and miscalculations in the area of migration. Only about 25 per cent of the working asylum migrants have a job that means self-support after 8 years in Sweden. This finding of at least 30 years of irresponsible migration policy should cause both the government and the representatives of the alliance parties to blush with shame. However, the government has been forced to take measures that we have been proposing for years, even if it is too little and too late. The Swedish Democrats want to help create the conditions necessary for Sweden to stand strong. Industry, innovation and knowledge are key concepts for Swedish industrial success. Technological progress is extremely important for sustainable and sustainable growth. A growing service sector is good, but we must not lose any more of our basic industry, which is a prerequisite for growth. We have historically had good access to cheap raw materials, cheap energy and well-trained labour. For many rural areas, the basic industry is vital for employment. We are concerned that it will continue to be. We want to see a freer business environment, less bureaucratic hassle. It is a matter of course to work towards improving the conditions of companies. Mr President, I would like to Growing small businesses account for a large proportion of all new jobs created in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats have an offensive strategy to make it easier for small businesses to expand by reducing their costs. The so-called general wage contribution represents one third of the employer's contribution and is an additional cost to work that is very difficult for small businesses. We want to eliminate completely the general salary contribution for the first nine employees in all companies. This means that a total of 300 000 small businesses do not have to pay the payroll fee, which will provide financial scope for the replacement of many small businesses. Companies with a higher total wage sum pay a general wage contribution only on those parts that exceed the ceiling amount. Real estate is a significant part of material assets when investing in new businesses. Excessive taxation of industrial property can contribute to the absence of establishment or to the relocation of existing companies abroad. Conversely, favourable taxation on industrial properties can contribute to large job creation efforts. In order to reduce the thresholds, the Swedish Democrats want to abolish the property tax on industrial units. Our policy creates favourable tax benefits for server halls, which are now the highest in the Nordic countries in terms of energy taxation. They should be equated with industry's energy-intensive players in general and thus have the opportunity to contribute to increased employment. We have a reservation that addresses the important role of the forest account. The forest owner, who is often a whole family, should be able to distribute the income from felling over a longer period. If the forest account is closed, the forest industry risks not obtaining enough raw material. We are therefore opposed to the abolition of the forest account and are pleased to note that several parties now want to do so. I would like to say a few words about the investor deduction that we are advocating in order to increase the availability of venture capital. It is a good tool for directing venture capital to smaller companies that would otherwise be less interesting. The Swedish Democrats intend to further develop this deduction and therefore want to explore the possibility for legal persons to make use of this possibility, to allow the public to make use of the deduction for investments in venture capital funds that invest in small businesses and to increase the level of the deduction. We have a reservation on housing taxation, as we advocate the possibility of allocating untaxed funds to future maintenance. We want to combat rent increases and propose the introduction of tax-free maintenance funds. This could increase the activities in the area of repair and maintenance, which is a heavily under-used sector in today's Sweden. There is so much to do in order for Sweden to take a new turn in all policy areas. But are those responsible within the government really prepared to make necessary but uncomfortable decisions? Or is it like the French monarchy, which for decades knew that it was undermining its own economy but could not change? History then cast forth a upheaval in which dominant classes or rulers were deposed and replaced with others. Who knows? I support reservations 1, 10 and 11.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1245	Mr President, I would like to Historically in Sweden, many people from Greece, Finland and Yugoslavia worked in the base industry and the Walloons who helped us with knowledge and made us successful. From the mid-1900s to the early 1920s, about 11⁄2 million Swedes travelled to the United States. Can we not agree that it is a rather multicultural country? I would therefore like to hear what the Swedish Democrats think of entrepreneurship and development, for example, when they put it in connection with a multi-culture. In my opinion – there is also research that shows it – it can be a bit problematic to start a business if it is people who have many different opinions, but once you get such a company started it is far superior to a company where everyone thinks the same. Mr President, I would like to There is great evidence that multiculturalism works. Why would it not work in Sweden?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1249	Mr President, I would like to If anyone has the right to speak on this issue, it is actually me, because I am both an immigrant and a self-employed person and have been so my whole life. I am not talking about the people who create a new life in Sweden and contribute to the general with their knowledge and work, but I am talking about when immigration gets so large proportions that it cannot be handled. Right now we are in that situation, because last year we received 160 000 new residents. We don't know much about these people. They have crossed our borders without identification and control, and we do not know how high or low they have in their education and not whether they intend to adapt and take their place in our society. I am very grateful for the people who have helped build up Sweden and improve Sweden. But it's the exceptions that confirm the rule. I think that those who behave, who show what they can and do their best, should be self-evident in society. We should not have to thank them so much for that, but it is obvious that you do so when you are received and get the confidence to live in a nice, democratic society that Sweden is. That's what I think.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1251	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I got a really good answer to my question about precisely multiculturalism. We all agree that we have had problems and that we have got a high number, and therefore the Swedish Parliament has made decisions and taken measures. We can agree on that. But what I want to come back to is that I think it is very important that we fight for the normally free movement across borders of both people and capital. I am convinced that multicultural society is far superior. I think that both Sweden and the USA prove that if you take in influences and dare to take on the new and not just get stuck in the old it is far superior. Then perhaps it is often the case that we in Sweden find it very difficult to understand that a trained foreign doctor is as good as a Swedish trained doctor. One can wonder why this is so. Perhaps it is that we have grown up in a country where we have been divided that it is only what we do that is good. But I always take the example: Where did you change your heart the first time? Yes, it was in South Africa. I believe that we need to be better at validating and really taking advantage of the knowledge that comes in completely free of charge across our borders. For someone who was born in Sweden and will have education, practice and other things it may take 30 years before you are in production. I think we have made the biggest mistake, because we have completely failed with integration. Let us help each other with it, because work will be good for everyone. And that's what we need for everyone to have a good welfare. But answer my question: Is multicultural societies good?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1256	Mr President, I would like to Multicultural societies are good when you have fundamental values that are equal. If you think too different and have too different backgrounds it doesn't work. We can see that there are conflicts, wars and misery in many places in the world. I do not believe in that kind of multicultural culture where you have different values and can live out your own cultural expression, but you should have a base with similar values. The fact that immigrants do not enter society often does not have a racist background, but the employer wants to receive the maximum dividend for the salary paid by the employer to its employees. Then you usually look a little more closely at who can meet the requirements that you set. Just because immigrants are expelled, it is interpreted as being racist, but I do not believe that. I myself have seen that Swedish employers and Swedes in general are very friendly, democratic and incredibly tolerant people. But profitability is a very strong whip, and we must subject ourselves to the conditions for business to go round. That is why there is often a little more thought when you deviate too much from the standards that we are used to. But if our immigrants themselves feel that they want to contribute and make an effort to educate themselves and learn the language, I think they have a good place in our society. I agree.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1259	Mr President, I would like to Hey, everybody! Today we are talking about important issues. We are talking about the taxation of companies, capital and property. Recently, we have seen how entrepreneurial and aggressive tax planning has come to light more and more. This is an important issue because it means that large sums of money are being lost to our welfare. According to OECD figures, we are talking about up to SEK 2 000 billion on a global scale. As we know, the latest known task for Sweden is 46 billion. Just a few days ago, Investor revealed that in 2013 alone, over SEK 2.4 billion had been withheld from taxation through several of its companies. SVT wrote that 29 of Sweden's largest companies withheld a total of SEK 16 billion from taxation through interest rates only in 2013. This is what the IRS is now beating down on. It is therefore a systematic manipulation of the intentions of the tax system to enrich the already wealthy. Basically, it is a theft of our common resources and a transfer of wealth that should not be legal and that is now being tried. We cannot expect anything from corporate morality, but of course it is morally reprehensible. For the Social Democracy it is probably so embarrassing that their former Chief of Staff and Deputy Secretary Stefan Stern today is Investor's man and defends these arrangements. It is perhaps even more embarrassing that little has happened and that it is extremely slow to close all the holes in the interest rate spin. My call to the government is: make sure to plug them in and do it quickly! Luxleaks, Offshoreleaks, Swissleaks are now followed by Panama Papers. It is constantly presented new evidence of how inventively leading Swedish companies and venture capital companies with the help of Luxembourg, Panama, tax havens and active tax planning can blow us taxpayers and Sweden at billions and how the very richest with the help of our Swedish banks have actively hidden their income from taxation. In Iceland, 20,000 Icelanders gathered outside everything when it was discovered that Iceland's Prime Minister had hidden money in tax havens, and he was forced to resign. In Sweden, the major popular protests should be directed at Investors, SEB's and Nordea's headquarters – all within a few minutes of the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to Tax issues are crucial not only for Swedish welfare but also for all countries in the world and have sailed up as one of the most important issues on the EU agenda. The OECD has been working on these issues for a long time. The ongoing BEPS project is one of the most important efforts to prevent aggressive tax planning. But these are inadequate measures, and basically no binding commitments. Sweden must become a more powerful player here, not least when it comes to the issue of improved country-by-country reporting, which also needs to be made public. In addition, Sweden should take the lead and even now set up a study to review whether the provisions of the Income Tax Act on a permanent establishment are strong enough to actually cover those companies that operate to a large extent in Sweden. Today, many companies in, for example, the haulage and construction industries escape taxes and maintain both social dumping and unfair competition. There is no reason here to wait for the OECD. That is why I support the Left Party's Amendment No 3. Of course, I support our second reservation, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 3. Mr President, I would like to In the years of bourgeois government, all sorts of taxes were lowered at a mad pace that drained our welfare and insurance systems in multibillion dollars. Paying got pensioners, sick and unemployed doing. The wealth tax amounted to 6 billion when it was abolished in 2007. The latest reduction in the de facto already low corporation tax cost the State 16 billion. The reduction in property tax cost an additional 16 billion. Only these three examples of insane tax sink policies cost Sweden SEK 38 billion annually. It is money that is needed in our common welfare. Anyone who has followed the modern bourgeoisie has nothing to be surprised about. But for me it is surprising that the so-called red-green government – how much green remains to be seen, not least on the issue of Vattenfall and lignite – is not prepared to fight for a tax system that leads to greater equality and redistribution. The government is too lax in its stance when it comes to issues of corporate taxation, capital and real estate. Of course, I am pleased that we left-wing parties have brought the government to tax the excess profits of the banks. After all, however, it is only a matter of moderate 4 billion – while the four major banks had a profit of nearly 100 billion. But where is the government in the fight to increase corporate tax so that companies can bear their share? Where is the government in the battle to reintroduce the wealth tax so that the super-rich can contribute? Where is the government in the battle to reintroduce property tax? Why have you bought a fundamentally bourgeois view of tax policy? How can you accept that Sweden, with the words of economist Stefan de Vylder, has become the tax havens of the rich? Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants Sweden to introduce a wealth tax and an inheritance and gift tax. It is taxes that exist in most countries and that are also reasonable. This applies not least to inheritance and gift taxes, which have a very clear distribution profile. The inheritance tax must, of course, be supplemented by a gift tax in order to prevent transfers of wealth for tax planning purposes. Of course, there is a need to regulate the way in which spouses and cohabiting couples are excluded and to ensure that business transfers work between generations. Equally obvious is a generous basic deduction that means that the inheritance tax is not paid from the first crown. But the need for it is obvious. Another crucial issue in the future will be to find ways to ensure that property tax or tax, as it is called today, goes from being regressive to becoming progressive. This means that the property tax needs to be increased. When the old property tax was redeployed, it meant a tax reduction of SEK 57 000 per year for an average villa in Danderyd with an average rateable value. This is a distribution policy that we left-wing parties cannot accept. Let me also touch on the issue of interest rebates. Clearly, it is a deduction that fuels a housing bubble that is about to burst. It is equally clear that it is one of the most unfair deductions that exists and mainly benefits the rich part of the population. The richest 10% have 20 times more interest deductions than the poorest 10%. In essence, the interest rebates subsidise inflated prices of villas and residences in large cities, which means that rural taxpayers subsidise the prize rally in Stockholm. Another measure of injustice: 85 percent of interest deductions go to the richer half of all households. In other words, the interest rebate distributes money from low-income earners to those with high income and from rural areas to Stockholm. The Left Party has a very clear policy of stepping down interest rebates, and I see in the report that the Center Party and even individual Moderates have such a will. Since before, the Liberals and the Green Party have announced that interest rebates must be reduced. We are now lacking a clear voice and direction from the Social Democracy in order to address the problem of interest rebates. My advice is: the trunta in the M oderates, and make sure that we get an agreement that steps down the interest rebates so that we avoid the problems that are in there! Mr President, I would like to Wherever corporate tax is discussed, it is today part of a race to the bottom. We can see how it costs treasuries around the world enormous amounts without giving the positive effects that are hotly spoken for. Even before the latest reduction in corporate tax to 22%, the OECD considered it to be close to the OECD average and lower than ten of our main partners, including Germany and Norway. According to a survey by the Swedish Tax Agency, the real corporation tax after all deductions was as low as 13.4 per cent. This is unsustainable in the long term, and the Left Party is looking forward to a red-green government that dares to tackle this issue seriously and ensure that any possibility of deduction is blocked.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1285	Mr President, I would like to I've heard a few comments. Was there any tax that would remain at the current level? I had a lot to write. The corporate tax will be increased, and then there was the wealth tax, inheritance tax, gift tax and military tax. I'm going to ask you a question right away so we can have some examples to discuss. It may be a little low, but which country is best for North Korea or South Korea? One country has chosen your model, Daniel Sestrajcic, while the other has chosen the moderate model. Where are people best off? Unfortunately, if you raise taxes, it is not at all certain that you will get the money. The wealth tax is a great example of that. That was 5 to 6 billion. That money has now begun to come in, thanks to the alliance government and that we removed the wealth tax. It should, of course, be combined with the information agreements. Most of the information agreements have come about during the time of the alliance government, quite frankly, with the help of the OECD and the United States, when the United States got tired of draining tax money. But we've done a lot of things. The birth tax is another example. It's there, but it doesn't give any money. Well, it gives 5 billion, but probably the research would bring in as much or more without it, because people would work more. Corporate tax will certainly mean that our companies move abroad in different ways and ensure that they pay lower corporate tax. My question is: does the Left Party believe that it will have any negative consequences at all to raise all these taxes?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1291	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulf Berg, for taking the line and wanting to discuss. It is well beneath you, however, to take the example of North Korea, because you know very well that it is not a front country or a model that neither I nor the Left Party defend. Sweden is compared to North Korea, a country that is far better, of course. You're asking some important questions about our tax policy. After having experienced eight bourgeois years where almost every tax has been reduced and where welfare has been drained on all the resources needed to build a strong welfare, to be able to pay the preschool teacher, to pay the nurse and so on, we need to raise a number of taxes. The big difference between you and me is that I believe in equality policy and believe in redistributive taxes, and I think you have to squeeze together the gaps that exist in Sweden and think that the rich should be involved and contribute more. But what your policy was about was just letting the rich get away with it. You lowered the wealth tax. You reduced corporate taxes. You lowered all the taxes that could be lowered. And you introduced job tax deductions that went mainly to the very richest. There are many taxes to raise to ensure that the income required for Swedish welfare is available. You can also talk about corporate tax, because you can have a different perspective on corporate tax, namely that it is necessary to prevent tax evasion. While you got rid of the wealth statistics, you also got rid of the corporate tax, which means that there is no control data anymore, so everyone at the Tax Agency says: "Introduce a wealth tax and prevent tax planning by at least 0.01 percent." But you are not interested in this, which is also evident because several of the tax evaders that exist are from your parliamentary group.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1296	Mr President, I would like to The last one I don't know what to say about, on the low side. Of course, if more people work, you get more tax. Let me take an example from the county council in Dalarna that I know well. I can look at the financial statements for 2015, tax revenue and government subsidies, and compare a with SKL's forecast for 2017, then I see that taxes and government subsidies have increased by SEK 650 million. If people work, we actually get tax revenue. But if we raise taxes to the mildest degree that people stop working, it will be different, and that's exactly what's the problem with the defense tax. More people would work because they would get more left in their wallets. Many years ago I amused to change a cam belt on my Volvo. With what Volvo would have, I calculated that I needed to work two days as a police officer and then after tax could pay the repair. It took me half a day to do the job. I could have worked and maybe created some security in the streets and squares – it's at least some people who think it's good with cops. This is just one example. A doctor may be wallpapering at home because everything goes away in taxes. The best way to bring in high and good taxes has been proven with the Alliance. It reduced taxes and made sure that more people got into work, and we have reduced Sweden's public debt percentage in relation to the bnp, and we did so in a fantastically good way, even if it was an economic crisis. The President was present and contributed to such a good outcome. Most experts agree on that. Once again, the increase in taxes and the policy of the Left will lead to pure corruption, in my opinion.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1301	Mr President, I would like to Listen and be amazed, I like more cops on the streets who do good. But those police officers should also have a salary and should be paid, and the entire comprehensive police and judicial system should be paid. Today the police are underpaid, we look at all the protests that come. But in order to pay them, money is actually needed, and that money comes in through the tax. I am not of the opinion that we will have fewer hours worked if, for example, Investor's companies do not zero, if the bank tax is increased or if the very richest are allowed to contribute something to the welfare of society. That's not what it looks like. The taxes that you have reduced, nearly 140 billion, have drained our welfare society of resources that are necessary in the welfare society. You spoke in your last post about the various information exchange agreements, which are very important. But there are major shortcomings in those agreements. It is that you can get information from them only on request and that you basically have to know who you are looking for, the account number and so on. There are enormous shortcomings in the exchange of information agreements. That is why I wanted to mention in my speech how much remains to be done about tax evasion. You have not put forward a single proposal there, and I find that sad.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1305	Mr President, I would like to There are more than one million companies in Sweden. 700 000 − 800 000 of them are one-man companies. To this you can add about 200 000 micro-enterprises from one employee up to nine employees. When we talk about capital taxation or imposing additional costs on companies when they have employees, whether in terms of health insurance costs, capital taxation or employers' contributions, we should focus on these companies and their ability to continue to operate or develop their businesses and create more jobs. Instead, in all the discussions, we seem to be focusing on the 40 000 remaining companies that we can imagine being medium-sized or large enterprises – those that will manage anyway because of their size or have the opportunity to take their business elsewhere if there is too much change. Adding additional costs to businesses will greatly affect these small businesses, which do not have the same margins as large companies. They depend on long-term rules of play and to know what to relate to in their planning of the company. These are people who have often created a company based on an idea and want to make it a reality. They have usually invested their own money and the savings they have had to hope that their idea carries all the way. We, as a state, should stand by and help and not put the hookbones for them, but make it easier and make their everyday lives work. Our policy should be based on making it easier, not on the idea that all entrepreneurs want to shoe themselves and have all the margins. Ulf Berg said exemplaryly in his speech that companies should have good soil to grow in. I think that's a good picture that you can use. Something that records for the few companies is the 3:12 rules. They are complicated and need to be changed based on simplicity, clarity and the limitations that may arise. Dividends and capital gains are important elements for making everything work. Sometimes we start far too much from how much tax we have to get into this part instead of starting from the entrepreneur's situation and what are reasonable limits when it comes to getting money back on its capital. Without people risking their money, we are not creating new companies and therefore no new jobs. Even today's rules on generation shifts in few-person companies risk making generation shifts more difficult in some companies. The tax effects can be large and risk delaying motivated generation shifts as well as impairing the use of capital in companies. In 2014, the Alliance Government commissioned a special investigator to review the rules on taxation in the case of transfers of ownership of small-time companies in order to make them more effective. However, the current government has formulated a series of additional tasks which could lead to a deterioration in the tax situation of the owners of the companies. There is reason to revise the rules for the few-man companies, but not in the way that totally impairs the conditions for jobs, growth and entrepreneurship. The original mission of the investigation must and should therefore be safeguarded. First of all, with regard to capital gains in the sale of housing, it can be noted that the number of dwellings built in Sweden is far too small. For the whole country to live, we must ensure that housing can be built throughout the country. Then elements such as broadband, collective communications, va-costs and more important. Here too, it is important to create a policy that is flexible and can be used in different parts of the country. In our expansive metropolitan areas, the lack of mobility in the housing market is a problem. Some of the reasons for the lack of mobility in the housing market lie in the form of taxes. The so-called migration taxes make some people reluctant to change their homes and thus lead to less mobility in the housing market. The cap on deferred capital gains should therefore be removed if a new dwelling is purchased. Payment of the interest on the deferral must also be deferred upon purchase of a new dwelling. In this way, profits on sales are not forced up to taxation. This means that a large part of the lack of mobility caused by the taxes on removal can be eliminated. Instead, both the capital gains tax and the deferred interest are paid when the person no longer receives a deferral. This happens, for example, when the person moves to a rental apartment, especially housing and so on. In areas in Sweden where house prices are not so high, there are other problems that we need to take into account in order to create opportunities for construction. These are areas where the building of own homes is expensive, but where the value of the home may not be in parity with what the cost is. It is also about the fact that an older house will have to change the va-plant but that the value of the house will not be higher by the investment. If so, it is difficult to borrow for that investment. Today, we also take more and more for granted that broadband exists. But it is far from the whole of Sweden that has that luxury. Moving taxes are an important element, and so we press them in our exercise. But a holistic approach is needed in order for us to develop the necessary housing. We Christian Democrats were the driving force for the disappearance of property tax, which we are pleased that the Riksdag decided on. On the other hand, the rateable value system is still in place. We would like that to go to the grave as well, partly because the administration around it costs money that should be able to make use of it in other ways, and partly because the abolition of the rateable value system makes it impossible to reintroduce property tax. Then it can be said again in the case of donations to non-profit organisations that this government has not pinked the market for them. They have removed the gift tax deduction and consider themselves better to distribute funds to non-profit organizations than to people through their gifts. The decline in gifts can clearly be linked to this change. The human aspect of being able to give with the heart is not so important to the government, but most important is to tax these gifts. We Christian Democrats find it sad to see non-profit organisations as an important part of society that should be supported in all possible ways. Mr President, I would like to I commend the Alliance's reservation 5 and the Christian Democrats' reservation 9.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1319	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Larry Söder. I would like to say that companies are very important. It is absolutely crucial that there are good and viable companies in Sweden, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important that we have a policy that ensures that the soil is good for them to grow and function. Companies are also dependent on a welfare society. Companies that can grow and that can become stable need a well-trained workforce, they need roads, they need healthcare and they need everything that a welfare society offers. It must, of course, be paid. Those most affected by tax evasion are small and medium-sized enterprises. It is simply a competitive disadvantage that they cannot plan to avoid their tax as many large companies do. In this context, I would like to hear how KD and Larry Söder view what many organisations are running as one of the most important things in order to stop aggressive tax planning, namely a public and public country-by-country reporting, public register of the real owners of companies and also a country-by-country reporting that is real, i.e. it does not have EUR 750 million as a turnover limit and where the real reporting becomes country-by-country and not just the 28 countries of the EU. I have not heard where you stand on this issue, even though I have discussed this issue many times.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1324	Mr President, I would like to When I listened to the speech by the Left Party in this debate, I thought it was the wrong speech that was given. We had a topical debate on tax evasion that the Left Party had asked for, and I recognized a lot of what was said in that debate. We are now discussing the taxation of companies and entrepreneurs and the opportunities for entrepreneurs to live on the Swedish market. Then I still hear nothing from the Left Party, which means talking about how one would like the Swedish companies to be able to survive. The only thing I hear all the time is that taxation should be increased. I cannot for my life understand how you think that companies can survive and that we will get money to the treasury if you constantly want to raise taxes. I would like the Left Party to explain a few things. How do you want to improve for the Swedish few-person companies to live in Sweden instead of constantly talking about what you think the taxes should be increased? An interpellation debate with the Left Party clearly showed that the Left Party only wants to raise taxes all the time. In that debate, I did not hear that there was any tax whatsoever that Daniel Sestrajc wanted to lower or did not want to raise. I would like to know how you think the cake in Sweden will be bigger if you constantly raise taxes on entrepreneurship. People need to be able to invest their money, their work and their ideas in companies in order for us to grow. That's how we make the welfare increase. It is evident that between 2006 and 2014 revenues to the Treasury and the costs of welfare increased. They did not decline, as the Left Party is constantly trying to get it to. It's a fact.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1329	Mr President, I would like to I note that Larry Söder managed to use two minutes of his speaking time without touching at all the question I asked. Not by a word did he touch it. I find that a little embarrassing. What I have heard from Larry Söder and the Christian Democrats is that morals will solve the problem of tax evasion. It's basically the only thing I read in the articles that you write in different newspapers around Sweden right now. If we get a little better morals in Swedish society, the problem of tax evasion will be solved. I believe that all the members and other voters who voted for the Christian Democrats and who are upset about tax evasion, which is actually also a matter of – corporate taxation and aggressive tax planning – want to know what the Christian Democrats think in addition to increasing the morale of society in order to tackle tax evasion. It is huge sums of money that are being lost out of our country, which could, for example, be used to reduce taxes – if you wish – that could be used to build an even stronger welfare or that could be used to support the expansion plans of small businesses. But not a word we heard about it, but it was just about morality. Now tell us in your next two minutes what you think about what was the issue – public country-by-country reporting. It was something that the Christian Democrats were in favour of before the elections when Diakonia asked the question. Why can't you say yes or no? Are you in favour of public country-by-country reporting today, yes or no? How hard can it be? Do you have any other suggestions on how to tackle tax evasion with which Investor and the Swedish major banks are involved? Now answer the question! You have two more minutes.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1333	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I mentioned that there are 1 million companies in Sweden. 800 000 of them are small businesses and 200 000 of them have between one and nine employees. Not in a word has the Left Party touched on this. It is just a matter of trying to fix all the possibilities that exist to raise taxes and get as much taxes as possible. I share the view of the Left Party that it is reprehensible that people are trying to evade taxes, but I also see an opportunity for us in this House to improve for the small businesses that exist in Sweden and that cannot actually hide money at all. We can ensure that they can share and create a better society for us Swedes. I note that, in this debate, the Left Party has used its speaking time for the 40 000 companies that could, if possible, be eligible. This also applies in interpellation debates. You've forgotten the other 1 million companies, Daniel Sestrajcic. I cannot see how the Left Party should be able to support a budget that actually, as the Social Democrats and the Green Party do to some extent, tries to support the small businesses that exist when it is those you want to tax all the time. You don't say a word about small businesses. You don't say a word about how to get more money to the Treasury in the form of new people coming into work instead of being in alienation. Instead, you keep talking about how to raise taxes and create more and more problems. I cannot understand how the Left Party can pursue this policy and yet say that it is for small businesses.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1337	Mr President, I would like to I am the last but not least speaker in the debate. I say this not only because I shoot 191 centimetres above the ground, but also because I am the Member whom Ulf Berg so beautifully mentioned as the one who has not fully managed to make babysitting work tonight. I will therefore be concise in my speech. We are now debating the report by the Committee on Taxation, Public Health and Consumer Protection (Sku29) Taxation of companies, capital and real estate (re-examination). I support the proposal in the report. There are those who argue that tax policy is more technical than political – that tax policy focuses above all on details where the difference between the right and the left is blurred and an increasingly technocratic attitude fades forward. However, tax policy is anything but technocratic, honourable Members. It is in tax policy that we can see the real dividing lines in Swedish politics. Let me quote a paragraph from the report we are now debating. It may not be directly in-depth on our specific subject of the day, but it is generally about the view of tax policy. In spring 2015, the Parliament adopted new guidelines for fiscal policy (prop. 2014/ 15:100, bet. 2014/ 15:FiU20, rskr. 2014/ 15:254). These show that the primary objective of fiscal policy is to finance common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. Taxes shall be levied in a manner consistent with the overall objectives of the government's economic policy. In addition to securing good and stable tax revenues, tax policy should also create the conditions for sustainable growth and high employment, fair distribution of wealth and contribute to an environmentally and socially sustainable society. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The text continues, but I choose to stay there. What I have now read out, which is the proposal of the Committee on Taxation to the House to take a decision on, shows that Swedish policy has now taken a new line. It is a line in which not every tax is collected exclusively and where not all forms of taxation are referred to as excise duties and thus as an obstacle to production and growth. Instead, the tax system needs to be seen in a wider context. The main objective of tax policy is to finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. We Social Democrats believe that we cannot simply stare at taxes; we must, above all, see what taxes are used for. By investing in our common security systems and an ambitious labour market policy, we will secure people who feel more confident about the future and will have more courage to change when the labour market demands it. By investing in welfare, the whole of society is strengthened by investing in more hands in healthcare, more adults in school and more resources for the common. It is in the conte xten we need to see the tax system, that is, what the money is actually used for. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, fiscal policy must be designed in a prudent and balanced way. The tax reform 1990/ 91, known as the tax reform of the century, was a settlement between the Social Democrats and the then People's Party. The key words were simplicity, clarity and uniformity for both individuals and companies. The aim was to create greater legitimacy and understanding of how our Swedish tax system works and for everyone to participate and contribute in solidarity. This was done through broad tax bases and low tax rates and the removal of numerous exemptions and special provisions. Since then, some 600 changes have been made to the system, by both Social Democratic and bourgeois governments. There is not much left of the original principles either. Having a simple and uniform tax system increases understanding and above all the legitimacy of the system. It is therefore to be welcomed that it has been opened up to discussions on precisely the design of the tax system. There is a need to reform the system in order to return to the principles of simplicity and uniformity, and we are following and participating in that development with confidence. Mr President, I would like to Let me just briefly say something about the fight against tax evasion. As you know, the OECD submitted its proposals for measures to combat tax evasion and tax evasion, the so-called BEPS project – base erosion and profit s hifting. Work is now under way in the EU. After recent scandals about tax evasion and tax evasion, most recently with the Panama documents, there is now a momentum. There is strong popular support for, but also a popular demand that we politicians act. Work continues intensively between the Member States during the spring, and on the part of the committee we are following the process closely. We are engaged in the negotiations, in the hope of finding a common solution with action within the European Union.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1346	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry to keep you here by asking for a line, Erik Ezelius, but your children will love you when you come. You spoke at the end of your speech on tax evasion, and that is a very important issue. I'm sure you've heard me talk about this many times. I agree with you that there is momentum and popular support for making drastic changes, and it is important that we in committee monitor developments and work. More importantly, however, the government is taking more forcefully than the government is doing today. The ten-point programme presented was largely already under way or was already agreed with the Left Party but insufficient. One of the most important elements, as many organisations working on these issues point out, is public country-by-country reporting and that we should not have thresholds that require EUR 750 million before being forced to make public country-by-country reporting. The Social Democrats have previously been in favour of public country-by-country reporting, but we were able to hear in committee how the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise today praised the Social Democratic Government for having opposed public country-by-country reporting. Why is the Social Democracy opposed to public country-by-country reporting when it is one of the most important requirements for us to tackle tax evasion?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1350	Mr President, I would like to I believe that I and Daniel Sestrajcic agree that tax evasion and tax evasion are a top priority. In particular, it is a top priority that this should be implemented in all EU Member States. We have seen for ourselves in this House that when the Commission comes up with a more far-reaching proposal, it is unfortunately putting a brake on the proposal that originally came from the OECD – the BEPS proposal. I do not think we will end the tax evasion with the BEPS project, but we will come back to work on tax evasion and tax evasion for several years to come. But the most important thing that should be on the table right now is to ensure that we get the BEPS project through in this House. We will have to come back to what comes later.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1352	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important for the Social Democrats to go home and do their homework and listen to the organisations that work with this. It is not enough to say that it is important to implement the OECD project, because you and I as well as the Social Democrats know that the OECD project is not enough. It's even said that it might not even happen. Then, of course, Sweden must be a driving force and ensure that the parts contained in the OECD project are improved. The most important requirement from many is public country-by-country reporting. The second thing we are talking about is public registers of the real owners, and even there the government does not do much more than join the idea of the G5 countries around it. I would like to raise another issue, after all, because I do not think I am getting much more answers about the country reports. Is not the Social Democracy's view that taxes should be used for redistribution purposes, that they should act as an instrument of distribution? If it is the view of the Social Democrats that taxes should be used for redistributive purposes, why do you accept that today we have a system that economist Stefan de Vylder says is a tax haven for rich Swedes? It is not property taxation, it is no inheritance and gift tax, it is no property tax, it is low corporate tax and so on. Are you prepared to do something about this, so that Sweden will no longer be the tax haven for rich Swedes as it is today?
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1356	Mr President, I would like to I do not agree with Daniel Sestrajcic that the policy we are pursuing together with the Green Party, in cooperation with the Left Party on the budget, would not have a distributional policy profile. It's the other way around. We see this clearly in the tax increases that were made for 2016. We reduced the tax credit for the people who earn the most and reduced the tax on pensioners. Above all, what I want to come back to in my speech: what is the tax money used for? We are strengthening the public sector. We give more money to school, health care and care. In this way, I do not share Daniel Sestrajcic's view that we should not have a clear agenda for redistributing resources in society.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1358	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry I'm taking a little extra time! I understand it's not easy when you have kids here. But I'll be brief. I agree with the Social Democrats on what you said in your speech, namely that a tax system must be legitimate. It must be simple, and it must be seen as a whole. Then I'll come to my question. What do the Social Democrats think about property tax? Sometimes when you ask Social Democrats, it feels like it is a small cash cow that they are looking at in order to be able to raise additional funds to the state and to be able to make new reforms. But some others say: We will never touch that. Then I ask a representative of the Social Democrats, who is on the Tax Committee, whether the Social Democrats have any intention of introducing a property tax during this term of office.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1363	Mr President, I would like to If it is a tax that many economists, sympathizers to both the right and the left, highlight in a forthcoming tax reform, it is precisely a property tax. An investment in a property or dwelling is among the biggest investments a household makes during its lifetime, I would say. Therefore, it is very important to have long-term rules of play and that people know what applies when they buy their property or their first house. I'll come back to what I mentioned. We would like us in this House to discuss how the tax system will be designed in the future, with broad tax bases and low tax rates. I think Larry Söder and the Christian Democrats can understand that it would be rather difficult for the Social Democrats to go forward with any tax that does not find broad support in this House. Above all, it is about what applies after 2018. This is why it is important to be able to agree on a tax system that extends beyond 2018. This was the purpose of the 1990-1991 tax reform. Unfortunately, much of those principles are gone, but I definitely believe that there are conditions for conducting the corresponding talks today.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1366	Mr President, I would like to Certainly, the investment in a property is the biggest investment a family or a person makes during life. But sometimes the property becomes the property of the children. It might go into the family's possession a couple of three times. You can't always tell where the property is. That is why I believe that the property tax was unfair. It wasn't legitimate. It was not properly designed at all. That is why we Christian Democrats are very pleased that it has disappeared. We would be very concerned if a property tax were to be introduced again in any way. I am fully aware that economists produce it in many different ways and think it is a good tax base. But you can't just look at matters financially, but you also have to look at it politically– things happen in the family, and things happen in different parts of the country– when you introduce such a tax. If I am kind, I see the response of the Social Democrats as not going to go forward with this entirely individually. If it is to be implemented in one way or another, it is a broad majority in the Riksdag that applies. Maybe that's the closest I can get to an answer. Then I interpret it as not coming during the term of office, until 2018.
i-bccf1b0fc25099a7-1369	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder says the last property tax was unfair. One might wonder how fair it is in the transformation of a municipal property tax, which is in practice still a tax. It is, for example, us in Skaraborg who have paid for the removal of the tax. Those who have benefited from this are more those in the rich suburbs of Stockholm, such as Täby and Danderyd. We can discuss how fair it is. But I want to get back to this: if there are long-term rules and we want to be able to create stability and security in Swedish homes, it is above all about finding agreements in this House. My assessment is that there are no such indications at present. However, I believe that the important thing when looking at a future tax system is broad tax bases and rates. Then, as parties, we will probably be able to go in with different positions and different analyses. But we'll take it that day.
