i-e80566190c6bd7c5-2	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party shares several of the views and objections to the Commission's work programme expressed in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We support the concessions that have been made, including the lack of ambition of the Commission on climate, environmental and energy policy issues. The Left Party shares the committee's concern that the free movement of labour must not be at the cost of social dumping. We welcome the Commission's proposal to combat the structural obstacles that make it difficult for women to participate in the labour market. It is also positive that there is attention to discrimination against disabled people and accessibility and that it is a matter for many Member States. There are several other issues and points where we have a different opinion and policy from the majority of the committee. Here I would like to highlight some of the views of the Left Party in these areas. The economic and social crisis in the EU continues to deepen. The EU's focus on saving itself out of the crisis has failed. That is why we believe that Europe needs a new direction for economic policy. We must put people in focus instead of corporate profits in the end. That's what it's all about. The measures proposed in the work programme are far from sufficient. The Left Party wants to see a clearer priority given to measures to stimulate the economy and the goal of full employment based on human needs. We believe that debt write-offs for individual countries, such as Greece, are a prerequisite for reversing economic development and safeguarding jobs and welfare. It is a question of stabilising Greece, which has been affected by the fact that the economic distribution between countries falls unfairly in the EU. The rich countries benefit from the entire construction. The Left Party also believes that Sweden should not defend the euro at all costs. To continue to provide billions of our common assets in support of banks avoiding credit losses is not reasonable. In the case of Greece, the banks have been saved at the expense of the unemployed, the poor and pensioners. The crisis is complete in Greece. We believe that the EU must enable individual Member States to return to national currencies in a balanced way. The economic crisis has a very negative impact on the citizens of Europe. Among other things, we see racism and xenophobia growing throughout Europe. It's all according to the research. As gaps increase and resources are redistributed significantly unequally, conflicts of this kind increase. It's dangerous. We need to take a different direction. We need to start working for equality. This concerns both health and the major issue of xenophobia, which is growing violently in some parts of Europe. Discrimination against Roma and anti-Ziganism is also a challenge across Europe. We believe that the Commission should have started work to protect the rights of the Roma throughout Europe. In the wake of the crisis, we can see how conservative forces are questioning women's rights and the progress that has been made in the field of gender equality. This would have been a good opportunity to lift and safeguard women's rights. Instead, however, we see how the Commission has very clearly chosen to reduce the priority given to gender equality in its work. We look with concern at how the EU and the EU Member States have chosen to face the refugee crisis. At a time of several bloody conflicts and the largest flows of refugees since the Second World War, the EU would need to protect the right of asylum and work out legal ways and ensure that all EU Member States live up to their international commitments. It is also the case that we in the West have some, so to speak, influence on these conflicts historically. There is an unequal distribution of resources. There have been various oil interests and other things that have triggered these conflicts, so it is important that we help when the crisis looks like it does. These perspectives are completely lacking in the work programme. Instead, it highlights proposals to correct weaknesses in the Dublin system and strengthen the European Asylum Support Office. We believe that this will not solve the situation of the millions of people now on the run. The work programme highlights the need for stronger and deeper cooperation with third countries to improve migration management. In reality, this has meant, among other things, that the EU promised an increasingly authoritarian Turkey EUR 3 billion in order for Turkey to prevent people fleeing from entering the EU. The Left Party is strongly critical of the EU's agreement with Turkey from the November summit and will require our government and the EU to make a careful account of how Turkey uses the money and how it invests in the refugees. Another point we want to raise is the EU-US free trade agreement, TTIP. The Left Party is fundamentally in favour of creating conditions for increased trade, but it must be fair and based on human beings and the environment. It cannot be based primarily on the profits of companies and can be reconciled from such a perspective. That must be what the economy is really for, the human being, who is in focus. We are deeply concerned about the ongoing negotiations on the EU-US Free Trade Agreement (TTIP). We very much hope that this will not undermine democracy.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-18	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the Commission's 2016 work programme. I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. Mr President, I would like to There are many important issues that are summarised in ten points by the Commission. I wanted to touch on three areas a little more specifically: the EU's refugee and migration policy/security policy, climate and energy policy, and the relationship with the EU's neighbours. First, a historical review, even a few months from now. 2015 was a different year in the history of the EU. We had to live through great challenges practically, emotionally and economically. Visualize the image of the terrorist attacks in Paris in November: 130 dead, countless injured and anxious relatives – a nation in crisis and with a state of emergency. France went to war with Daish and appealed for EU military assistance under the EU solidarity clause. Sweden responded quickly and offered help. Other EU countries did the same. Terrorist acts shall be combated across national borders. Such solidarity is a natural part of the value of membership within the EU family. I am the first to agree with this and send my warmest thoughts to the people of France, to the victims and to the relatives of the victims. May terror in all its forms be combated effectively and purposefully! Mr President, I would like to Visualize another image from September 2015 – a dead three-year-old boy washed up on a sandy beach in Turkey. It was a picture that made the whole of Europe and the world react forcefully. The fundraisers to provide financial support mainly to the refugees from Syria broke record. Ordinary people and non-profit organisations showed an unparalleled solidarity between people. The waves of debate were high that the EU, with its 500 million people, was able to receive a larger proportion of the world's 60 million refugees. Sweden, together with like-mind countries such as Germany, managed to achieve a distribution mechanism for the distribution of 160 000 refugees among the 28 EU Member States. So much for good, but the aftertaste, Mr President, became bitter and the mood stiff. Germany, Austria and Sweden showed solidarity, which in many respects compares with the efforts made during the Second World War when millions of people were on the run. The other 25 Member States joined each other on how few refugees they wanted to receive, how high fences were to be built around the EU's external borders and how they could, in the best way, tighten up the basic foundations of the Schengen Agreement: that asylum is sought in the country of arrival in the EU. This is another image of the EU, an unsolidarian Europe. It is a Europe in which fear and self-interest are taken over by solidarity, a completely different Europe from that of the fight against terrorism. I do not put the content and seriousness of these issues against each other; I merely exemplify how different Member States' agendas can develop when solidarity is most needed. That is why, Mr President, it is important that the Commission's work programme for 2016 gives such a clear priority to these issues. Mr President, I would like to Climate and energy issues are very important in EU cooperation. The EU as a progressive global player in climate discussions is a quality guarantee for a future fossil fuel-free world. The Paris negotiations were a step in the right direction, and there is much good that the rest of the world can contribute to the modern and necessary changes of the future regarding the journey to the 1.5-degree target. The Swedish Government and our Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson made very good efforts, and we are very grateful for that. It also contributed to the positive results of the negotiations. Although the EU is a progressive player in the international community, there is much to do in many EU countries. Developments from fossil fuels to biofuels in order to reduce the burden of the vehicle fleet on the climate and the withdrawal from our finite resources are important. The change in many EU countries' energy systems from coal, natural gas and oil dependence to fossil fuel-free alternatives such as wind and solar energy is also important. This is also a safety issue, as the EU depends on creating internal energy solutions in an otherwise uncertain environment. We have it decently strained in Sweden and do well in energy shortages, but many EU countries are poorly equipped because of dependence on, for example, natural gas from outside the EU. A new energy tax directive would be welcome for the future. It is good that the Commission is giving priority to climate and energy issues, even if it could have been a more progressive starting point in the work programme itself. Mr President, I would like to The EU as a stronger global player is a cornerstone of a safer world. Now, if ever, the common foreign policy must become even more focused and Europe-wide. When 28 countries unite, it is difficult for other actors in, for example, peace talks and human rights dialogues to ignore the power of 500 million people's elected actors in major world political events. We forget that the US and Russia actually have fewer people together than the EU has. Enlargement of the EU is important. The Commission's discussions and dialogues with associated countries and candidate countries lay the foundations for modern conditions for more democracy, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption, the defence and development of the rule of law and economic development in the EU as well as in the EU's neighbouring countries. The enlargement process also has a further dimension. Free movement in Europe can be strengthened and create completely different opportunities for economic interaction between countries thanks to the power of migration, where people are prepared to develop and contribute to the availability of good labour in different EU countries under the guise of good working conditions. Mobility between countries is modern, while protectionism and nationalism are out-of-date and show the direction back to the old Europe, in constant conflicts and wars between neighbouring countries, often based on prestige and an unwillingness to cooperate because they are the wrong people – culturally and ethnically – on the other side of the borders. Mr President, I would like to We quickly forget that the European continent has suffered two world wars in the 20th century and a bloody war in the Balkans more than 20 years ago. The EU is basically a peace project that has created unique synergies on a variety of other issues. That is why it is so important for the Commission to put all the emphasis on the importance of further enlargement of the EU. Of course, there are times of lack of solidarity between EU countries, but more often EU countries stand up for joint decisions, not least in foreign policy. The sanctions against Russia and Belarus are examples of solidarity with a focus on creating better conditions for peace and security throughout the European continent.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-39	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Commission's work programme. It was adopted in December and sets out the major political priorities for the new Commission during the year. The aim of the Commission's programme is to make a difference to the major and horizontal issues – those issues, Mr President, which cannot be resolved at national level, issues that need cross-border cooperation. In these times when much of the work we are doing and the issues we are wrestling with here in Parliament, as in all other national parliaments, is about conflicts and people on the run, there is only one way to approach these issues, and that is cooperation. It was precisely in this way that Europe chose to approach and to unite after the Second World War. It was a time when Europe was ravaged. Extremism had destroyed several lives. People had fled, hidden and killed. It was a time when the good forces prevailed and Europe's countries and leaders realised that a continent that cooperates is much better placed to offer its citizens a life of peace under good circumstances. I think this is important to bear in mind, Mr President, when we are debating the Commission's work programme today. The aim is precisely to achieve a better world, a better Europe, and not only Europe, but also Europe's neighbourhood. The issues we are debating are horizontal. When it comes to the actual handling of each specific issue, it is then the substantive committees and the EU Board that deal with it, and therefore it is a somewhat horizontal debate today. I will raise a few specific issues in my speech. It is clear that in a speech in this House it is not possible to pick up a whole programme. There are far too many questions that would come up in that case, and I would take the time of the colloquium. I would also like to say in this connection that, like the other alliance parties, we fully support the committee's proposal in its opinion and call for its approval. What questions do I want to raise? One issue concerns the so-called Posting of Workers Directive, which we in the Alliance address in our particular opinion. It is important precisely for there to be a common labour market for European citizens so that they can work in other countries, be sent out and know that there is security. It is about social and economic rights, that is, pay, holidays, job security – simply protection for workers. We need more of this. Not every country can manage on its own. There is cooperation. As a result, Europe has become much better today than Europe was when it was formed. Another issue I want to raise is not mentioned with very many lines in the statement. It's about antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic resistance is an issue of world nature class. Here the EU can make a difference. In cases where the bacteria become completely resistant to existing drugs, there is a high risk that isolation and renunciation will resume. Here, the EU can make a difference, on the one hand, for cross-border cooperation on prescription rules and, on the other hand, for research, development and education in order to find new means and ways of treating and overcoming antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Another issue I would like to raise is the Eastern Partnership. The Eastern Partnership was established a few years ago on the initiative of Sweden and Poland. The aim was to support the Eastern countries in order to ensure that there too there is a positive development of democracy, the labour market and influence. I say this because of the situation in Ukraine today. When the people of Ukraine expressed their wish to move closer to the EU loud and clear at Majdan, Russia reacted. Russia reacted so strongly that Russian aggression still persists. The EU has not left Ukraine. The EU stands by its principles and supports Ukraine unanimously, including through sanctions against Russia. This also shows in practical action how the EU can work to support peace and democracy. I would also like to raise another issue which the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has included in its opinion. I mention the civil committee here because all the committees in Parliament have been given the opportunity to speak to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs drew up another issue that may seem small, but it is important. It is about each country's right to appoint regulations for the appointment of board members. The EU has expressed ideas on gender quotas when appointing members of company boards. From a moderate point of view and within the Alliance, we say that this is an issue to be decided at national level. It is not something that should be decided by the European Union. That is an important principle. Issues that benefit from joint work and joint agreements shall also be decided at the common level, other issues at the national level. This is also what the Committee on Civil Liberties has said. Then there is the issue of migration policy and the refugee crisis. As Mr Niemi has said before, the Moderates and I fully support the description. We share the view that Europe must cooperate. I've reported eight minutes, and now I'm out of time. Unfortunately, Mr President, I am going to exceed the time for a short time because the issue is urgent. Europe needs to work together on refugees. Europe will continue to be a continent offering people fleeing refuge. We will extend a helping hand for those in need of protection. For this to be possible, Europe must work together. 160 000 people are looking for help. An individual country cannot offer this aid, but Europe as a continent can cooperate and be a haven. This is an important human question. We must not forget that it was precisely humanity that created the European Union at one time.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-54	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the European Commission's 2016 work programme. I would like to start by reminding the House that the great classical debate on European policy will come a little later in the spring. The Liberals are the Swedish parliamentary party that wants to go the farthest in European cooperation by deepening, expanding and tying us together even more when it comes to the EU's foundations in terms of democracy, freedom and human rights. I would like to start briefly with a few words on the European situation right now. EU cooperation is in the deepest crisis we have ever seen in the history of the European Union. When the cruel war rages in Syria and 60 million are on the run, more countries than Sweden, Germany and Austria should have shown leadership and genuine solidarity. Responsibility and solidarity are collective in a Union. When democracy in the world goes back for the ninth year in a row, we should be able to expect more of the EU countries. We should expect everyone to pay tribute to freedom of the press, transparency and human rights. Contrary to this, EU countries such as Hungary and Poland are embarrassing the Union by trampling on free speech and attacking fundamental freedoms. The Swedish government has been strangely quiet when neighbouring countries disarm freedom. In Pyry Niemis's speech, too, this shone forcefully with its absence. When we should have learned from our European history, when we have learned so much about right-wing extremism, racism and the various shades of brown, when we have seen how evil and destructive forces have grown on European soil, while violent Islamic extremists have carried out brutal acts of terror in Paris and Copenhagen, Europe should have acted very differently. In these tough times, we need more cooperation, not less. We should remember that Europe has grown through past crises in history. In particular, more cross-border cooperation is needed on issues that cannot be resolved nation by nation. Free movement in the EU has given us increased prosperity, a better business environment and greater opportunities for people. That's good. Unfortunately, however, it is not only European citizens, tourists and hardworking people who benefit from border cooperation, but also criminal gangs who exploit open borders. We see how, year by year, serious crime has been strengthened in many parts of Europe despite the fact that the EU has tried to resist. We have seen what happens when safety fails and it happens to the most vulnerable people, how pimps cynically drive around trafficking victims on grotesque tours where women and girls are forced to sell themselves in country after country. It is the slavery of our time in Europe. We see weapons spreading across borders, and it is easy for young people to buy drugs, not to mention the increased activity of Islamism, Daish and other terrorist groups and cynical terrorism in Europe. Today, as mentioned earlier, half a billion people live in the EU. This compares with over 300 million citizens in the United States. For us Liberals, it goes without saying that the European Union needs federal authorities in the same way as the United States. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore necessary to establish a European FBI in the long term. It is impossible for any police authority at national level to investigate serious crimes committed across a continent. As a result, millions of victims today often stand unrepentant and, in many cases, criminals can run freely in the streets of Europe. We Liberals therefore want European judicial cooperation to be strengthened. That is why we have written a special opinion on this front. It's about the police, it's about the secret police, and it's about the prosecutor. In order to stop cross-border and serious crime, EU prosecution cooperation Eurojust needs to be developed into a European Public Prosecutor's Office, where the European police force can also participate in investigations. It is about stopping trafficking in human beings, money laundering, drug smuggling and cheating with grant money. The Commission's proposal for an EU Public Prosecutor's Office to investigate fraud using EU funds is a step in the right direction. It is to be hoped that Eppo will become a sharper weapon against fraudsters throughout Europe. I find it regrettable that more parties in this House do not think it is good that we cooperate more on this front and want to strengthen that cooperation. We Liberals hope that, in future, this public prosecutor's office will have a much broader mandate. This is needed for a safer and more stable Europe.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-70	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the European Commission's 2016 work programme, a programme called Time for a new impetus. A somewhat clever headline, may seem, but after a miserable 2015 with slow economic recovery, great concern in our surrounding world, more people on the run than in decades and terrorist attacks on European soil, the European Commission estimates that it is time to act differently – to take a new step. It's a welcome insight. Mr President, I would like to The Commission points out that the refugee crisis and migratory pressure on external borders are the most urgent priority for the EU today. Instability, wars and conflicts in the neighbourhood of the EU mean that the issue will continue to dominate the political agenda in the coming years. The Commission therefore wants to correct shortcomings and weaknesses in the Dublin system. But a system that has so completely failed requires more than correction. It takes a new model. Before us is now an important piece of work that this House will have occasion to come back to. The report stresses that better protection must be given to people who have fled to It's important. But when the war in Syria soon enters its sixth year, it is not enough to provide protection. It's about being able to give people hope. It is about being able to give people a meaningful existence. And as long as they do not have the right to work to earn a living and as long as children go without schooling, then people will leave in the hope of a better future in Europe. As Hédi Fried put it on Holocaust Memorial Day: It's not just about surviving. It's about living. That is why a new impetus is needed for EU action that focuses not only on the humanitarian and short-term but on long-term and sustainable solutions in order to create jobs and the future. More is needed here. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs has said, this opinion calls for a broader approach to development and migration. Here's where new moves are needed. Mr President, I would like to In recent days we have seen terrible pictures of al-Asad-Assad and Putin bombing Aleppo and how people in desperation and to survive are fleeing towards a closed Turkish border. We have been able to read about how the Islamic State links a firm grip on the outlawed and decomposed Libya. Russia's warfare in Ukraine is still ongoing. Yes, Europe's neighbourhood is anything but peaceful. It's anything but stable. The new European Neighbourhood Policy will thus be an important attempt at stabilisation. But the neighbourhood policy has become increasingly complex. There are major differences between the neighbourhoods, large differences between our relations with the countries of the East and with the countries of the South and large differences between countries. It is therefore also welcome that the European Commission's report finally talks about tailor-made solutions to achieve stability. In our motley neighborhood, it is no longer possible to run the approach An increasingly confident and aggressive Russian foreign policy leads to major challenges for many of the countries in the region. A more open economy and free trade with the EU is unfortunately seen by Russia only as a threat to its own power rather than as an opportunity for the region to progress towards prosperity and stability. With regard to the southern neighbourhood, the hope that was sparked in North Africa and the Middle East during the Arab Spring has turned into uncertainty and concern. Tunisia is a bright spot, but it is a country in great need of EU support in order to continue successfully in the path it has chosen – the democratic one. Dark forces threaten this positive development. We're not gonna let these powers win! The EU must be involved in the further democratic construction process. This is where we need to be concretely present. The EU has been an important player and must continue to play an active role as a security and economic partner of Tunisia. I believe this is a key to the neighbourhood policy in the south. It is welcome that the government has decided to open an embassy in Tunis. We Christian Democrats have been doing this for a long time, because Sweden and the European Union have an important role to play in their neighbourhood; there is no doubt about that. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal to add to the documents the Commission's work programme for 2016 and I call for the reservations to be rejected. Now let us all make an effort to ensure that this does not stop at fine words! Let us show, with action, that we want to see seriously – new moves that lead to prosperity, security and stability and that result in a better effort than the one we saw EU cooperation deliver in 2015!
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-83	Mr President, Members of Parliament. 2015 was a year of great trials for our part of the world, but there were also sparkles of light that aroused hope. At the climate summit in Paris, we reached a historic agreement on a new globally binding climate agreement. The agreement is a milestone for the world. The great work is ahead of us, but the efforts in Paris greatly increase our chances of achieving global sustainable development. The refugee crisis has been and continues to be a dominant issue for the EU. 60 million people are on the run in the world. 1 million applied for asylum in the EU last year. It has shown a great need to strengthen the EU's common system of migration and asylum. The unrest with conflicts in both the southern and eastern neighbourhoods of the EU underlines the importance of an active, coherent foreign policy for peace and security in our neighbourhood. The terrorist attacks in Paris place a further focus on how developments in our world are also linked to our security and future in the EU and underline the importance of EU coordination, EU cooperation, EU solidarity, active cooperation and the fight against terrorism. In the area I am usually responsible for in the government, for example, it is about exchanging experiences on how to prevent radicalisation. The economic recovery in Europe is continuing and the focus on social issues has increased in the EU's work. The fact that the European institutions and Greece finally reached a constructive process on the future of Greece in its very difficult economic and urgent financial situation shows strength. The climate, migration and foreign policy, the labour market and gender equality will be the focus of my speech. Mr President, I would like to In December, as I said, the world managed to agree on a global climate agreement and a new universal agenda for sustainable development. The start has now been made for a significant increase in climate work for all the countries of the world. The difficult work on reducing emissions remains. Sweden and the EU will show leadership through concrete measures at home in broad collaboration with all social actors. The new global agreement states that the temperature increase should be kept well below two degrees and that we should strive to limit it to 1.5 degrees. In order to achieve this objective, the countries will gradually step up their commitments. For Europe to be able to live up to this and set a global example, we must have a coherent and ambitious climate, energy and environmental policy. The European Energy Union shall contribute to the creation of an energy system designed to keep global temperature growth below two degrees. To achieve the 2030 climate and energy targets, all future EU proposals need to be designed in line with the EU's long-term climate targets. Sweden plays a major role. In its opinion, Parliament, like the government, underlines the importance of ambitious goals in the field of the environment, energy and climate. Sweden has set itself the goal of becoming one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries, and we want more countries in the EU to face the same challenge. If the EU succeeds in being a world leader in the transition to a sustainable society, it will also bring great competitive advantages and strengthen our economic development. When the whole world is simultaneously looking for smart transport modes, green energy and resource-efficient technologies, it is the companies and countries that find and can commercialise them first that wins. Mr President, I would like to The number of refugees in the world is the largest since World War II. The EU's solidarity and capacity for responsibility is put to the test. The challenges are large and complex, but not insurmountable. The EU's reception of around 1 million people in 2015 represents only 2 per million of the EU population. The figures make it clear: if we can share responsibility together, we can help. If all Member States had taken the same responsibility for the reception of refugees as Sweden, the EU could offer security and security to those who have fled from war and persecution. Therefore, responsibility for receiving asylum seekers should be shared jointly and severally by all EU Member States. The fact that this does not happen today seriously makes the situation of the European Union, of the countries and of people on the run difficult. What we are seeing in Europe is not primarily a refugee crisis – it is a crisis of responsibility. In 2015, the EU took several important decisions to address the emergency situation and strengthen the existing asylum system, but much remains to be done. The common asylum and migration policy must be renewed. We need a new, long-term and common European asylum system, in which the Member States share the responsibility of accepting people in need of protection in solidarity. The decisions taken jointly by the EU for better reception should be implemented urgently, and border cooperation must be strengthened in order to ensure the control of the external borders and to organise reception. Last year alone, 3,700 people in the Mediterranean drowned on their way to Europe to seek asylum. One third of them were children. It is an untenable situation, and therefore Sweden is pushing for legal ways into the EU to seek asylum. The countries that do the greatest work in receiving people in the current refugee situation are the countries in the absolute vicinity of the EU and the crisis. The EU has an interest and responsibility in supporting democracy, stability and economic development in its neighbourhood. The EU needs to step up its efforts to tackle the root causes of the unrest by promoting peace in which the crisis is now spreading, in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Libya. The EU must also strengthen its policies and develop relations with the countries of the Middle East and North Africa, and stand up for countries' right to make democratic and sovereign decisions and choose their own future. The EU shall preserve and protect the European security regime, which is challenged by Russia's aggression against Ukraine. EU cooperation with Turkey is important. It is important that Turkey and the EU can demonstrate concrete progress in the implementation of the joint action plan on migration and mutual commitments. However, developments in the country in terms of human rights are very worrying. It is essential that the EU does not compromise its values in its cooperation with Turkey. Cooperation will be based on the formal EU accession process, which will make it possible to make clear demands on Turkey. An immediate ceasefire between the Turkish Government and the PKK is needed so that violence ceases and the peace process can be seriously resumed. Sweden is committed to an active EU in the Middle East peace process and to implementing the EU's positions with the aim of a two-state solution in which Israel and Palestine can live side by side in peace and security. The Council conclusions of 2009 and 2014 continue to guide Swedish positions and cover all so-called final status issues such as borders, security, refugees, Jerusalem's status as well as water and natural resources. The EU makes a clear distinction between Israel within the 1967 internationally recognised borders and settlements in Palestine. It is not compatible with international law to build settlements in occupied territory. Mr President, I would like to The economic crisis has challenged cohesion in Europe. Creating a cohesive Europe that is both economically strong and socially sustainable now requires economic development and increased competitiveness combined with solidarity. Freedom of movement is a cornerstone of EU cooperation and should go hand in hand with social security, high worker protection and good working conditions for all workers, wherever they come from. In order to exploit the potential of the internal market, it is important for people to have the courage to go to other Member States to work while ensuring that their social rights are safeguarded. The government has successfully worked to increase the role of social issues in EU cooperation. Social issues are now high on the EU agenda, and the Commission highlights topics such as equal pay for equal work and social rights. Mr President, I would like to At a time when far-right and populist winds are blowing in Europe and our common founding values are being challenged, the EU must stand up for human rights, democracy, the principles of the rule of law and gender equality. It is important in the EU's international action, and it is also important when the European Commission acts within the EU. I would like to mention that Hungary has been criticised on several occasions in recent years for failing to respect the principles of the rule of law. I should also like to mention in my speech that we have seen a worrying development in Poland. Sweden welcomes the Commission's decision to launch a structured dialogue with the Polish Government within the framework to prevent threats to the rule of law in the EU. As guardian of the EU Treaties, the Commission has an obligation to monitor developments in the Member States. All Member States have a responsibility to live up to the EU's fundamental values in accordance with the EU Treaties. Sweden has a feminist government and works for an equal Europe with the same rights and freedoms for all people. The Commission's work programme highlights the importance of countering structures that restrict women's freedom and draws attention to various aspects of discrimination, such as, as has been said, because of disability. This welcomes Sweden, and we will act as a driving force. Among other things, the government is working to ensure that the EU initiative New start for working parents receives an equal and modern parental leave as a starting point. In order to ensure a high participation rate for women, the initiative should also address other important aspects such as access to high-quality, affordable pre-school education. Sweden is also pushing for the promotion of the work against violence against women in armed conflicts and wishes to underline the importance of the appointment of an equal opportunities adviser in the EU External Action Service. In several European countries, the rights of LGBT people are currently threatened by violations and discrimination. The EU needs to take strong action to counter these developments, and it is positive that the Commission has initiated an action plan to promote equal rights for LGBT people. In particular, Sweden welcomes the fact that the Commission continues to push for the adoption of the important anti-discrimination directive. Mr President, I would like to The outcome of the referendum on UK EU membership will have a major impact on the development of the EU in the coming years. The UK is an important partner for Sweden in EU cooperation, and it is of strategic interest to us that it remains a member of the EU. Signals continue, from both the UK and the EU institutions and Member States, that all aim for an agreement to be reached shortly. If the European Council reaches an agreement, we can expect a referendum this summer. Sweden's starting points in the process have been to protect a well-functioning EU, not to water down fundamental principles and to bring about reforms that benefit all Member States and strengthen the EU as a whole. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by warmly welcoming the fact that, judging from the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in general, there is a great deal of political agreement on the Commission's work programme. Commission President Juncker has made it clear that the EU should focus on economic development and employment and that it should take more responsibility and deal with the reception of refugees in solidarity with common solutions. That's good, but more needs to be done. The government is actively working to ensure that the EU retains its focus on ambitious climate policy, solidarity and legal certainty in migration and asylum policy, an equal society that stands up for human rights and freedoms, and more jobs in a European labour market with fair working conditions.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-111	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin raised several important issues. I will stick to one of them, namely the refugee issue. I see it as one of the most important issues on the European agenda today. How can the EU help to protect the people in need – those seeking asylum and having asylum reasons? I am thinking here of the Dublin Regulation, which is often mentioned. They say it's broken. This is, of course, serious. That is why I would like to ask Gustav Fridolin how the government is working to ensure that the Dublin Regulation does not fail, but that all EU countries, as the Commission states, will cooperate so that the EU can offer strong and strong protection to those who need it.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-114	Mr President, I would like to Many thanks for the question, Margareta Cederfelt, and for the emphasis on the importance of discussing these issues and finding ways forward. It is questionable that it is precisely the Dublin Regulation that guarantees that we will have a functioning migration policy in the EU where all countries take responsibility. Of course, the rules we have are to be followed, but it is just as obvious that when faced with a serious crisis, as the world is currently doing with the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War, one must be able to adjust the rules so that they work in this crisis. I believe that it has become apparent to many in the European Union, at least to a large extent to us, that what we need today is a solidarity-based refugee policy in which all the Member States of the European Union assume a great deal of responsibility. The Dublin Regulation basically means that it is the countries which themselves have the greatest reception, i.e. the greatest number of asylum seekers in that particular country, that are to take responsibility. The Dublin Regulation does not contain a functioning redistributive mechanism. The answer to the question of what the government has done is that during the year we have been very pushing for a redistributive mechanism. It can serve as the basis for a future solidarity policy for refugees, in which all EU Member States that do not have this today are building up effective reception and where all Member States are involved in taking responsibility. However, the existing rules must then be reviewed and new rules developed.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-119	Mr President, I would like to I agree with what the Minister for Education said, namely that there is a need for a review of the regulatory framework and the possibilities for dealing with the refugee situation. At the same time, it is important to remember that it is a crisis now. It's people who stand and fall and run for their lives. It takes time to make new deals. The Dublin Regulation exists. There are also agreements to be improved on European asylum systems and on strengthening the European Asylum Support Office. But what makes the government more explicit? It would be interesting to hear more about this, because people are knocking on the door of Europe now to seek refuge. The question cannot wait: What does the government do?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-122	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question is that the government has an agenda in two parts that coincides. One is about what we as Member States are doing to ensure that the people who have come to our country and who need protection receive it. It is extremely important that Sweden continues to be a country that stands up for international law and the rules of the right to asylum and that deals with asylum applications made in Sweden on the basis of an individual examination. I have heard in this House that there are proposals for Sweden to cease processing asylum applications, but if any EU country were to behave in this way, it would seriously impair the conditions for achieving effective solidarity within the EU. The second part is to ensure that individual individual asylum procedures are combined with a system in which all EU Member States take responsibility. We have applied to be part of the redistributive mechanism that exists within the European Union and that we have pushed forward. The Swedish Government has been the driving force behind that decision. We are now working together with countries that have positions similar to ours, and we are working well with the European Commission to bring about a new regulatory framework for European migration policy based on joint responsibility between EU Member States where everyone shares responsibility. I would like to underline what I said in my speech. If all EU Member States had received as many refugees from Syria as Sweden had already done before the summer, before the autumn headlines on refugee waves and flows, not a single individual would have had to remain in the burning, swelling refugee camps at Syria's border. That is how much our responsibility has been, and it would be for the European Union, as possible, to take responsibility for the current situation. However, this presupposes that all Member States are involved. That is the work we are doing now.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-128	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats firmly believe that the EU is and should be the central forum for Swedish foreign and security policy. The EU's great strength lies in a foreign policy based on standards and values. As the world's largest economy, the world's largest trading partner and the world's largest donor, the EU has the opportunity to influence developments in the world through many different channels. The Swedish Government has prioritised the removal of the EU ministerial post. The Swedish government calls itself an independent voice in international contexts. In view of this, I would like to ask Minister Fridolin: in what way can an independent voice – a government without a European Minister – operate in a European context and be involved in running a strong and powerful foreign policy at a time when it is needed most?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-131	Mr President, I would like to I believe that I am standing in this debate underscores the fact that the Swedish Government has 24 EU ministers. The time has passed when the EU could be regarded as an individual matter for any politician to deal with. In the same way as the Foreign Affairs Committee in Parliament in the discussion of this opinion allowed all members of parliament to take part in and take an interest in the European Commission's work programme, all the different ministers in one government must be ministers of the European Union. I'm not a Skåne minister in the government, in which case I would have run for it. But we have no Skåne minister, for Skåne's politics is Sweden's policy and therefore a matter for all ministers in the government. In the same way, it is with the levels above Sweden, such as the EU. All ministers are responsible for EU issues in their area and through government collective decision-making. That's why I'm standing here. As far as Sweden's independence in international politics is concerned, there is one. Sweden is an unaligned country. Sweden is a country that stands up for human rights and expresses things that other countries sometimes refrain from expressing. I think that was quite clear in my speech. I do not believe that the governments of all EU countries had spoken about LGBT people's rights and about the importance of combating discrimination against disabled people and the importance of gender equality. There is an independence in being able to stand up for these issues, but independence is not in contrast to a coherent common EU line in foreign policy in particular, as I also pointed out in my speech. There is a strength in being able to stand up with a clear voice and be able to coordinate with others. There's no contradiction.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-137	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. We agree on a lot in the opinion, but our views on Sweden's independence differ. I mean, we are highly dependent on each other in the time we live in. When we speak with a single voice, we are not strong, but quite weak. I would like to return to what has rightly dominated this debate, namely the refugee situation. In the report that we have heard and that we have liked, the Commission is putting forward some proposals on what it believes to be a new impetus. Margareta Cederfelt was in on the Dublin Regulation, but the Commission is also presenting proposals on border controls and legal routes. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: where does the government stand when it comes to creating legal ways, when the messages about this have not been so strong, especially in the EU Council, and in the case of an EU-led border control?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-141	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish voice is never alone, but it is prepared to express what people and the world need to hear. This means that you are prepared to take conflicts sometimes. There is also Swedish independence, which does not contradict EU coordination in foreign policy, for example. As far as the questions raised by Sofia Damm are concerned, I have been the driving force to open up the debate on legal ways. We have managed to push the debate in the EU to talk about whether there should be legal ways. When Sweden started to pursue this, it was in a context where few in the EU even responded to the statements made by the new government. It was included in Stefan Lövven's first declaration of government. Now it is about how the legal roads should be designed and look. We believe in legal ways where you get a legal way into the EU to seek asylum. We have looked at different models for this. Maria Ferm is appointed as the government's investigator on the basis of the agreement on migration policy made by the government with, among others, the Christian Democrats to see how legal paths can be designed in the future. As I mentioned in my speech, it is of the utmost importance that we start work on legal pathways that can lead to an organised reception. Every step of border control – it goes without saying that the EU must protect its external border in the cooperation that we have – must be combined with the functioning of legal channels, in order for people seeking asylum to have the opportunity to enter the EU and have an individual examination. It is important not least on the basis of the calculation that I ended up with Margareta Cederfelt with: what we are seeing is certainly not a refugee crisis. The EU would have every opportunity to cope with the reception of those who have sought and of many more people who today actually need protection from war and persecution if all EU Member States take responsibility. But then we must combine a new refugee policy with both border controls and legal ways.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-146	Mr President, I would like to I shall not enter into the discussion as to whether a government needs to have a Minister for Europe or not. But I can see that there have been such things in the past, and a number of them have spoken very clearly about LGBT people's rights, feminism, human rights and other things, so it can be a certain effect to have a person who is clearly working on this in Brussels. The case of the Berlin Wall makes for nice pictures. But it all started in the shipsyards. It is a quote from Lech Wałęsa, who was the first post-communist president in Poland and a well-known trade unionist, who, in fact, nine years before the fall of the Berlin Wall, started the struggle against communism and socialist repression in Poland. I am pleased that the Government had a few lines about Poland in its speech, because it is extremely important that it should come up. We see a Polish tragedy, with a government that is pursuing a vulgar nationalist policy that is populist and anti-European and is heading straight for a ditch right now. I am very surprised that the Red-Green Government has had a rather silent voice precisely in the case of Poland and indeed in the case of Hungary in the autumn. It has mainly been about exchanges of views in this House, where some of us have discussed with Mrs Wallström and submitted written questions. Against this background, it is nevertheless positive that the government wants the European Commission to review what is happening in the country right now. But I am interested in how far the Red Green Government is prepared to go towards countries that violate the EU's fundamental values of democracy and human rights. It's about reviewing and calling but actually also punishing. I want to know what Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin's view is when it comes to daring to impose economic sanctions on countries that trample on the EU's foundations.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-151	Mr President, I would like to Let me first contradict Mrs Ohlsson's description of reality. I do not share the description that the Swedish Government would be silent about developments in either Poland or Hungary. Both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, for that matter, other ministers who have an active exchange with countries, such as the Minister for Culture, have been very active in the discussions on the importance of freedom of expression, the importance of freedom of organisation and the importance of upholding the EU's fundamental values and the fundamental democratic values under discussion. The question that Birgitta Ohlsson is asking is how far the government is prepared to go. I think that Parliament understands that in the delicate situation we are in now – where Sweden welcomes a review of Poland on the basis of the Commission's mandate as guardian of the EU Treaty – it would be unfortunate to have a discussion in every EU parliament on what penalty mechanisms individual governments would like to use against an individual country while such a review is under way. I note that the EU Treaty contains a number of mechanisms for dealing with what is perceived as a violation of the EU's fundamental values, and, of course, Sweden is prepared in principle to use those mechanisms on the basis of the rules of procedure that exist. At the moment, we are at the stage of the European Commission doing the review that we welcome.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-154	Mr President, I would like to That was a weak answer, Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. If you had followed the debate that has taken place among the EU Ministers in Europe over the last five years, you would have noted that economic sanctions have been a very lively political issue, where many have actually dared to think and think freely and develop their views. We can now see that Poland will receive SEK 640 billion in Structural Fund support until 2020 in the long-term budget, so Poland was the big winner. At the same time, it is a country which ignores refugee solidarity and which now goes a long way in challenging freedom of the press and freedom of speech. Nor is it any country, but it is one of the EU's largest countries, with almost 40 million inhabitants. There has been a long and clear debate on not only political sanctions but also economic sanctions. If the Red-Green Government wants to be the clear voice for freedom in the world, we must also dare to discuss it. Should EU countries be able to collect SEK 640 billion over such a long period of time and, at the same time, ignore why this Union was built and its values? Gustav Fridolin must be able to be clear there. Are you broad enough to dare raise that question? I am not saying that it would be done today or the day after tomorrow. But do you dare to think that we should move forward, so that it is not just a rather cowardly debate, as we have had about Hungary at European level, but that we also dare to get tough on it? Money talks – we know that in European policy.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-158	Mr President, I would like to Let me stress, also in response to the previous reply from Birgitta Ohlsson, that I think Birgitta Ohlsson did a very good job as EU Minister in the previous government. This work also included expressing, as representatives of the government, the best way of achieving the greatest possible result, in this case of human rights, in the examination carried out by Poland, and we have also discussed Hungary in this context. I do not believe that it is appropriate to use threats in Parliament to win domestic political points. I am convinced that Birgitta Ohlsson never did such things during her time as EU Minister, and I am not going to do so either. We have interdependence within the European Union. That is the very point of the European Union and what enables the European Union to have tools in such situations. There are mechanisms for, for example, using economic tools when countries violate the rules on which the EU Treaty is built. We are, of course, prepared to use those mechanisms if such a situation arises. However, in the current situation, in the case of Poland, there is an examination, with a dialogue with the Commission. There is also ongoing dialogue within the framework of the work of the Venice Commission in the Council of Europe, which has been initiated at the request of Poland. The important thing now is for Poland to follow the recommendations made by the Venice Commission, for example. That is the process we are in now. We have fundamental positions on the mechanisms contained in the EU Treaty, but in the case of Poland we await the dialogue and what it leads to.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-161	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to endorse the Left Party's reservation 2 on the matter.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-162	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that we in the Left Party support the Government's proposal for a new law on recreational craft and watercraft. In the 20 years since the entry into force of the current law, a great deal has happened in this area, not least as regards environmental and safety requirements. It is also positive that it is now about to become driver's certificate and age limit for watercraft, even if it is not addressed in this particular context. This is something that the Left Party has been fighting for a long time, as the watercraft cause a lot of problems and even accidents. It is important to regulate them precisely with regard to safety aspects. However, it would also have to be ensured that jet skis do not affect the water fauna. Animal life is damaged by the heavy underwater noise caused by the jet skis. In connection with the development of a new law for watercraft and recreational craft, it would be appropriate to listen from the outset to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, which states that underwater noise has a negative impact on life in the sea. It is a new aspect that one might not think of in the first place. We're making a lot of noise on Earth. This is one of the many disturbances that we're causing the wildlife. According to many scientists, we are now in anthropocene, a new age after the holocene, where man is the strongest geological force. This means that we affect nature more than nature affects itself. For example, we carry as much gravel and sand as the entire oceans with our trucks when we build roads, concrete houses and more. This means that we have to become planet managers, as environmental professor Johan Rockström coined in his Summer Program this year, which was the Summer Program that had the most listeners this year. To become a planetary caretaker means that we simply have to interact with nature. We need to think about how it works and build society in conjunction with nature. This new year I discovered for the first time how stressed the birds were at the fireworks. It is not only domestic animals that are stressed but also wild animals. We take a very large place in nature. At the same time, with climate change, ecosystems will find it more difficult to interact. Species will overwinter in different new ways, and different species will have new living patterns as they adapt in different ways to the warming. This creates shifts in the ecosystem. The entire web of life on earth is a network of different species. This reduces, so to speak, resilience, i.e. the resilience of ecosystems. This will ultimately affect ourselves. For example, it can concern our own use of nature. For example, when different species become stressed, fall in numbers, or perhaps die out, we will have to reduce our yield from the oceans. This can affect fishing as well as other food sources and cause major problems for ourselves. After all, we live by nature, although we have forgotten it because we live in a civilization where we do not have contact with the source from which we draw our resources. Therefore, when the new law is drawn up, demands should be made that jet skis should not contribute to harmful underwater noise. It is not right to refer here to the fact that there should not be a burden on the industry. In fact, we need to build economics and ecology together. They must be woven together into a whole, so that it becomes resilient and sustainable in the long run. We cannot continue to think about the short-term economy, but we must start to think about long-term resource management so that we are well together here on earth both with each other and with other species. We would also like to see regulations for electric watercraft and recreational craft developed at the same time, as they are available today. It is important that they also fall into the regulatory system as soon as possible in order to promote their development. I commend our reservation.
i-LHXrGb9BstwVHTSXKfxMkU	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Transport's report 8 on the law on recreational craft and watercraft. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected on the basis of the motion. The report concerns an EU directive to be implemented in Swedish legislation. The amendment contains rules on design and manufacturing requirements for recreational craft and watercraft. The proposal aims to ensure that the health and safety of persons and property or the environment is not jeopardised. It also means the control of manufacturers, importers and other market players to enforce and thus allow free movement within the EU of recreational craft and personal watercraft. It is a full harmonisation directive, which means introducing legislation without introducing any special additions for Sweden. For this there is a majority in committee. Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup, Left, has raised a motion that also aims to reduce environmental impact such as underwater noise and to stimulate the increased use of electric pleasure craft and watercraft. This in itself is very laudable, and many would appreciate it if things got quieter here and there. As a diver, I can testify that it would also be appreciated under the surface. The development is progressing with different types of engines and fuels. For a long time the outboard engines were the ones that released the most pollutants. But new types of engines are developed, and as you switch to new engines this changes. Our colleague Suzanne Svensson has been amused to look for viable engines that could serve as main engines for recreational craft. But it was not a successful inventory. She was not quite satisfied with walking time and capacity, as she put it. Suzanne Svensson comes from a medium-sized coastal municipality and has also looked at how it could look like with charging points for recreational boats in her municipality. The municipality has about 1,700 berths, and many who rent a boat stop come from places outside Blekinge but have still chosen to rent a boat place in Blekinge due to the proximity to the archipelago and the open sea. The marina where her family has docks is the largest marina. There are 600 seats. Most of the docks are long floating docks or fixed docks where there are landings drawn at the beginning of the docks. Half of the islands are uninhabited – it is the free outdoors that used these islands – and half of the islands are inhabited. So what do you do if you're out at sea and you run out of fuel? You can, of course, bring a dunk. But it still requires a substantial expansion, otherwise I have to ask the question: Who can refuel their boat for the weekend and leave the bridge? Then the friend of order can say that it is possible to quickly duck. Yeah, but it burns out the battery faster. Finally, this ends up in where we should invest the resources. Where are they most needed? We often discuss in committee whether it should be a question of all types of vehicle or whether we have to give priority. We usually find that priority is the one that applies. Mr President, I would like to I look forward to continuing to discuss this development issue with the industry and in committee, but I do not think it belongs in this legislation.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-185	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is one of the world's most sea-tight countries. We have one boat per eight adults in our country. This means that we have just over 900 000 pleasure boats in Sweden. Every year about 2 1⁄2 million adults spend some part of their summer in a recreational boat. The boat is important in our country. Boating is also a great way to enjoy the fantastic nature that exists in Sweden and to make use of the right of public access that few people on this planet are granted. Boating is also a billion-dollar industry in our country. With subcontractors, approximately 12 000 people have their livelihoods from the boating industry. In this context, it may be well worth remembering that boating in Sweden is probably, a little depending on how you measure, the world's safest boating life. We have different types of boating in the world, and it is therefore a little difficult to compare all countries. But among the countries that are comparable to Sweden, we can rightly argue that we have the world's safest boating life. And not only that, there are also fewer and fewer people who lose their lives at sea. It is a good development in every way. Mr President, I would like to The present proposal is a consequence of the EU leisure boat directive. The new law will ensure that recreational craft and watercraft meet good environmental and safety requirements, but also that we have better market surveillance and rules on the obligations of all actors in boating. Ultimately, this means increased consumer benefits and increased consumer protection. It is therefore good for all of Sweden's boat owners and future boat owners that we get this in place. I think it is good that Emma Wallrup from the Left Party is involved in environmental issues. I welcome all such initiatives. It is therefore gratifying that we have a good development in this area. The boat engines are becoming cleaner and cause less and less noise, which not least those who enjoy boating think is good. You want a lot of peace and quiet when you're out on the lake. It is good that we have a common regulatory framework in Europe. Sweden is far too small a country to be able to influence the environment in the big. We need to get many countries that are committed to environmental requirements, noise requirements and so on. That is good in what the EU has agreed in the Recreational Boats Directive. With this, Mr President, I call for approval of the motion and rejection of the Left Party's motion for a resolution.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-193	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing, not to say absolutely necessary, that the Parliament today has concrete proposals on its table to criminalise terrorist trips and their financing. The Moderates support the bill. We also support the committee's proposal, which includes an announcement that it should be possible to revoke or suspend the passport for those suspected of preparing or starting a journey for terrorism on probable grounds. The latter is a practical measure that can be very good in certain given situations. It is surprising to me that we do not have the government parties with us on this matter. In addition, I am in favour of reservation 2, which concerns a review of the legislation after two years because we must ensure that it works effectively. It's complicated and it's not quite simple. That is why it is important to decide right now that we are following it up. Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of December, we discussed in this House a new strategy against terrorism. It is, as in the past, an overall description of a wide range of actions and actions that are or need to be undertaken in order for society to stand stronger against terrorism. Over time, the way individuals, networks and organisations act to live up to their extreme and violent ideas is changing. A common denominator is that one wants to scare, threaten and by violence create the conditions for shaping society according to its own values – usually far from what is about fundamental human rights, democracy and transparency. I do not need to remind the House or the audience of the attacks that have recently killed many innocent people. The stories and images of terrible cruelty and total lack of empathy and respect for others upset and frighten. That is also the purpose of the terrorists. Therefore, of course, they should not be given too much space in that part. These are people who commit these acts, and they are dangerous. The task of society and our task here today is to work to prevent and combat terrorism and terrorists – to take the threat seriously. The background to today's case is the recruitment of people from Sweden to terrorism activities abroad. Nearly 300 people have travelled to Syria or Iraq in recent years to join armed groups. The propaganda and recruitment strategies over the internet are comprehensive and obviously successful. We know that some of those who have left are dead. Maybe that's the minor problem. Some have returned and traveled again. Others may return to Sweden with experience, knowledge and/or mission to use those knowledge here or elsewhere in the world. Similarly, in many other countries. Terrorism operates across national boundaries. That is why we need countries to cooperate. The UN has also adopted a binding resolution on the criminalisation of precisely terrorist travel. The House just discussed the Commission's work programme; in the EU, important work is also under way to combat terrorism. Today we have a proposal on the table that has been preceded by careful preparation. That's good. Balances are important both in terms of drafting the legislation and in terms of sanctions. There are objections on certain points; that is clear from the reservations. However, our opinion on the moderate side is that the main proposal is a good one. The difficulties will mainly lie in investigation and evidence. We also believe that there is a broad consensus on the defence of free and open society. Then we'll follow it up and see if it's effective enough and if we need to sharpen up in some corner or do something else. But it is important now to take this step and get the legislation in place. On the moderate side, however, we are concerned that the legislation may lead to less favourable conditions for the Security Service's intelligence work through information from signal intelligence. This issue has been discussed in a completely different context, as we recall in a separate opinion. There is therefore no reason to take it again here. We also note that this is a question of new legislation which criminalises acts at an early stage and which includes funding in a broader way. It's not straightforward. Therefore, there is reason to do as we do with the announcement – to decide on a follow-up and review relatively soon, so that we ensure that this, which is nevertheless very difficult, will be right. Mr President, I would like to December 10 was a big day. At that time an agreement was reached between the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats on counter-terrorism measures. It included the issue of legislation and criminal liability for travel for the purpose of terrorism and the strengthening of penalties for the terrorist financing offence. This is something that we Moderates have been pushing for a long time. The agreement contains more measures, and some are under way. We Moderates will closely follow up on the agreement, and I am a little concerned about a few issues. We agree, for example, that secret data readings should be investigated and that the directives should be decided on in March. All parties to the agreement would be given the opportunity to influence the directives. Time's fast. We are now writing in mid-February, and there are only a few weeks left until decisions are taken. We have not yet seen a draft. Can the government representative tell us when the directives come for comments and discussion? We also agreed to clarify the responsibilities of municipalities and municipalities for a structured and concrete work to prevent radicalisation and recruitment to violent groups. It includes how to meet returnees. You can follow Aftonbladet's series that has been around for a few days now. There the paper points to the reality of the situation, and it is clear that these people are returning to the municipalities. They do not come alone, but sometimes with children who have been born in the business. They have been influenced by events that we do not even dare to imagine. They come to Tranås, Sveg, Svenljunga, Borås or Stockholm and end up here. It is quite obvious that it is precisely in the municipalities that you must be prepared for how to work. I wonder: what measures has the government now taken since December to make it clear to the municipalities that they are preparing this work? I know that it is very varied and still at a stage that does not stand for the reality that we are going to face. For time-winning, I am content to address just two of the points contained in the agreement and where we are waiting for some activity. The Moderates will also continue to take the counter-terrorism work very seriously. We will follow up on each part of the agreement, and we are prepared to do more where necessary. It is important that society stands up strongly against this type of crime and that we defend the open and free society at every moment and every day.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-209	Mr President, I would like to What do we do when the same ideas that have tried to wipe out the vision of us have come back, when it starts to get into the retina of honest people, when the language suddenly changes, when man's will for understanding and trust is increasingly limited and when the conclusions come that we are so different that we can no longer live side by side with mutual respect? What do we do when it is pluralism that becomes the threat and not the monolith, when we live so segregated and unequal that stereotypical stories become the truth of the other, when prejudice becomes so deeply rooted that we finally begin to feel hatred and mobilize ourselves against each other and become convinced that we have the right by force to eliminate diversity? This was what happened in Norway in the summer of 2011. Anders Behring Breivik, who was first involved in the Fremskrittspartiet and then in the more right-wing forum Nordisk.nu was finally radicalized in his ultranationalism to the point that he performed perhaps the worst and most brutal acts of terror in the Nordic countries in modern times. Why I am bringing this up, Mr President, is because the terrorist attack is still creeping into my skin. The target was the Labour Party and the AUF, the Norwegian Social Democrats, which he claimed was the cause of the multicultural society to be fought. 69 people were murdered on Utöya and 110 were shot. Much of Breivik's ideological foundation can also be seen in the autumn attacks in Paris. The place where young hipsters, activists, hip-hopers and cultural enthusiasts of different origins and social backgrounds were targeted by the terrorist organization Daish's actions. The terrorists did not target their hatred to the right-wing anti-Muslim forces in Europe, but to the concert hall Bataclan, known for being the progressive heart of Paris with visitors of different origins and residents in different parts of the city. The conclusion of these despicable acts of terrorism is that it is the open, democratic diversity society itself that seems to pose the greatest threat to the totalitarian society that terrorist organisations and terrorists today want to create. Their ideology is based on murdering those who act for diversity or live in it. In Syria and Iraq, Daish is attacking minorities such as Jews, Christians, Shia Muslims, Kurds and ezidians in order to create the so-called pure state – an ideology not far from Breivik's or Swedish right-wing extremism. That is why the fight against terrorism today must be a fight against the crime itself, but also its fundamental causes and ideology. Internationally, it is a question of fighting terrorist organisations until they fall. We do this by participating in the international coalition that has been formed to combat Daish militarily, but also Boko Haram. We do this by promoting stability and political solutions, not least in Iraq and Syria. And we do so by taking national responsibility for counter-terrorism in the form of preventing, preventing and making it more difficult, stopping funding, participation and support for terrorist organisations. At home in Sweden, it is also a policy of social cohesion towards segregation, inequalities and inequality. But even if terrorism falls or suspected terrorists are captured, there is a risk that its ideology will survive. Therefore, one of the most important elements of the counter-terrorism strategy must be to challenge the world outlook of terrorist groups and terrorists. In the world today, it means fighting racism in all its forms and safeguarding pluralism, the principles of the rule of law and democracy. Mr President, I would like to What we are going to discuss today is the report by the Committee on Justice on special criminal liability for travel for the purposes of terrorism, which aims to create effective criminal law in order to combat the crime of terrorism. Through the proposals contained in the report, Sweden meets both the requirements of UN Security Council Resolution 2178 on foreign terrorist fighters and what follows from the Financial Action Task Force's recommendations on terrorist financing. Legislation in this area is absolutely necessary when the Act on Punishment for Public Call, Recruitment and Training of Terrorist Crimes and Other Particularly Serious Crimes, also known as the Recruitment Act, and the Act on Penalty for Financing of Particularly Serious Crime in Certain Cases, the Finance Act, are not sufficient. In order to meet the commitment in the resolution, but also the recommendations, new criminalisation and other legislative changes are therefore needed. The report proposes the following: Firstly, a new penal provision is proposed to be included in the Recruitment Act to include those who receive instructions and training with a view to using them for particularly serious crime, if the instructions are intended to promote such crime and the person in any way acts in the form of receiving such training. Self-training, participation in training in humanitarian law or reception in the framework of a military service are not subject to criminal liability, and it is important to emphasise this. Secondly, a further penalty is proposed in the Recruitment Act in which the Government wishes to criminalise the act of travelling or starting a journey to a country other than the country of nationality, if the intention is to commit or prepare particularly serious crime or to receive instructions and training to this end. Thirdly, a new penal provision is proposed in the Finance Act to cover the person collecting, providing or receiving money or other property for the purpose of travelling for terrorism. The receipt of money or other property for the purpose of promoting the journey of another person shall also be criminalised. Fourthly, a penalty is proposed in the Finance Act for the person collecting, providing or receiving money or other property for the purpose of the use of the property by a person or association of persons who commit particularly serious crime or commit attempted, preparative, conspiracy or participation in such crime. Finally, it is clear from the report that the crimes should be admitted to a Swedish court if the crimes were committed by Swedish citizens abroad or by foreigners who are in Sweden. The offences are thus exempt from the requirement of double criminality in the Criminal Code. In addition, electronic communications, secret surveillance of electronic communications and secret camera surveillance shall be allowed to be used in the preliminary investigation, which will facilitate the work of the police. Mr President, I would like to There are some reservations on the matter that I would like to comment on. The first concerns reservation 1 by the Left Party, which is mostly concerned with the restrictions imposed by the draft law on constitutionally protected rights, but also with the rights and freedoms protected by the European Convention. Against this background, the Constitutional Committee has had the opportunity to sort out the issues and, at the same time, to see what is landing in these concerns. What they have landed in is that it is important for Sweden to have a balanced legislation in order to be able to combat terrorism. They have also come to the conclusion that certain restrictions may be made to our rights and freedoms if the restriction is proportionate. The KU believes that the restriction of freedom of information and freedom of movement, which this will be about, as well as the interventions of personal integrity are necessary in relation to the benefits and benefits that can be achieved by the measures. Otherwise, both the government and the KU believe that the freedom of association is not restricted by the bill. Reservation 9 of the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats concerns the criminalisation of the preparation of travel. I call for the reservation to be rejected on the grounds that there is no need for an experimental crime, since the report itself is an early criminalisation. The report's proposal would mean, for example, that we should be able to stop people who are on an airport shuttle, while the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats want to do it criminally already to buy the ticket. It is an example of how far the differences are. But they are still not that big, because what needs to be assessed here is the proportionality of what we criminalise, how far it should go. In order to maintain the principle between our constitutional freedoms and the criminalisation we want to do, we cannot go far, but we are still going very far in this proposal. Finally, I would like to comment on the announcement by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats about the withdrawal or suspension of passports. The parties argue that they want to increase the possibility of withdrawing or suspending the passport for those suspected of preparing or starting a journey for terrorism on probable grounds. Here I call for rejection mainly because the parties' proposals are softer than the existing legislation. Anyone who is suspected, on probable grounds, of having started a journey with a terrorist purpose can, of course, with the bill to arrest. The alternative is that the person can get the passport seized, which is an alternative to detention. In addition, the Government has submitted a proposal with proposals for measures against the misuse of Swedish passports. Therefore, in my opinion, there is no reason for Parliament to make any announcement on this matter. Mr President, I would like to With this report, we intend to prevent terrorism. We do this by standing up for the society of democracy and diversity that we all cherish, but also by assisting our rule of law with the tools needed to combat crime. I therefore call for the draft decision to be approved in the report. I am in favour of reservation 13, although I will not be in favour of it, and I am in favour of rejecting all other reservations.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-233	Mr President, I would like to It may seem a little strange to ask for a reply when we essentially agree on the proposal, but there are several things to consider on this serious subject. The problem is to make a workshop and ensure that we actually stop people from travelling and recruiting. We can have a big debate on causes, connections and all the long-term, but the practical question of how to stop people from leaving is worth thinking about. It is true that there are rules where you can withdraw your passport and arrest. But it is a major problem that society seems right to be paralysed when it comes to actually intervening. When a young person is on his way and his parents are standing there wanting someone's help to do something, it would be radical to take the passport right away. More can be done in this area, and that is what we are signalling. As for the municipalities, what does the government plan to ensure that something happens? We have lists of people who have gone away and come back. We know that children are born in these terrorist camps that will accompany their parents back to Sweden. It will be a radical challenge. In December, we agreed that more should be done to ensure that the municipalities know how to work. But nothing has happened. When can we expect a result on this issue?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-238	Mr President, I would like to It feels good that many of us are anxious to overcome this problem – and above all that we see it. When it comes to work in the municipalities, there is a lot to do. The previous government appointed a coordinator working on the issues. We have increased the coordinator's mandate and resources so that he can continue to work on this issue. The investigator has put forward a proposal for a national support line for relatives so that they can contact someone and get help if something does not seem to be in line with the children. The municipalities are also followed up by the coordinator and employees with a view to presenting municipal plans for tackling these challenges. In many respects, police action is required. Säpo is in good contact with the various districts of the police organization in order to tackle these challenges. With this legislation, we are strengthening the possibility of investigation, secret interception and so on so that the police can feel that they have a mandate to sort things out. A lot of work is being done, and the municipalities are in the pipeline. Some municipalities have come further in the work, but we will of course follow up so that all municipalities take the issue seriously and develop municipal strategies to be able to handle the issue.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-244	Mr President, I would like to It is excellent that something should be done. I want to see concrete initiatives in practice. We have reports of people who have both come back and turned around and who are causing trouble in the community when they return. This is incredibly urgent. It is not to think about any plans, it is to start working. I agree that the police have an important task. The problem is that the Swedish police are on their knees, and resources have been requested. With regard to the very issue we are dealing with, the police have stressed in their referrals that they are concerned that the security police will not receive enough intelligence to carry out their mission. Then the local police, who often have to keep their eyes open, will not have the necessary information. We must be observant of this, and this includes what I raised about secret data reading, to be able to read information and communication in such a way as to have a basis for the concrete work. What I am calling for is a little more workshop with regard to what we have agreed to achieve, and one of the tasks of the opposition is to chase the government so that we implement, point by point, what we have agreed. There will be new concerns that we need to address in addition.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-249	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to make a conflict issue out of this, but when we talk about workshops, it is important to remind ourselves that the government came to an empty table in the area when it took office, apart from the coordinator appointed by the previous government. After that, we have worked hard on this issue. A national plan has been developed to try to combat terrorism, and we have worked with the bourgeoisie and other parties to find measures to combat terrorism. Today we are criminalising travel, which means that hopefully the return will not be a major problem. But we will of course look at how this legislation is implemented in the work. This is a way to get on with our work, but we're not staying there. We are continuing to develop, and there will be more measures and proposals on the table of Parliament. The bourgeoisie, and not least Beatrice Ask, can definitely expect this from us.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-253	Mr President, I would like to I agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 11 and 14. It is no secret that the Swedish democrats are calling for a tightening up of the law when it comes to most matters within the Legal Affairs Committee's review area. Strongly strengthened penalties and increased powers for the whole of the judiciary are central. In the long run, in government, we want the appointment of a police chief who wants and dares to do his job, makes tough decisions and does not turn to a left-wing liberal opinion, often orchestrated by our left-wing liberal media. We've been going on about real life sentences for a long time, sharpening the penalties for violent crimes, sexual crimes, assault crimes, such as burglary, and much more. We have proposed increased powers to curb riots that exist because the other seven parties have kept our borders fully open to criminals and immigration. We want to see the possibility of a state of emergency in suburbs and elsewhere. We want a piece of legislation and allow the use of water cannons, rubber bullets, tear gas and so on to show those who are trying to build parallel societies who are in charge in our country. Year in and year out, we have been nagging about the expulsion of criminal aliens, both through the Aliens Act and the Special Alien Control Act. All the other seven parties have been satisfied with a regime in which an overwhelming majority of the criminal foreigners are allowed to stay in the country. The latest data show that 83 percent of foreigners who commit crimes and end up in prison in Sweden are allowed to stay. We've been nagging and nagging and nagging. It is not enough that the other seven parties have voted against our proposals. They have also actively debated against us and defended a regime in which murderers get away with two or three years in prison, sometimes because they are young. They have defended a regime in which, despite convictions in five years, serious rapists are not expelled – this happened recently in Ludvika – where knife killers come out on unguarded leave after ten months and so on. On some of these issues we have now brought other parties with us. There are many examples, and we will come back to them in later debates. This includes the youth discount for 18- to 21-year-olds. We will hopefully have a majority in committee here. Today, however, it is a question of the journey of terror. I had a good time searching for terror trips on Parliament's website. For the year 2012, I got two hits, one in an interpellation and one in a protocol due to the interpellation. I was the one who put that interpellation to the then government. There was nothing else, no exercise or anything. The only party that raised the issue was the Swedish Democrats. I asked if the government considered that the current legislation on so-called terrorist travel was sufficient. I was unable to attend this debate because of obstacles. In 2013 I put the same interpellation again. Again this year, only SD raised the issue of terrorist travel. What was said in this interpellation debate in April 2013? Well, the Alliance Government felt that, in itself, Swedish legislation is relatively well-designed and in no way stands out in the negative direction of the international community. In his third speech, the Government said:"However, you can do what we have chosen to do in Sweden: have clear legal rules that prohibit the incitement, recruitment and funding of this type of activity. Nevertheless, I think that captures the problems Kent Ekeroth and I agree that we need to work on. I do not think that our experience so far shows that it would be wrong. My message, then, is that it is not primarily legislative measures that I believe are needed. ..................................................... The final speech from the Government in April 2013 said:"Our legislation is very focused on these very actors, which I think is extremely important. I believe that this legislation is correct and well fulfils its role. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I quote this debate which took place in April 2013, which was about to take place in December 2012, precisely to highlight a continuous problem in Sweden with the other parties. There is a lack of ability to analyse reality, to be honest. The Arab Spring, when the media opened up that myth, was unisoned by the other seven parties and the media. The reason why it was done with the Arab Spring, and for example the terrorist trips that no one reacted to, immigration and much more, I think is because of a combination of kindness and naivety. The two often go hand in hand. The Swedish democrats anticipated all this at an early stage. This applies, in particular, to the problems of the terrorist voyages. We tried to make a change, but we spoke on deaf ears. I continue my small search on Parliament's website. In 2014, proposals were still quite shrewd. This year, however, the Christian Democrats went along with a motion in this area, and of course the SD drew attention to it for the third year in the Riksdag. In autumn 2015, the interest in terrorist travel exploded. Then all the alliance parties suddenly presented a joint motion, and there were some individual motions. We put forward a number of motions in several different committees. Mr President, I would like to What we can say is that the Swedish Democrats have been very proactive about this, and the other parties have not. The red-greens, like the Alliance, did nothing under the previous government either. There was no exercise or action to tighten the law. If the red-greens wanted to do so, we would have had an announcement under the previous government, but we would not have. I suspect it would have been difficult, because the Left Party is not interested in doing anything at all. The Green Party at that time would probably not have been interested in doing anything either. Well, late will the sinner wake up. But it's better than not waking up at all. As the report shows, we welcome the fact that there is finally a proposal on the table of Parliament. The proposal, as previous speakers have mentioned, introduces criminal liability for those who receive training, initiates a journey and a financial offence for the person who finances a trip or who finances a person or an association. The proposal is good and takes many good steps forward, but according to the Swedish Democrats there are some things missing. We have seven reservations in the report, and thus seven proposals which the majority do not support. Among those proposals are increased penalties. It is quite common to hear from the Swedish Democrats. We want to increase the penalties for both normal and serious crimes, and we want the exception for minor crimes to be removed. There are referrals that agree with us there. We also support a reservation that the criminalisation of participation in other support functions within a terrorist-stampled organisation should be included. We do this for the simple reason that we have had that proposal in previous motions. Reservation 9, which I did not support, concerns the criminalisation of the preparation of travel. We support the reservation in the report for the same reason. This is stated in the special opinion. We have had previous exercises that have dealt with the exact same thing. We also want to see an increase in the criminalisation of terrorist propaganda. We have also tabled that proposal in the past. We believe it should be investigated. There are other countries in our vicinity, such as Germany, which have such legislation in which we can see how enlargement can take place. For example, negligence can be sufficient or specific organisations or symbols can be banned. We also have a reservation about secret coercive measures. The Security Service and the ordinary police should be able to use preventive coercive measures and obtain electronic communication for the normal level of the offences proposed. In addition to the reservations I mentioned, we have the two to which I called for approval, namely those relating to travel to the country of nationality of a person and withdrawing the citizenship of terrorists. Finally, I shall touch them briefly. The government therefore does not want to criminalise terrorist travel to a person's country of citizenship. Why? Well, their reasoning is that the right to enter a country constitutes a fundamental right and right and cannot be curtailed. What is interesting is that the government at the same time recognises that, even if such a penalty does not explicitly prohibit anyone from entering their country of citizenship, the criminalisation would constitute an act's rule with a corresponding meaning. ..................................................... That is not true, as they themselves say. It does not prevent entry. It's about punishing someone. There is nothing in international rules or conventions to prevent it. That is something we stated in committee. Other countries in the EU see it in the same way as the Swedish Democrats. You can punish people even if they go to their own country of citizenship. It's really not that strange. Imagine yourself: A Syrian citizen immigrant to Sweden and gets his habitual residence or citizenship here. The person decides to make a so-called terror journey to Syria. Then the other parties, and not least the government, mean that such a person on return should not be punished according to the rules. A full-fledged terrorist will thus receive coffee and buns from the welfare state of Sweden when he comes home because the other politicians in this House as usual overinterpret to the benefit of the criminals. The Swedish Democrats do not. That is why, of course, we believe that it should be criminalised if a terrorist journey is made even if it is to one's own country of citizenship. Several other countries in Europe seem to support this idea. Finally, there is an SD proposal that has been launched since before to withdraw terrorist citizenship. I know that Morgan Johansson has already said no to that in a Question Time. He thought it was a really weird suggestion. The other day, one was voted through in France, and the United Kingdom has done so in the past. It wasn't that strange. None of the other parties support this proposal either. They want to keep those who have immigrated to Sweden and then commit acts of terror. Why, one might wonder? In general, we see the same kind of problem as regards expulsion, which I was at the beginning of the speech. Expulsion is used far too rarely in this country. For SD, it is quite self-evident that one should be able to withdraw citizenship and throw these people out of the country as soon as possible after serving the sentence, and preferably that they serve the sentence in their home country or any other country. Mr President, I would like to It was a long speech, but it has to be worth it sometimes. In conclusion, I can say that it was about time something happened and SD led the way. We want to go further, as I have explained here. That's not going to happen today. But I am quite sure that, as with many other SD proposals over the years, we will finally see the other politicians adapting to our proposals again. That is, of course, something that we welcome.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-288	Mr President, I would like to I almost find it a little fun to listen to Kent Ekeroth for the simple reason that in every speech in each type of debate, the theme is that the Swedish Democrats have always thought right and have always made all the proposals earlier than anyone else, and no one listens to them at all. Actually, that's not true. It is interesting with the historical exposé. As far as terrorist travel is concerned, there has been a discussion. I, too, have read about the interpellation debates we had during the last parliamentary term. Swedish anti-terrorist legislation in a general perspective does not deviate in a negative direction. That is quite correct. We have had fairly far-reaching legislation for quite a number of years, as I also pointed out in that interpellation response. When it comes to the question of terrorist travel, or travel to fight abroad, we in Sweden have quite a few historical experiences. There are difficulties in the boundaries. I participated in quite a few discussions with many different party representatives on how to look at it. The task that then became the proposal that we have today has a second part about a broader perspective on travel to participate in combat abroad that is, if possible, more complicated. It's a question you have to look at. I find history interesting and that it is very exciting to read Parliament's minutes. But now it's about what we're doing right now! I have to say that it is a bit strange to have proposals such as that on citizenship, where the Swedish Democrats think that people should be taken away from their citizenship even if they are stateless. Where are we gonna put them? I read in the proposal that agreements should be drawn up with other countries where people can be sent. Who would we make a deal with? It's so unrealistic. It doesn't even make sense. I think that is a weakness you should work a little more with, Kent Ekeroth, because in your own opinion you are right on all questions.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-294	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out, Beatrice Ask, that I think much of what you in the Moderates have done – especially since you came into opposition – is good. You also did very well in the government; you tightened up some laws, even if it was not enough, and you had the right ambitions in many ways. If I may say so, I also think that Beatrice Ask was a pretty good minister in that government. There are quite a few ministers in that government that I am not very happy with, I can say, but Beatrice Ask is perhaps not one of those I am primarily thinking of. We can see that. However, I still want the story right. When it comes to going up in a speaker's chair and criticising the government for acting too little, too late and so on, I can agree with that in some cases, but the history is in fact that the previous government was quite satisfied with the rules of terror. For eight years nothing happened to them. Then I understand that it is a process sometimes, but the Alliance was still in government for eight years. I think that those who look at the debate and hear what the Alliance and the Moderates say should bear in mind. As has been said, when it comes to the Swedish Democrats' proposal to make people stateless, it is a proposal in which we have drawn inspiration from the United Kingdom. There is this bill. There are several reasons why we want to be able to make someone stateless. Among other things, the person then has no right to vote and influence in this country, which in itself is important. If you cannot expel these people, you have to keep them locked up until they either leave on their own after serving time, or they have to be locked up. However, they should not go free in Sweden. It's a key principle. As far as the realism of finding a country to expel them is concerned, we will see. I don't think that's impossible at all. There was an agreement between Gaddafi and Italy earlier to close the border on immigrants, and today prisoners from Norway are being sent to other countries to serve their prison sentences there. Nothing is impossible, and one must at least try.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-298	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I should thank you for the compliment. When it comes to whether there are countries with which agreements can be concluded, I would like to see those countries. I would also like to see whether it is compatible with the international conventions we have signed to conclude agreements with those countries that might possibly consider accepting the type of people we are discussing. So I still think it is completely unrealistic. Nothing happened during the time of the Alliance, says Kent Ekeroth. Actually, that's not true. We reinforced the police's resources, which was absolutely necessary. It is again a situation in Swedish police where the resources are insufficient. We ensured that the police finally got access to intelligence information via signal reconnaissance. We permanentized the secret coercives. We laid down the first approaches to terrorism. I can make the list very long. Of course we did a lot, but you can always do more. What is interesting, however, is here and now, and that is why in my speech I lifted up the agreement that is made with the government and where there are new things to actually check off. For example, we need to get classified data readings. That investigation needs to be set up, because we need to have a basis for it. I am concerned that the police have probably been less able to investigate the crimes that can be committed when people travel to Syria, Iraq and other places. There are a number of such things we have to work on. The problem, however, is that you focus so much on history and so little on the current situation, Kent Ekeroth. Of course, it would be tempting to ask how you intend to deal with the people who return. I think the answer is that they should be investigated and prosecuted, and there we are in complete agreement. But there are lots of problems you have to deal with to make sure to get the basis and that these people are actually handled in a sensible way. One or another may not have committed a crime either – it may be children who need support to survive.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-303	Madam President, I would like When I said nothing happened, I was just referring to terror travelers. I was not referring to the second issue raised by Beatrice Ask, which are good things the alliance government did. I also mentioned that in my first line. There are good things the alliance government did, and that is what we, when we were in Parliament, also supported to a large extent. This is the case with permanent secret coercive measures and whatever it is. We supported this because we thought it was a good proposal. However, I referred to what this debate is about, namely the travel of terror. Unfortunately, there was not so much that could have been done. It is quite correct that there is often more to be done – it concerns everything – but in this case, as was shown by the debate we had with the government at the time, I still think that it was done too little. When it comes to whether such agreements are realistic or not, it remains to be seen. Because no one has tested. We believe that testing should be carried out, and we mean, in the case of expulsion, in general, that more agreements must be made with more countries in order to be able to expel people there and allow them to serve the sentence there. This is something we have been asking for for years and in several different forms of exercise. This is central to the Swedish Democrats. We do not believe that terrorists should be citizens of our country, and we do not believe that people who have immigrated here should be given the privilege of staying. We do not believe that just because you happen to be a citizen of Syria and of Sweden, or perhaps have your domicile here, you should be able to go to Syria and get terrorist training – practice and keep on – and then come back to Sweden and avoid criminal liability when you come here. I cannot believe that none of the other seven parties support this. I had expected the Alliance, or at least some party in the Alliance, to see the point of getting caught even if, for example, they happen to be citizens of Syria. We see that as quite natural. Why should the Swedish people accept that these people are not being punished just because they happen to be citizens of Syria? I don't understand that.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-308	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. I stand by our reservation from S and MP, but for time winning, I refrain from claiming approval to it. I am very pleased that today we can actually make decisions on the issue of financing terrorist travel. I am pleased that we have at the bottom a broad cross-block agreement on this and that we can move forward together on this issue. For it is very important, also for the legal consciousness of our society, that we can create laws that are consistent with the disgust that many of us feel about terrorism. This applies regardless of where this terrorism comes from. Today we are discussing Daish/ Isis very much, but we should not forget all other terrorism. My colleague, Mr Lawen, referred to Breivik and the terrible act of terror. Further back, we can see terrorism from various ideological sides that we must not forget. It must be able to be prosecuted regardless of where the terrorists come from and where they belong, all over the world. It is therefore important that we take these decisions today. However, it is also important that we balance. The task of the Parliament and also the government is to ensure that we find the word and the balance that I often lack in the Swedish debate today. We have in Sweden a unique word that I am very proud of and which is said to have its ancestors from the Viking era. It's the right word. That mead suit you sent around in the ring would be enough for everyone. It is about balancing the extremes, and I think this is done in a good and professional way in this report. These are difficult questions. It is a question of criminalising things we have not previously criminalised, such as travel, the financing of travel and so on. This applies to the parts where we move forward and where a balance is required between our constitutionally protected rights, our individual rights and the criminal. Finding this balance is not easy. I think there is very good reasoning in the report on, for example, penalties. It is very wise and shows precisely this difficulty. You've landed right. Then it's important that we don't fall into these pitfalls. We heard earlier in the debate that there are those who always think that it is done too little and that we should put anyone in jail. This has been highlighted all along and over and over again, even when it may not have been justified. Then it is important that we actually stand by and protect fundamental rights, stick to the Swedish constitution and see the problem. Nor can we fail to move forward now and actually punish these things, for that would also be difficult. I may well agree that there are fundamental reasons for terror. There is poverty, despair and injustice. There is also a fear of restricting constitutionally protected human rights. At the same time, however, we must go further and show clearly that this is not acceptable in Sweden. That is precisely the balance that I think is important. That is why it is good that we have reached this cross-block agreement. Then we may have to move on. Various investigations are underway. We should be humble in this matter, and it is important not to drift out and act too quickly, because with such complex issues it is easily wrong. I hope that, as far as possible, we can preserve the cross-block unity and show clearly that Sweden is not a country in chaos. Today, in the public debate, it sounds as if society is in disintegration. Some forces want it to look that way. That's exactly how the terror forces work. Terror's ideology is about provoking a society in disintegration where the extreme forces can take over and serve so-called simple solutions. But the rule of law exists in Sweden. Today we are contributing to a further step in this. We make this clear and correspond in a balanced way to the debate we have in Sweden. This is what is important – to face the extreme forces of legislation and common sense and to find a balance. I believe that this proposal and the committee's report do. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-317	Madam President, I would like Legislation to criminalise terrorist travel is long awaited. Together, six of the parliamentary parties have taken a number of steps along the way to stop terrorism both here and in other countries. I would like to thank the government for having, in this case, put this in a good position. We held joint talks where everyone gave and took in a constructive spirit. In a world where the stability of democracy is exposed to violent winds from different quarters, it is important that we take our responsibilities as politicians seriously and find solutions to difficult problems. Terrorism is one of the most serious threats to democracy, to the free exercise of human rights and to economic and social development. We must do everything we can to combat terrorism, but at the same time it is important that the legislation in this area is balanced. One of the starting points in the drafting of such legislation is that we must comply with Sweden's international obligations regarding both obligations to criminalise certain acts and commitments to the protection of human rights. It may be tempting to get tough on the will to protect citizens while punishing those guilty of crime, but here it is our responsibility as politicians to take a step back, count to ten and take a few deep breaths. We must punish those who want to destroy our society but, at the same time, be careful not to produce legislation that destroys society in a different way. Madam President, I would like There are some things that this bill lacks, and one of these, I think, is a children's perspective. Many who travel to other countries to join terrorist organisations are still children. A few days ago, we read news about how children accompany their parents and lead a dangerous life in the terrorist camp. There are also those who are just about to become adults, 16 to 17-year-olds, who have been tempted by friends or on the Internet to join a bloody struggle that risks ending in a ruined life for them, for their parents and for the victims of the terrorist groups. They say parents never stop worrying about their children. When a child is born, anxiety begins that never goes away. The powerlessness that teenage parents can feel when children start to grow up seriously can be great, even if it's just that he or she is hanging out at the nearest hot dog kiosk. But how does it feel to have a child who disappears from you into a bubble of violent ideology? It must be even harder. Being the parent of a child who also takes the step of travelling from Sweden and going to a country where he or she risks committing terrible crimes and himself being beaten or killed must be almost unbearable. The Center Party wants the children's perspective to be found in all decisions taken. As it is today, parents have few opportunities to stop their child if it has decided to leave Sweden to join a terrorist group. We therefore want to review the possibility of requiring the parent's written permission for a child to go abroad. Some might object that the opportunity for children to travel is about the child's freedom and that the child must decide for himself whether to go abroad or not, but I do not really agree. Of course, there are journeys that children should be able to make without each time having the parent's written permission. A requirement for signature from the parent is not meant to stop young people living in the Öresund region from travelling to school or a ten-year-old who is going on a class trip to Åland. Legislation has to take a toll on this. On the other hand, it is important for parents to be given the opportunity to say stop if a young person is about to ruin his life. The committee has pointed out that, as a general rule, a passport application should be rejected if the application concerns passports for children under 18 years of age and the child's guardian has not given consent. A lot of things can happen in the years a passport is valid. In adolescence, many go through phases that parents stare at. On the other hand, radicalizing and going off to fight militarily in other countries is nothing to stare at. It is something most parents would take very seriously, and they would have a desire to stop the child from leaving. We must give them that power. The fact that a guardian can request that a issued passport be revoked is good, but between Sweden and a number of countries there is freedom of passport. Of course, I think this is good as a center party, but at the same time it means that the road for young people who want to travel out of Sweden without a worried parent's permission is open. A requirement for written permission from the parent would create an extra obstacle for young people who want to leave Sweden to commit violent acts. Madam President, I would like The threat of terrorism that the world has seen since the beginning of the 21st century grow must be taken very seriously. There are countless theories about why Islamic terror is growing – from exclusion to racism, from distorted religious outlook to frustrated young men's anger and from ideology to belief in doomsday or a new caliphate. All that is really required for terrorism is that someone or some are passionate about an idea and that they see violence as part of the strategy to realise that idea. Anyone who commits terrorist crimes in Sweden, for example, will in most cases be able to track down and punish, but this legislation is meant to meet those who choose to commit crimes in countries that are not rarely in disintegration. In countries where society no longer functions as usual and where whole villages may be leveled with the ground and not a Witness is alive, the situation is different. The fact that we are now criminalising terrorist travel is a good thing, but there is an imminent risk that the legislation will be difficult to apply in practice. In his referral, the Chancellor of Justice flagged precisely this and pointed out in particular that the requirements of proof may be difficult to meet. In my world, the Justice Chancellor's concern is that the possibilities for prosecution are limited extremely serious and that the value of criminalisation is questioned. The concerns of the Chancellor of Justice should be taken very seriously, as should the consequences if the Chancellor of Justice proves to be right. That is why our proposal to carry out a review within a few years is not such a bad idea. I do not want to stand here in two years' time and debate why not a single person has been convicted in accordance with the legislation we have been working together to produce. I do not want to stand here and wonder how many people have died unnecessarily because we did not manage to stick to the anti-terrorism legislation properly. If we get to that point, I would rather be sure that a review is under way and that we are on the heels of those who choose to destroy the lives of innocent people both here and in other countries by force. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 2 on the revision of the legislation. I would also like to ask for reservation 12 under paragraph 10 on the right of guardians to travel abroad by minors.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-332	Madam President, I would like Terrorism is an enormous threat to free democracy. It is a threat whether in Syria, in Paris or in Trollhättan. It is a threat to democracy, to the way we live our lives as we want, to love who we want, to live wherever we want and to think what we want. As terrorism is such a major threat, effective and smart legislation is needed that is easy to apply. Unfortunately, however, what we are seeing today is a much-pressed policy of symbolism, a policy of symbolism that is crying out for harsher action. It is easy to do so when there are serious events around the world. But the harsher ones will not prevent anyone from travelling and committing these terrible acts. It may almost sound as if we in Sweden today do not have legislation that prohibits terrorism. But that is not the case. We have legislation. It's a little complicated to use and understand. Therefore, it would be more appropriate to examine the existing legislation so that it can be better implemented in the judicial system. Although the legislation is complicated and perhaps a little difficult to use, a few months ago two men were sentenced to life imprisonment at the Gothenburg District Court for terrorism. So we have legislation that works. In June, there will be an investigation into criminal liability. Let us wait for it before legislating only harder. This proposal for a decision that we are debating today is problematic in many ways. It is about criminalising financing, education and travel. The problem is that people's actions will be criminalised on a day-to-day basis. Let me give you a few examples. Grandma decides to give money to her grandchild. The grandmother can then become a criminal if it turns out that the grandchild has friends or Facebook friends who have other friends who are involved in various associations that can be interpreted in Sweden as terrorism. Then the grandmother can become the one who has committed a criminal act, no matter what her idea was of giving money to her grandchild. This sounds very complicated and not legally certain, and that is exactly what it is not. What will also be criminalized is education. But nowhere in the proposal that we are debating today is what education really is. The only thing that is explained is that there should be a trainer and a receiver. That is how most of the communications on the Internet are today. It is one who sends a message and another who receives it. That's what we do when we email, are on Facebook or when we tweet. I do not think that is the intention, but it may be that if you are on Youtube and then open the wrong kind of email, it can be interpreted as having received an education in terrorism. I believe that we do not really want legislation that will work in this way that is legally insecure. Travelling for terrorism will also be criminalised. A person who has decided to go down and join Daish can at the airport shuttle to Arlanda repent and get off it. That person can still be convicted of crime because preparations will now be criminalised. Even the person who does not commit the crime itself can be punished. This is not good. This will mean that more may be convicted of crimes that they have not committed. Nor is it legally certain, and it is the Left Party's greatest criticism of the bill. This does not lead to laws that are easy to understand and use. Terrorism is already prohibited, and there is legislation for it. Instead of improving and investigating it, however, a symbolic fist blow is sent up to show action. We also have a political debate that focuses only on penalty scales. How much longer are we going to have for different kinds of crimes? There is nothing to prove, either in national or international research, that longer sentences mean fewer crimes. Yet this is the focus of the political debate. That is why we in the Left Party want to reject the proposal in the bill. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. I would like to conclude by referring to the Legislative Council, one of the most important referrals to this proposal. The Law Council believes that the government had an overly literal interpretation when it wrote the bill. We in the Left Party can do nothing but agree.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-345	Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor when Linda Snecker from the Left Party claimed that this is a stressed-out piece of legislation. Earlier today, we have been criticised for the fact that things have gone far too slowly, but the Left Party feels that this has been stressed out. The truth is that the question has been settled in order. The proposal has been referred to us according to all the traditions and rules that we have and are being prepared in a factual way. No stressed legislation is on Parliament's table. On the other hand, it is complex, and the balance can be difficult. It is remarkable that the Left Party only sees problems. Now poor grandmother who gives presents to her grandchild is going to be a criminal. You shouldn't be able to repent if you've started a journey and all that was. When applying the legislation, you judge on the basis of proportionality and the regulatory framework. But not in one word does Linda Snecker tell us what the Left Party wants to do to stop people going abroad to commit acts of terror. There are almost 300 people who have travelled from Sweden and who can be presumed to participate in atrocities that we can almost only imagine. What does the Left Party want to do? You call it 'cause we're throwing out a rough proposal, but that's not true. Is there any news from the Left Party about what you want to do? You dropped out of an agreement with a battery of various measures that were not only repressive but also aimed at addressing causes and working more broadly. You didn't want that. And now you are voting against legislation which, in fact, a whole world community has asked Sweden to legislate on.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-349	Madam President, I would like The Left Party does not think this is a good proposal. It is not a good piece of legislation. This will not prevent people from leaving, and that is actually the purpose of the legislation. The aim of the legislation is to create effective legal legislation to combat terrorism. What it does, on the other hand, is that it increases the length of various prison sentences to which one can be sentenced if one should be prosecuted in Sweden. We do not really think it is a stressed-out piece of legislation like that, Mrs Beatrice Ask. The proposal has been referred, and it has received an incredible amount of criticism from various consultation bodies, from the Public Prosecutor's Office, from Säpo and from the Chancellor of Justice. We have also heard other Members today highlight the fact that there are problems with the legislative proposal. The Left Party was a long time in the agreement, discussed and put forward many concrete proposals on how to shape policies to better stop terrorism. We were not there until the end, and it may annoy some, but it is also a matter of standing up for what you think is right. What we think is right is that we cannot criminalise the free thought. We cannot have legislation that is incredibly complicated to understand. The problem is that we have very few convictions and difficulties in finding evidence. That is where the problem lies, and that is why we are proposing to review existing legislation and make it easier to use in the judicial system. We will then be able to deal with the enormous problem of terrorism.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-353	Madam President, I would like At least we are clear that it is not stressed out, and that is a good thing. It is not a haws work but a solid piece of work, as best you can now process a piece of legislation. We can, of course, have a very long-term job and still end up in the wrong place. This does not counteract terrorism," says Linda Snecker of the Left Party. No, but it can stop people who are about to commit acts of terror, and it is worth a lot. A single terrorist can do a lot of damage. If we can stop anyone or anyone from going away, much is won. Of course, calling it in is a complicated task, but I dare say that the referral bodies are mainly on the wagon. Views have been made. Linda Snecker mentions the Secret Service. Their concern is as soon as possible how to cope with the intelligence work needed to prosecute and have the right information. It is not a question of not wanting that legislation. The serious objection is that it may be that there are people who hesitate to talk to the police that they suspect that a young person is going to travel because they are afraid of criminalisation. That is a real objection that needs to be assessed and balanced. But it must be seen that this legislation can prevent one or another cruelty. That's what it's supposed to be used for. And as I said, it's not a hazelnut. But the Left Party doesn't want to be there. I took part in the negotiations and I have to say that I did not understand those many proposals. However, I will go back in the notes and read on. We may need further action in the future. But I do not remember any proposals made by the Left Party.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-357	Madam President, I would like I thank Beatrice for the lines. If she is unsure, I think it would be good to go back to the platform and see what really happened during the hearing. I was not present, but the reports I have heard contain good proposals from other parties, but also very good proposals from the Left Party. We've gone a long way. We have been very willing to compromise in terms of getting to grips with the extremely serious development that is currently taking place in our society and that has been happening for a long time. With the conflicts with Daish, this is particularly highlighted in the social debate right now. That is what I mean by symbolic politics – here it is for all parties to get nice newspaper headlines and be seen in the debate to show that they are taking this seriously. It is a much-pressed policy of symbolism. Maybe it wasn't that stressful when you wrote the bill itself. But that doesn't mean we think it's good. What I don't understand is why almost all parties believe that one can deal with terrorism if one does the punishments anymore – as long as we put people in prison a little longer, things will work out. The real problem is finding the evidence. It is very difficult to find evidence of war crimes, murders and atrocities in other countries. It is extremely difficult for legislation and for the judiciary to find evidence. Here we have a major problem, and we must continue to talk across party boundaries about how to deal with the demands for proof. I read from a reservation made by the bourgeois parties that there is a risk that the legislation proposed will be difficult to apply in practice and that it will be difficult to meet the requirements of proof. We're going to solve this.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-360	Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor for two reasons, but I only take one of the questions first. The UN Security Resolution asks the nation states to take measures to combat terrorism. It obliges the nation states jointly to act against the terrorism that prevails in the world in order to tackle the global challenges that exist. How does the Left Party believe that Sweden should stand up to UN Security Resolutions, which we jointly adopt in order to tackle global challenges? How else can we act as a state if this is imposed on us? Should we ignore the joint commitments?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-362	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Lawen for the question. Our main criticism of this bill is that it is a criminalisation of free thought. This applies to people's everyday actions. Something that people may do but that they do not do will be criminalized. For example, it may be about stepping on the airport shuttle but then repent and get off. The new legislation does not help the problem of the low number of convictions and the difficulty of finding evidence. We can't get to that problem. It does not help to break or reduce the freedom of movement and information to which we are entitled under the European Convention and the form of government. There is an incredible amount of more preventive action we can take instead. I think, Lawen Redar, that you and I very much agree on the basic problem of terrorism – why it exists and what expressions it takes. But we have a little different ways of tackling the issue of how to solve it. The UN Security Council is a heavy body on which we should naturally lean. In this case, however, there is a balance between, on the one hand, the UN recommendations and, on the other hand, people's freedom of movement under the European Convention and the form of government. I believe that the European Convention and the form of government are more important in the fight against terrorism.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-366	Madam President, I would like I am critical of the attitude of the Left Party. I thought that the motion most landed in the conclusion that there are restrictions on the democratic freedoms and rights we have under our constitution and the commitments we have under the European Convention. Today, however, it is argued that this legislation is not necessary, and I must be very critical of that. It is not a question of limiting free thought. That is not what is clear from the law we are going to stick through today. No, what is clear is that we have a problem with young people who are radicalising and are being asked to travel to many different countries to fight and commit war crimes and terrorist crimes. This needs to be addressed, and we believe that this can be done by changing the legislation we have today in order to limit the possibility of travel in itself. Yes, it is a restriction of freedom of movement. But we have weighed this off, and the Constitutional Committee has also said that it is proportionate – hence my position. My next question to the Left Party is: is it serious that this legislation is not necessary? How, then, are we to deal with people trying to travel for the purpose of committing terrorist crimes? How are we going to limit it? This is a step in that direction. Does the Left Party claim anything else?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-369	Madam President, I would like We believe that the legislation that exists today is effective, although difficult to understand – it lies in different legal frameworks and it is difficult to get a comprehensive overview. It works, but it can be done better. The KU had a major debate on 3 February on measures to make society more resistant to extremism. The government writes in the letter that today there are good opportunities to prosecute those who participate in an armed conflict in different ways. And it is not possible to interpret terrorism in any other way than as an armed conflict. We have the Terrorist Crimes Act, the Recruitment Act and the Finance Act. I think they can be done better, but the way the government proposes is not the right way. The new proposals on travel and education limit people's everyday lives more than they counter terrorism. As I said, travel is not prohibited in substance. But the laws we have today in Sweden, international law, human rights and the European Convention – all of that – do not directly encourage people to travel and fight for different armed groups. More can be done. The Left Party takes the social development that is taking place today extremely seriously. However, we do not believe that these very proposals for legislative changes and measures are the right way forward. We have to work in other ways, and it is a much larger and longer debate than we have the opportunity today.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-373	Madam President, I would like The Left Party said the big problem was that it is difficult to find evidence of terrorism. However, if I remember correctly, the Left Party has, for all the years that I have been on the Committee on Justice, in principle, been against all laws and initiatives that can ensure evidence: secret interception, signalling and whatever it may be. This applies to all these tools, including what the Security Service says it wants. It is about being able to use signal reconnaissance during pre-examination, for example. These proposals have been opposed by the Left Party for all these years. Then the Left Party is talking about how we need to have better ways of finding evidence. How does that make sense? That is the first question. The second issue is that the Left Party runs the usual slogan that higher penalties do not help. Let us take a hypothetical example! If there were no penalties for anything at all in Sweden, would the Left Party still stand and say that higher penalties do not help? Or does higher punishments help if the penalties are too low? If there were no penalties at all in Sweden, even the Left Party would say that higher penalties would help. Then they would have accepted the premise that higher punishment would help if we had too little punishment. What we are going to discuss is: Do we have too low penalties in Sweden? Higher penalties will help if we have too low penalties. It's kind of in the nature of things. Does the Left Party mean that the penalties are sufficient as they currently stand in Sweden or as they currently stand for terrorist offences, for example, as they are in this legislation? The two answers I would like. Above all, I wonder about what the Left Party said about the difficulty of finding evidence, because you have been counteracting it all these years.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-378	Madam President, I would like Once again, Kent Ekeroth begins with some find-out debate in some parallel universe, where he puts different things against each other that we do not even debate today, which is not even on the agenda. But I'm not surprised. You're for covert coercives. You want to monitor more. You want to punish more. You want to do more. At the same time, you are against all authorities throughout Sweden. You were standing here in the speaker's room calling the police chief of some left-wing liberal running some kind of secret agenda. You constantly criticize authorities, and now you want to give authorities more powers to enter people's lives and to enter people's everyday lives. This, Kent Ekeroth, is the history of politics. This isn't serious. You always stand and criticize on the grounds that authorities have some other agenda and that there is a politically correct society where you can never tell the truth. You love to review others. You love to point out how other parties have behaved at the same time as you are incredibly happy that other parties have gone precisely the path of the Swedish Democrats in terms of different legislations. What's it gonna be? What's it gonna be, Kent Ekeroth? The evidence is a big problem. Yes, it is, and we must have that debate. But what has changed recently? The Swedish Data Protection Authority is very critical of SOU 2005:38. It is problematic that authorities should be allowed to place Trojans in people's computers. And why should several people be monitored when the crime is not demonstrably reduced because the monitoring is increasing and the penalties are longer? Answer it!
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-382	Madam President, I would like It's funny when Linda Snecker says I'm talking about some other debate. It was Linda Snecker who, in this debate, in a change of line just before mine, talked about the difficulty of finding evidence. It was the Left Party itself who said it. How does the Left Party mean to find the evidence? How do you find evidence if you're not going to use secret coercives, if you're not going to use signal reconnaissance and one with the other? How will the evidence be found? Does the Left Party have any new magic trick for this that nobody knows about? Perhaps the secret police and all law enforcement agencies would share in this wonderful idea, which has never been talked about. How does the Left Party want evidence to be collected if the Left Party at the same time wants to ban all ways of gathering evidence? I asked for an answer to that question. I didn't get anything. What does the Left Party mean to do? You're against coercive measures. You're against signal reconnaissance. You're against all this. How do you mean to collect the evidence? You have absolutely no idea-- yes, I can answer that question. I don't even remember what the Left Party asked, if I'm to be completely honest, because there was a lot of fluff at first. But I would like an answer to this question. You have no answers to it. You say that you want evidence, and you are precisely counteracting anything that has to do with the collection of evidence.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-386	Madam President, I would like It is again a review of how you are in the speaker's chair. This is very strange, Kent. You doubt the police. You're questioning the Chief of Police. You think that all the authorities in Sweden have a hidden agenda when it comes to how they want to do it. They are in some ligament called the PK society and will always counteract what the Swedish Democrats stand for, namely to point out in every question those who come from another country. It's your only political mission. Yet you want to give the police more authority. You seem to want to give the police more resources. The police should be able to do more, monitor more, access people's computers and listen to our phone calls. There is no hidden agenda that will make Sweden a politically correct social democratic society, which is the worst thing you know. No, this isn't serious, Kent Ekeroth. It is not serious to conduct the debate in this way. You cannot distrust our authorities and at the same time want to give them an incredible amount of more powers. That is not the way to conduct a serious political debate. And it's not who I think you belong to this time.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-388	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to put on record that we will be calling for the approval of reservation 2 and reservation 6 in the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on terrorist travel. The background to the proposals is, of course, the extremely terrible situation and developments in the Middle East. I miss a little the background to the fact that we have come to this situation, Madam President. I am, of course, listening to my colleagues. The Left Party says: No, we already have effective legislation. Why is it that we have a single final judgment since 2005? It is a single final judgment on the financing of terrorism. No, the law is absolutely not effective. In fact, on 24 September the UN Security Council – some have been aware of this – has decided on this resolution, which is binding. But here, too, the Left Party obviously chooses to stand out. They believe that we do not need to introduce this. They're calling for it to be rejected. Are these measures needed? Is it already criminalised to travel from Arlanda to Istanbul and on to Damascus, or via Beirut? No, it is not that, Madam President. That is the gap in legislation. That's why this afternoon, hopefully, we're going to criminalize it. If there is evidence that I intend to go to Istanbul and via Beirut to Syria to join the Islamic State to support them indirectly or directly and participate in their terrorist actions, it should be criminalised. The Secret Service should be able to stop me at Arlanda, Linda Snecker. They can't do that today. They will also be able to catch me if I return survivors and have received training in terrorist training. It is not criminalised today, Madam President. It is these gaps that a large majority in the Swedish Parliament today is actually trying to remedy with this UN resolution. The events in Paris and the pursuit of terrorists in Belgium show that Europe must become more efficient and tougher. It is not just a matter of tightening up the view of terrorist travel and punishment. It is also about working to prevent and prevent terrorism, radicalisation and extremism. We had only a few weeks ago a debate with the Constitutional Committee in which I participated. There we focused on measures against extremism and radicalisation. But if you listen to the debate here, it may sound like we're just talking about punitive measures, and that's not true. The Member of the Social Democrats believes that it came to an empty table. I recognize the argument; I have heard that line a few times from Anders Ygeman and Morgan Johansson. I can say that I miss them in this debate, given that they have spent a whole year at least, from December 2014 to December 2015, to market their ambitions in statements and press conferences, and so they do not show up in reality. This is the first political decision in the Swedish Parliament on the draft legislation on terrorism, one and a half years after this government has taken office. It is the first and so far only proposal that has come to the Swedish Parliament, Madam President. It is an important day, and we from the Liberals welcome the fact that we can make this position today. There was, of course, a strategy against terrorism, developed in 2012. But it was based on 20 people traveling. It goes without saying that it must be revised when we are up to 300 - 350 people. It is obvious that it will be revised when we have at least 126 people who have come back to Sweden, and where large heavy municipalities such as Malmö, Gothenburg, Stockholm and not least Örebro, who have a big problem, do not know how to handle returnees. This is also the first political decision that is part of the agreement to which the Liberals actively contributed. We welcome several of these proposals, but we have also said in the report that we would like to go further on some points. This applies, for example, to the revision of the scale of penalties for terrorism on a larger scale. This legislation meets with the particular journey in question, but if I sit in an office, in an association or in a school collecting, urging and organising five or ten who are going to go or train and provide them with uniforms and other equipment, those crimes do not meet with this proposal, we believe. That's the Liberal interpretation. We have also said that preparation for a journey of terrorism should also be punishable. I know there have been arguments against this. I know that we do not want to follow the UN resolution fully, because it actually says that preparation should also be criminalised. I listened carefully to Anders Ygeman when he last visited the Committee on Justice after discussions with the European Commission, where this point is actually on the agenda again, so we will have to follow that issue. The majority of the committee also supports one of our liberal requests to make it a little easier for the judiciary to suspend or withdraw passports on suspicion of a terrorist journey. This autumn, when this was up, the committee said no. Today, I hear from the Social Democrats that it is superfluous and is not needed. I don't know how many times I've seen the Minister for the Interior standing on TV4 and SVT or writing articles where he says that now we're also going to tighten up the passport rules and make it harder for terrorists to go, and now it's going to be easier to pull in the passports. And here, Madam President, reference is made to the bill on the misuse of passports made by the Alliance Government. However, there is not a word in that bill on passports linked to terrorism, Madam President, and then it is appropriate to mention it in this context when we talk about terrorist travel. We think it's a flaw. We welcome the fact that, hopefully today, we can send the government an announcement to review the regulatory framework on the possibility of more easily withdrawing passports. Sharper teams aren't enough. Liberals have also allocated more resources to prosecutors in our shadow budget. Linda Snecker, Lawen Redar and others: Why did you vote against last autumn when we added more money to the unit for war crimes and genocide? Why did you vote 'no' when we put more resources into doubling the capacity of the National Unit for Security Targets, namely terrorism? It is definitely to prevent, prevent and prevent people from leaving at all, but it is also a matter of having better preparedness when they come back. As several have said: If we are to achieve efficiency in this, we must have better evidence, and if we are to get better evidence, we need better prosecution capacity. We will come back to this issue.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-408	Madam President, I would like The Liberals are calling for the presence of ministers. I hope it is perfectly all right that a young Member can also sit on the answers to the questions that Mr Haddad has. The discussion is now under way, and the main point made in the speech is the passports, and I know that there will probably be an announcement on this today. The technicality of this matter is such that what all parties who want to send an announcement to the government are doing here is to soften the legislation that we already have. As things stand at present, anyone who is suspected on probable grounds of starting a journey for terrorism may be detained. The alternative to that is that the passport can be seized. What is proposed with this announcement is simply to cancel the passport. My question to the honourable Member is therefore: why do we want to mitigate this? That is what the announcement itself will mean.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-411	Madam President, I would like A very brief answer: that is not true. We do not want to delete or change anything; we want to supplement the current legislation and review and test the possibility of making it a little easier for the judiciary to withdraw or suspend passports. With this criminalisation, the possibility, the conditions for criminalisation, has already become even clearer. Then we want to see this, and it is good that we are making an announcement today. The question can be sent back to Lawen Redar : What did your party and government and Anders Ygeman mean when they repeatedly said that they should make it easier to withdraw passports for terrorists, if the opportunity already exists?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-414	Madam President, I would like What the government has done is to submit a proposal with proposals for measures regarding the misuse of Swedish passports. That is the big problem here: with this phenomenon going on in the world, there are a large number of Swedish passports at large, if you can describe it that way. This means that people can come back to Sweden with fake passports or that they hold passports that are not even their own, and we have to do something about that. It is still the case that the honourable Member is proposing something that is now being explained as a complement. I would argue that the main issue with regard to the major problem of people who are radicalised and want to leave the country must be that we can intervene in their freedom of movement, as we do with a potential detention or possibly by seizing the passport for a long time. I do not see this as an additional measure, but rather a relaxation of the legislation that we already have. Therefore, my question is still: why this bill?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-417	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Interior, and not least Morgan Johansson, has made a big show of the issue of terrorism throughout 2015 and has repeatedly appeared on television, written in the media and also said here in the debates that now we will make it even more difficult for terrorists to leave. It is therefore remarkable that in the passport bill itself, to which Lawen Redar refers, there is not a word about terrorism. These are other things such as trafficking in human beings, abuse, sales and the black market – another problem. In addition, it was not even your government but the alliance government that set it up and that before the terrorist issue was on the agenda. Nevertheless, it has been developed every time under the umbrella of terrorism by the party of Lawen Redar and the government. Every press conference on terrorism has produced this bill, but there is not a word in it about terrorism. We want to make it easier for the judiciary to withdraw passports. It can be bureaucratic today. Take this example of the 17-year-old from Linköping, where society, despite the parents' alarms, did not act. Instead, she was arrested at the airport in Austria. Why couldn't you act after a report? They contacted the police. After all, they contacted this support phone, which was not even guarded. We have proposed that it be open 24 hours a day. There a decision could have been made directly to withdraw this girl's passport if that information had been obtained. It's too late now. That is why the rules need to be reviewed.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-421	Madam President, I would like We have seen and we see horrendous acts of terror around the world. Sometimes we may or may want to believe that something is happening far away. But we are painfully reminded when we see attacks in Paris and Copenhagen. It can happen here too. The risk of terrorist attacks in Sweden is elevated, and Sweden is far from spared. Wherever a terrorist attack is carried out, Mr President, innocent people are killed and injured. An attack on open and democratic society is also an attack on us. The Islamic extremists are waging a war against our civilisation. It is a war against the values upon which our society is built. They want to create anxiety, fear, insecurity, instability and insecurity in the West as well as in the Middle East. We've seen their disgusting propaganda images. We've seen them decapitating people and smiling holding their heads up in front of cameras. Christians are systematically persecuted. They're executed when they refuse to convert. Homosexuals are being thrown out of high-rises. Muslims who refuse to support the idea of a caliphate being persecuted, tortured and murdered. The examples are too horrendous for one to really understand what kind of organization it is – to understand this terrible terrorism. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden needs to do more in the fight against Daish. We already said this summer that we would make JAS available to assist the international coalition if so requested. It has been requested by France. It has been requested by the United States. Some have criticised us for the fact that this could further increase the risk of terrorist attacks in Sweden, but we must not let fear paralyse, Mr President. Indifference is not an option. We must not become the passive silent mass that makes this possible. That is not acceptable. There must be no doubt whatsoever as to where Sweden stands on these issues. The fight against terrorism must never cease. The fight for freedom, openness, democracy and human dignity must continue both abroad and at home. That is why the Christian Democrats support the proposal for the strengthened anti-terrorism legislation that we have today on the table of Parliament and also the strengthened legislation against the preparation of terrorism. The key to combating and preventing terrorism is that the Security Service and the open police have sufficient tools and resources. One consequence of the change in law that is currently on the table is that the Swedish Security Service will no longer be able to use signal reconnaissance via the Swedish Defence Radio Institute. It is an important tool in the Security Service's intelligence work against terrorism. This signal search must not take place at the same time as a preliminary investigation is under way, which is why the Security Service can no longer use signal reconnaissance. We Christian Democrats fear that the ability of the Security Service to carry out effective intelligence work will be adversely affected. It is important that Säpo has the necessary tools to carry out effective intelligence work. It is important that evidence can be secured so that persons can be prosecuted and convicted for the crimes committed. When the House dealt with the issue of Sweden's counter-terrorism strategy, the Christian Democrats highlighted the problem in a reservation. Of course, we remain in that position, and we are developing our position in a separate opinion. We are determined that Mr Säpo must have the right tools in the fight against terrorism. This must, of course, be done in a legally secure manner. We Christian Democrats see a risk that it may be difficult to secure evidence. That is why we support the reservation that proposes that the legislation be reviewed so that the criminalisation proposed leads to more perpetrators of terrorist offences being prosecuted as well. We share the government's assessment in the budget that the Security Service needs an increase in funding. In the extraordinary situation in which Sweden finds itself, an even stronger increase is reasonable. Säpo has already averted several attacks, but it must be given more resources to analyse information that authorities have in order to prevent new attacks in our country. We believe that the proposal in the report is an important step in the right direction. It is no secret that the Christian Democrats would have wanted to go further. For example, we have proposed that the legislation on treason be reviewed so that IS warriors or others who fight for similar terrorist organisations can be convicted of treason. The report supports the reservation that the government should analyse the need for further criminalisation in order to prevent and prevent people fighting for terrorist organisations abroad. It is important, Mr President, that the penalties are more proportionate to the horrendous crimes committed in the name of Daish. In order to combat terrorism, it is not enough simply to impose harsher penalties. It's not just about that. In order to have the desired effect, i.e. fewer people recruited and radicalised, preventive work must be sharpened. For the Christian Democrats, this was an important measure in the agreement reached between several parties in December, namely to make greater and higher demands on the municipalities' preventive work. In order to combat recruitment and radicalisation, a focused and more offensive work is required in the municipalities. Mr President, I would like to This issue has already been the subject of debate in this House, and I expect concreteness and clarity from the government as to what might be required and what the plan looks like in order to get an even more effective job in the municipalities. I support the proposal and reservations 2 and 8 in the report.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-433	Mr President, I would like to The European Commission has presented a Communication on Trade for All. It may appear to be a universal and open heading on something that may contain a great deal of self-evidentness. There are many of us who think that trade is really self-evident. Free trade is self-evident, and our borders should only be a restriction when it is really needed. Being able to move services, people, goods and money across borders characterizes the best of worlds. Unfortunately, it doesn't really look like that everywhere. Sweden, in our view, should be the main voice for free trade and openness within the EU and in the world. We welcome the Commission's ambition to open further negotiations on trade agreements with third countries. One of the major problems of world trade is protectionism. Protectionism puts a wet blanket over movements that would otherwise work just fine; that works when there is no interference. But protectionism means protecting its own trade and activities from competition. It triggers a snowball effect that does not make it better for people, rather the opposite. Protectionism in the world has increased since the 2008 major crisis. The fight for greater free trade must therefore be a priority. There are changes in world trade. It has moved from having previously been very focused on physical products to becoming more and more service-intensive. A favor is always connected to a human being. It's always connected to an individual who does something. Then the borders must also be open. Customs barriers in the agricultural and industrial sectors, as well as barriers to trade in services, must therefore be combated. Barriers and national special legislation that hinder the development of digital cross-border trade should be discouraged. Trade should also be a tool in the fight for better environment. Yes, green commerce is something that the world needs to see more of. Many times it is said that the best way to make the world greener is to act less. No, the best way is to act green – right? This is also linked to cross-border energy. We can see that Europe has become more dependent on, among other things, Russian gas and oil. That is why we in the Alliance believe that when the EU negotiates free trade agreements, a specific energy chapter should be included. Food exports are linked to food imports. If we want Sweden to be a nation that can export food – good food, quality-proof food – we must also be open to buying from elsewhere. Trade is based on reciprocity. It is based on agreements, not on legislation – agreements that are voluntary. Mr President, I would like to We believe that Sweden must continue to give the Commission a broad and far-reaching mandate to negotiate a Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement (TTIP). However, during this journey, during these negotiations, there has been discussion of how investment protection in this and other trade agreements should best be designed. It is important that both individual states and investing companies feel secure in their relationship with each other. Above all, this security is important for SMEs' access to an international market. We know that those who are large are often strong and able to use their strength, if not physically, at least by virtue of being a dominant player. But trade must be developed by increasing the number of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, that can enter an international market. They are not big players who have muscles to sit up with when they run into crises and disputes with other, larger players. It is therefore very important that there is protection for small and medium-sized enterprises – investor protection. There is an appeal mechanism. It's called ISDS. It has worked just fine since World War II. There are many in this House who can testify to that. However, there has now been a proposal from the Commission that ISDS should not be part of the EU-US trade agreement. The Commission has put forward another proposal. It's called the ICS. That is a proposal which we Moderates think is not a big shot, to say the least. ICS will delay handling. It weakens the settlement of disputes. It is a bureaucratic system, and there will be a weakening of competence if a whole new dispute resolution body is to be set up. There will also be judges appointed politically, which would be most unfortunate. A new, complex and politicised system with a time-frame coupled with judges within a limited framework risks being both more expensive and of less quality than the current system. This does not mean that the current ISDS system cannot be improved. It can. However, there are some arguments why the proposed new system will not work. Firstly, from the outset, the United States has said that it is not interested in the ICS. Secondly, something happened the other week: the German College of Judges ruled that there is no legal basis for setting up the new system of a separate court. This means that this proposal is shot down. Germany cannot and will not pursue it further. We stand firm to fight for there to be a working dispute resolution. Therefore, lock us in to develop the ISDS system that has worked for 50 – 60 years! Mr President, I would like to I support the alliance joint reservation 6 and the moderate reservation 3 in the report.
i-Uxd8jkiyJGcMV7zX4PZMBn	Mr President, I would like to I ask you to accept reservation 1. The Swedish Democrats welcome a comprehensive trade strategy and believe that some selected parts of the package of measures can generate positive effects for both the European and Swedish markets. However, if we take a general view, not only of the Commission's actual proposals but also of other package of trade, energy, infrastructure or growth-generating measures, we see a recurring problem with regard to financing solutions, increased use of structural funds and socio-economic projects, and constant cost-driven solutions and fake jobs. The recurring thing is that proposals that should not generate any cost-driven effects have led to the opposite – especially for Swedish taxpayers, in our opinion. We therefore see the absurdity of generally trying to push through the trade strategy, especially since the proposals are only visions, do not contain any concrete legislative proposals or are not fully financially anchored. Furthermore, the proposals are not binding on the Riksdag. We also see the problem in the Commission's communication that this will not burden state budgets. The position of the Swedish Democrats is therefore that all points should be reviewed on these notes before decisions are taken on the matter. We also refer to our previous positions on a trade policy for growth. We have chosen to respond to the Commission's priorities and share our position, but we believe that the majority of the proposals are cost-driven and that there is no evidence of real competition and net impact on Sweden and the EU as a whole. The Swedish Democrats have a generally positive view of the digital economy, as we believe it benefits Swedish companies as a whole. However, we strongly criticise the fact that Swedish taxpayers will subsidise the development of European high-speed digital networks, including in rural Romania, via EU funds. We welcome increased trade and the fact that it is directed towards goods and services, especially in high-tech products high up the value chain. However, we would like to stress the importance of quality, equal working conditions and the adaptation of needs in general trade in services and the possibility of granting certain exceptions. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats see no general problems in supporting the mobility of managers and services in the higher segment, but our general position is that mobility should be needs adapted. This also applies to general trade in services. We have a positive view of cooperation, trade agreements and competitively neutral reliefs for European companies, but we only take a stand when actual proposals are available. At an early stage of the negotiations, the Swedish Democrats have highlighted the importance of transparency regarding the TTIP negotiating parties. At an early stage, we want to be able to present any concerns from Swedish taxpayers and the Swedish market. We want to highlight the importance of sound balance and transparency so that different sectors or areas are not seen as different priorities and cause uncertainty for investors. The Swedish Democrats believe that the state-investor dispute resolution clause needs to be updated and transparency strengthened. This means that the general needs to enter into some form. A commercial court in some form could be a solution if it is not to be a matter for an ordinary court. However, the Swedish Democrats are opposed to the fact that it would be the EU that is best placed to change this globally. However, as far as TTIP is concerned, the EU, as one of the parties, obviously has the capacity to implement it. The Swedish Democrats, like the Commission, believe that corruption undermines the rule of law and the confidence of citizens and should therefore be combated to the greatest extent. Regarding sustainable development, we would like to emphasise and prioritise a global reduction in carbon leakage. The Swedish Democrats see the importance of good trade relations and to create global competition-neutral trade agreements in their entirety, but an agreement is not automatically optimal from a Swedish point of view as the sectors and factors are many. We are partly in favour of the EU developing policies on agreements, but we also believe that the EU should focus on the internal market and give priority to solutions regarding cost-driven effects and ever-increasing bureaucracy. We also note that the EU must be at the forefront before the other global agreements, such as the TPP, are concluded. We also refer to our previous positions on TTIP.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-466	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that there is strong support for the Commission's work on developing a new trade strategy. Free trade is a positive thing for Sweden, the EU and the world at large, and through history trade between countries has contributed to prosperity and peace, while those countries that have limited their trade have slowly collapsed. The EU is the world's largest integrated market, and the free movement of goods and services, people and capital has contributed to growth and job creation, not least in Sweden. It is easy to forget that, of the EU's 28 Member States, 14 were dictatorships when I was a teenager in the 1970s – it is not that long ago – and this includes, in addition to the former Eastern bloc, countries such as Portugal, Spain, Greece and Cyprus. It wasn't better before, if anyone thinks so. Trade and open borders have not only contributed to growth and prosperity, but have also contributed to peace and security. Now that many EU countries are struggling with weak public finances, high unemployment and low growth, while people are fleeing Europe from war and terror, the European Community is being tested more than ever. The recipe against this is not closed borders that counteract the mobility that we have worked so hard to achieve in Europe. What Sweden and the EU need more of is what has made our countries successful. We need more trade and transparency in Europe, not less. The developments we are seeing in Europe are now pointing in the wrong direction and may lead to a downward spiral that ultimately challenges the good development we have had towards peace and security in Europe. Mr President, I would like to From openness to people, ideas and goods, new wealth is born. Good and stable economies are created through free competition, free trade and stable rules. Sweden, as most of us know, is an export-dependent country, which means that the 101 announced measures and initiatives that the Commission intends to present will create the conditions for Sweden to maintain the welfare society that we all want. For there to be confidence in trade policy, there must be transparency when the EU negotiates. It is also important that trade negotiations produce measures that support sustainable development, fair and ethical trade and human rights. A future trade agreement must include provisions on corruption. Corruption is a cancer that makes the building of democratic societies impossible and must be vigorously combated. Mr President, I would like to My home county Dalarna is a very strong export county with large companies such as ABB in Ludvika, Ovako Steel in Smedjebacken, Stora Enso but also smaller companies such as Fiskarheden sawmill, which may not be so small, because they have sales of 1 billion, Morakniv or Pressmaster in Älvdalen, which makes smart hand tools where 85 percent of the production goes on export. These and other export companies need trade agreements that are transparent, clear and predictable and that enable them to compete on equal terms. If these companies in Dalarna and in the rest of Sweden are not allowed to compete freely in the market through free trade agreements, this will ultimately affect the welfare of our country. Free trade is, of course, only part of the possibility for companies to survive in a sharp international competition. In this House, we also need to create the right conditions for innovation, development, establishment and export, which allow more businesses to be set up and more people to get into work. Not only are free trade agreements enough, but we must also ensure that the rules are simplified and lower costs for our companies so that more people get a job. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-476	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today the European Commission's communication Trade for All. But what exactly does trading mean for everyone? Is it even possible to achieve? In the communication, the Commission states that it wants a full trade policy that benefits virtually everyone. But is such a policy fair? Does this mean that all parties benefit equally from politics, and does it mean that more equal and fair conditions are created? The power of trade policy was taken over by the EU from the Swedish Parliament in connection with the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009. Trade policy is fundamentally based on imbalances. Strong countries, which in many cases have previously been colonial countries in history, are now, instead of sucking out other countries' assets, trading in the resources and products that other countries produce. Consumers and citizens also want it to happen in a fair way and that it contributes to an environmentally sustainable world. Several of the agreements that the EU is now signing with other countries are bilateral. This means that they are signed between the EU and another or a few other states. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) signs multilateral agreements with all countries. In its Communication, the European Commission states that it is through bilateral agreements that more countries are able to join afterwards that the EU wants to set the standard for trade conditions around the world. Instead of allowing all countries to participate, the EU chooses its partners in order to advance its positions. The geopolitical dimensions of trade policy are also increasingly highlighted. For trade, part of the international relations of countries and thus also part of foreign policy. With the geopolitical arguments being highlighted in the EU's trade policy, we see how it reinforces and increases the tension in the EU's relations with Russia but also against strong emerging economies such as the other BRIC countries – Brazil, India, China and South Africa. The question is: will there be fairer rules when the EU sets the rules for everyone else? The European Commission is run by big business lobbyists. However, the Trade Communication does not even affect the large number of lobbyists who are trying to influence the work of the European Commission's DG Trade. According to a summary made by the Corporate Europe Observatory, visitors to the meetings of DG Trade, which is responsible for trade policy, have had 88% of the TTIP trade agreement from large companies. The corresponding figure for NGOs, i.e. non-profit organisations, is 9%. Of course it matters. If nine out of ten meetings are held with big business, it is also their interests that are raised at the top of the political agenda. However, as a consequence of popular engagement and pressure, we now see greater transparency. That's good. It is the external pressure that determines when the power of lobbyists is to be reduced. In 2013, the EU and the US started negotiations on a joint trade and investment agreement, known as TTIP. The Commission's objective is for the TTIP negotiations to be completed before President Obama leaves office in early 2017, i.e. in about a year's time. The negotiations, like the other negotiations on international trade agreements, have been characterised by secrecy, secrecy and a lack of transparency. Under the pressure of leaks and the widespread criticism of civil society, the European Commission has published parts of the content. The Left Party is strongly critical of key elements of the TTIP agreement which, taken together, could lead to deterioration in a number of areas, such as agriculture, food safety, climate, environment, energy, public services and workers' rights. Our criticism is mainly directed at both the current proposals for ISDS mechanisms and regulatory cooperation, which together can become a double-lock against progressive legislation, and the current proposals to open up the public sector to further market liberalisation and privatisation. In the context of the TTIP negotiations, there has been a debate on how best to design the investment protection system. Today, the so-called ISDS clause is very often used. The investment protection and ISDS system is available in many international trade and investment agreements. It was set up after World War II in order to protect investors in trade agreements with nations that lack stable and functioning legal systems. ISDS protected companies against direct expropriation. Today, however, ISDS has increasingly become a protection against indirect expropriation. It is therefore no longer a matter of protecting assets owned by companies, but of protecting their estimated profits. Thus, companies can sue states if they believe that national legislation prevents them and their ability to make profits. ISDS has thus become an effective means of preventing progressive legislation and, by extension, constitutes a direct threat to democracy in the countries concerned. Both EU Member States and their counterparts in several of the trade agreements currently being negotiated have stable and functioning legal systems. Then there is no reason to raise disputes in international courts, as is the case with the current system. It is unreasonable that trade agreements negotiated with states with legal systems should contain ISDS clauses and should therefore not be included in trade agreements. The Left Party believes that it would be better to try to solve the simple barriers to trade between the EU and the US, such as a few unjustified tariffs and certain regulatory differences, rather than launching a huge liberalisation agreement such as TTIP de facto. The content of the agreement can have negative effects on a number of areas, and we therefore believe that the government should work to ensure that the EU leaves the TTIP negotiations. The EU's trade strategy goes far too far, and there is a clear risk that important policies such as environmental policy, consumer law and labour law will stand back in favour of the interests of big business. Today's trade policy puts agreements in trade agreements before states' right to legislate and regulate. I and the Left Party believe that this is a fundamental threat to democracy. The Commission's communication does not change trade policy in a more fair, supportive and environmentally conscious direction. In parallel with the negotiations on the TTIP, several other current international trade agreements are under negotiation. These agreements also risk affecting democratic values and the right of states to regulate. Since 1975, most of the former Spanish colony Western Sahara has been occupied by Morocco. The occupation has been deemed unlawful by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The UN wants the Sahrawi people themselves to decide their future in a referendum. However, a referendum has been systematically delayed by the occupying power of Morocco. The EU is currently negotiating with Morocco a deep and comprehensive free trade area. I and the Left Party believe that Sweden should act so that all negotiations on trade facilitation and enhanced cooperation with Morocco should be conditional on Morocco respecting international law and holding a referendum in Western Sahara in accordance with the UN decision. The Industry Committee recently had the opportunity to meet the President of Morocco with a small delegation. It was clear that the President did not share the UN's description of the occupation. He consistently called Western Sahara southern Morocco. At the same time, it was clear that the Swedish-Morocco trade is very small and will remain so. Nevertheless, we have clearly seen that the government has recently approached the Moroccan occupying power during the last official visits. The Left Party has several reservations in this area, but for time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 5.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-494	Mr President, I would like to This was a litany, oh, oh, oh... about how the world's misery can be accumulated in trade. Big business, lobbies, but exploiters! These are words that I don't think even Håkan Svenneling's ideological idol Karl Marx would take in his mouth in 2016. One can see what trade has meant for the prosperity increase in the world. Trade has provided opportunities for people to make a living and opportunities for craftsmen around the world to start their own business and find ways to get customers across the border in the country where they live. This is ecstatic and phy when the Left Party is debating in a trade debate. Before we move on, I really only have one question to ask Håkan Svenneling : Is there anything that is good with trade at all?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-497	Mr President, I would like to I live in a border region in Sweden, quite close to Norway, where I was as late as this weekend. It is obvious to me that when Sweden chose not to go to war with Norway in 1905 we chose another way – a positive way where we realized that it is better that we have a neighboring people that we like. Norway is today Sweden's largest trading partner – Germany may have had time for Norway – and we have had long-term trade and long-term contacts and international relations with Norway. I dare to say that both Swedish and Norwegian prosperity is based on the fact that we have had good relations for a long time. But what is clear in Norwegian-Swedish trade for a long time is that there have been fair conditions. It has not been about how we looked at Norway in the late 1800s – that it is the little brother country that should be part of our great power and where we should be able to suck out their oil, which we did not know they had when we released them – but that we deal with them and together exchange skills and products. However, we do not see this around the world today. We do not see that trade is always fair. Hans Rothenberg always relates trade to democracy, human rights and a lot of other good things, but I do not see that connection every time. I see that we have built up a trading system around the world that provides the same system for different parties but where fairness is not possible because the parties' conditions are fundamentally different. I see a trading system in which big companies have to dictate terms and lobbyists have incredible power over EU trade policy. I would like it to be me and Hans Rothenberg who were in power here in the Swedish Parliament, not the European Parliament and the European Commission. Then I think we could build a good trade policy that benefits Sweden's interests and leads to a fairer world.
i-VuyhY3UnLWGNoLZsPNiJrA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answers, Håkan Svenneling! It was most kind to wish that I could gain power over politics here in the Swedish Parliament. I am not so generous back, but I agree that it would be good if I, my party and my alliance friends had the power in the Swedish parliament. However, I am not so convinced that it would be good for Sweden, the world or trade if Håkan Svenneling's left party had the power. Justice – it's a word that you can obviously turn around and turn around. Surely the most fair thing must be when people can turn their own work and knowledge into someone else's. Creating products that someone wants and services that someone is interested in sharing leads to work, to making a living and to greater prosperity. You can build your own welfare in a country, and you can create a belief in the future for yourself. It is the most fair thing you can imagine – that your own work can be translated into a good life. The Left Party obviously does not think that is fair. Apparently, there are big companies that are bad. I'd like to hear Håkan Svenneling explain what makes a big company bad while a smaller company isn't. Where is the limit when a company grows and goes from being a good company to a bad company? What's wrong with lobbyists? I know that lobbyists are people – people who have opinions about different things, who declare this and who are trying to influence politicians like Håkan Svenneling, me and everyone who is sitting in this Chamber. It's democracy about something, isn't it? Fair trade is when you have the opportunity to act on fair terms, when you are not exploited, dismembered or mistreated. Fair trade is free trade. Why is Håkan Svenneling so afraid of free trade?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-508	Mr President, I would like to For me, fair democracy is when people can elect their representatives to a parliament and when this Parliament is able to legislate and regulate on the basis of the conditions it wants to create. It is not when big business lobbyists have the opportunity to know in advance, even before Members of this House, that a new law is in the pipeline, to sit in consultation, to influence and to demand that they have to be listened to before the legislation is even in place. When the legislation is then in place, they have the opportunity to sue it and then use evidence that has been produced from the public before it was legislated. This means that large companies have the possibility, through a double lock, to both influence the legislation before it is in place and then sue the states that have introduced it. We see that the terms are not the same. I also see that it would be good if we had more small and medium-sized enterprises around the world – I have no problem with that. But I see how big companies today dictate the conditions of trade around the world. It is done through lobbying and by investing a great deal of resources in influencing those in power in the direction you want. Hans Rothenberg! 63 people own more than half the world's population — 63 people! It is not an even justice in the world in terms of the resources we have. If we are to do something about it, we need rules that govern and do it fairly, that actually want us to create a better world and not suck out the resources we have in our earth. In this way, the ILO conventions will have to comply with the right conditions in the labour market. Then you need to have a climate agreement in Paris that is progressive and forward. And then you need to make sure that big companies can't put a stop to it.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-513	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6. Trade and openness undoubtedly create jobs and prosperity in our country and in other countries. We grow together as free trade demolishes walls and allows people, goods and services to cross borders. Sweden's journey from poverty to prosperity was grounded in free trade, business freedom and openness to the world around us. It is on this basis that we continue to build our prosperity. Today, Sweden is one of the world's most trade-oriented countries, with exports equivalent to almost half of our country's GDP. If jobs are to continue to grow, we must remain open to the world around us. We Liberals want to continue to facilitate trade, tear down more barriers to trade and strengthen companies' export opportunities, including through extended export promotion efforts. Free trade leads to better management of resources and faster dissemination of technology. Free trade encourages companies to improve their goods and services in the best and cheapest way. This is how smart solutions are spread, for the benefit of both people and the climate. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be the main voice for free trade and openness within the EU and in the world. The EU should facilitate cross-border trade and not build barriers to the outside world that make Sweden lose competitiveness. The EU free trade agreements should be as ambitious and comprehensive as possible. Sweden will continue to give a broad and far-reaching mandate to the Commission to negotiate free trade agreements with, for example, the US. A TTIP free trade agreement, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, will create the world's largest regional free trade area. The Free Trade Agreement will create a number of jobs in Sweden and across the Atlantic. Already today, the United States is one of Sweden's largest trading partners, with a total trade exchange of SEK 110 billion in 2012. Therefore, the Liberals are following the Commission's work on a comprehensive approach to the common external trade policy very closely and with great interest. Mr President, I would like to It is important to safeguard and contribute to a robust international trading system that ensures compliance with agreements and agreements. Free trade needs to continue to develop beyond the borders of the Union, for an increasingly globalised world and market.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-521	Mr President, I would like to The aim of trade policy should and should be to achieve as much free trade as possible. Every person and every individual company must be able to buy goods from where they want, and clear, clear rules must be in place, so that you know that you are doing the right thing. Unlike any of my Christian-Democratic Members of Parliament, I do not think it is very interesting to trade shoes. It's something I'm avoiding at the longest. It's a job you have to do yourself, and a shoe needs to sit well in order not to hurt other parts of the body. My purchase round usually means that I find an area with several shoe shops in order to get as wide a range as possible. Over the years, I have received specific requests for my shoes, and this means that not all stores sell them. My search can take longer and longer, which for me is a waste of time. In some studies of men's buying behaviour, a man is said to visit an average of one and a half stores before he strikes and trades. I can see that in the case of shoes and me that is not true at all. The more shoe shops, the better to get the right type of shoe, with the right quality and hopefully the right price. As you can see from my story, the work of shoes is not my favorite occupation. I even avoid it at the very longest. But when I do, I am happy if the range of footwear manufacturers is as large as possible, so that I find the product as I wish. Nowadays, it is not only in the local shoe shop but also online as well as the simplicity to order, get the goods and be able to pay for it that determines my choice of shoe. It would be unfortunate for me as a consumer if manufacturers from all over the world do not have the same opportunity to sell their shoes to the very store where I go or online, where I buy my shoes. Then the supply and price would be completely different. My view is that trade creates prosperity and that obstacles to goods being bought by me as a consumer are to hinder prosperity. I believe this applies to all types of goods for both individuals and businesses. Free trade is therefore something that should be self-evident and guide our efforts. Online commerce is increasing dramatically, and they see no obstacles, no borders. Furthermore, borders create barriers and problems for entrepreneurs and consumers. Mr Rothenberg said exemplaryly something that I intend to use in my speech too, that borders should be a limitation when it is really needed. That's exactly how you think it should be. Free trade leads to increased prosperity for both Sweden and the EU and all the countries with which we trade. A freer world trade with fairer and clearer rules of the game is a prerequisite for reducing the gaps between the poor and the rich countries. It is self-evident to seek to strengthen and modernise the free trade agreements that exist and to create new free trade agreements. We all know that free trade has come a long way. Free trade is an extremely important principle to uphold. Sweden is an export-dependent country that should be a clear voice within the EU but preferably within the WTO. We Christian Democrats see that free trade is a wealth creation for all the countries of the world. Entrepreneurs around the world benefit from clear, simple and predictable rules that do not hinder their ability to trade across borders. Exports account for almost every seventh job in the EU, and that figure will certainly increase in the future. Trade is becoming increasingly service-intensive, and we must take this into account in our agreements. Even sectors such as agriculture and industry have a great need for all customs walls to be demolished and combated. Our agriculture is under severe pressure, and any obstacles that distort competition for our farmers towards other countries must be removed as soon as possible. We, as Christian Democrats, broadly support what is stated in the Commission's communication. Trade should be a tool in the fight for a better environment by extending green free trade for environmental and climate-friendly goods and services. More free trade agreements increase the possibility of Swedish exports of food, among other things. The Christian Democrats welcome the EU-US Free Trade Agreement. It strengthens the world economy as a whole, but also Swedish companies and consumers' trading opportunities, which lead to more jobs. We therefore believe that it is important for the government of the European Union to be the driving force behind an ambitious trade agreement. I ask you to accept the reservation from the Alliance, reservation 6.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-533	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating trade for all. At the outset, I would like to call for the communication to be added to the document, as advocated in the committee's proposal for a decision. With the declared ambition to increase Swedish exports and strengthen Sweden's role on the global stage, the Swedish government has in the past year opened new embassies in several parts of the world. For example, in December 2015, a decision was made to reopen the Swedish Embassy in Manila. With its population of 100 million people, the Philippines is becoming an increasingly interesting market for Sweden and the EU. Of course, Sweden should be there to promote good relations and market everything we have to offer. As late as the other week, Sweden's Consulate General in New York was formally reopened. It is also a very positive event for Sweden abroad. Tourism promotion will be geared up in India and China, among others. Business Sweden is opening offices in Singapore – another example of how Sweden will have new opportunities to increase the number of jobs here at home through deliberate ambassadorship. Only by consistently working in both well-known and new arenas can Sweden promote the emergence of more jobs, while the fight for free and fair trade that does not compromise labour law, human rights or environmental requirements can continue. I would also like to mention in particular the export strategy. In parallel with the efforts made at EU level to promote increased trade, the Government allocates 130 million in the 2016 budget to implement the export strategy, which can be summarised briefly as follows. Firstly, Swedish exports must reach the emerging markets to a greater extent. Secondly, more small and medium-sized enterprises must have the courage to export. Thirdly, Swedish goods, services and systems must reach higher up the value chain. Fourthly, Sweden's attractiveness for investment, skills and tourists must increase. Fifthly, global trade must be kept open. Every attentive listener hears that it fits very well with what is set out in the Commission's Communication on Trade for All. As we have heard in several of the previous speeches, there is a gratifyingly broad majority on the importance of trade and perhaps even more precisely on free trade to promote positive development here at home in Sweden, but also in a far larger perspective. The European Commission also notes that trade is one of the few tools to use and promote without burdening the state budget – a reason almost anything. Increased trade strengthens employment, increases growth and increases investment. Given that Sweden is a small and export-dependent country, but also ensuring that exports from the EU account for one in seven jobs, the Commission's priority for trade is both sensible and balanced. The ambition of the Commission's trade policy is to improve conditions for EU citizens, consumers, workers and self-employed people. Not only that, but also the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the poorest in the developing countries of the world, should be promoted. Growth, jobs and innovation should be promoted, but under conditions compatible with the European model, and also meet the fears of those who feel themselves a loser to globalisation. The Commission also states that the EU's trade policy should be effective and transparent. The latter is to be achieved through, for example, provisions on SMEs in future trade agreements. The above is clearly compatible with Swedish interests of balanced free trade agreements, which meet high targets at several levels. We are all facing a future where more free trade agreements will be more transparent. For example, Sweden has just pushed for the transparency initiative that appears in the TTIP negotiations to be part of all forthcoming agreement discussions. This is positive for all parties and is particularly true of what the review notice also mentions, namely that both trade and investment agreements should be value-based. This clearly means that trade should not be at the expense of ethics, sustainability, human rights or justice. Moreover, corruption must of course be combated at any given time. In the so-called tube for future negotiations lies, among others, China, New Zealand and Australia. Free trade is basically something positive for Sweden. Sweden has been, is and will continue to be, of course, a clear, strong and clear voice in both the EU and the WTO for open and free trade. It is unspeakably important to combat protectionism as far as possible. Protecting free trade is wise from both a Swedish and a global point of view. Free trade is a wealth-creating force. Trade with non-EU states must be on an open and equal footing, and free trade must also be fair trade. We Social Democrats have long defended free trade but have also consistently promoted better conditions of different kinds. We therefore welcome a reformed and more transparent dispute resolution. Transparency is a good thing and benefits both jobs and well-being through transparent, clear and predictable conditions. Trade is also an excellent tool in achieving the red-green government's goal of Sweden having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Therefore, I would also like to touch briefly on the reformed dispute settlement mechanism. It is well worth remembering which actors are in the context under discussion, namely the EU and the United States. In both Unions, there is currently a majority of policy makers working towards a free trade agreement between the Unions. Neither party has any interest in reducing political influence or disassociating itself from decision-making. Mr President, I would like to We should also remember that increased trade also provides increased knowledge about your trading partner. Trade provides the opportunity to demand products produced under conditions that involve radically improved living conditions for fellow citizens in other countries. In the case of TTIP and TISA, it is also important to bear in mind that no final contract exists. Since the negotiating mandates were issued, little has happened in substance. Politics must relate to facts and to negotiated matter. What is discussed in advance is and remains hypotheses. Do we need a reformed dispute resolution? Yes, Sweden and Swedish jobs are clearly winners on greater transparency and more predictable conditions. Sweden has a history of relatively broad consensus and commitment to the importance of safeguarding and developing free trade. The fact that this support is partially relaxed in the context of the TTIP discussion is regrettable. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to remind the House that Sweden is a small and export-dependent country with many forces. The desire for Swedish goods and services is great, both within the European Union and outside it. It is a craving that we are going to face through a common Union trade policy that does not co-operate with either democratically adopted decisions, workers' rights or climate and environmental objectives either here or elsewhere. Many of the Swedish forces have been affected. But it can be reminded that Sweden is at the forefront in several respects, not least in terms of digital participation. I myself come from Gotland, a county that really is an example in prioritising fiber expansion in order to facilitate both housing and entrepreneurship in both urban and rural areas. Of course, the expansion of fibre also facilitates entry into new markets for small and medium-sized enterprises. Free trade is a road to more jobs and increased growth. Through open processes, where the benefits of globalisation are exploited and its disadvantages can be curbed, free trade agreements can be concluded where far more than multinationals become winners. We are all winners of free and fair trade.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-560	Mr President, I would like to It was almost beneficial to hear Hanna Westerén talk about free trade, especially when compared with what a representative of one of the parties in the government paper said a moment ago. Here it is about that there is a craving for trade with Swedish companies and goods. It was not exploitation here, but there were positive notes here. We appreciate that, and that's good. As for the differences between the Moderates and the Social Democrats and between the Alliance and the Red Green in the field of trade, they are not, as with the Left Party, deeply ideologically different. Here it is more about technology, different solutions and different views on how to handle certain situations and certain phenomena. It is always possible to discuss and arrive at. We cannot go around the question of the dispute settlement mechanism, that is, what is known as ISDS and where the Commission has put forward a new proposal for a solution. As I mentioned in my speech earlier, the German College of Judges postponed that proposal last week. There will be no German backing for this. It will not be able to be pushed forward. I would therefore like to ask Hanna Westerén how the government sees the possibility of moving the matter forward. Will you go back to Sweden running the line that it is ISDS and the dispute resolution that applies? Is there any other adjustment you intend to make? How do the Social Democrats and the government simply view the fact that the Commission's proposal cannot be implemented with its basis?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-564	Mr President, I would like to Hans Rothenberg said we should not go around the issue. On the contrary, and that is precisely why I touched on the issue in my speech. I also think it is important. It is true that the map will of course change and be drawn if any of the points made by Mr Rothenberg on Germany's position on ISDS. However, it is not up to me to decide how to proceed. Of course, this will be the subject of discussions in the European Union, and I remain a strong supporter of openness and transparency. It is my hope that it will be part of the continued discussion and that there will be a line that Sweden continues to pursue.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-566	Mr President, I would like to As far as transparency and transparency are concerned, we are in complete agreement. This should be the case, and this has been the case with the dispute settlement mechanism that has been in place for 50 – 60, soon 70, years – since World War II. It has been a system that has allowed companies to secure their entry into other countries, to act there, to face problems and to protect and protect their own rights. It's a protection. It is a protection for Swedish companies, large and small. It is a protection for those who invest in another country where the laws of their home country do not apply. We should be very happy that the opportunity has existed and that it will be in the future. The dispute resolution has also developed over the years; it does not look exactly like it did in the early 1950s. Virtually all free trade agreements that have been concluded around the world have this clause included. Now there is a strong left-wing lobby in Europe that has chosen to focus precisely on dispute resolution and that is the sore point. Basically, one is free trade unfriendly. You do not want a trade agreement, because you do not like free trade. That is why the dispute resolution is being postponed and is beginning to say that it is not transparent and is not fair. Unfortunately, the Commission has put its weight down there and therefore put forward this proposal. In fact, I think that the response from the Social Democrats in the Swedish Parliament is guilty when it comes to giving a hint of how Sweden will behave. I have debated this with the Minister for Economic Affairs before, but it is actually time now. You must have an idea as to whether it will be the old ISDS you cherish. What's the line you're going to have?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-570	Mr President, I would like to I would like to return to a word I believe that Mr Rothenberg mentioned both in his main speech and in his reply. It is a word that also comes up for me, and it is a lack of inadequacy. It concerns the assessment of the current dispute settlement mechanism and the fact that the proposal for a new one has to do with its perceived inadequacy. It is not open enough and not transparent enough. As far as the answer is concerned, what exists until now is the mandate given by the House in the negotiations. So what we need to do is follow developments closely and possibly ask for new mandates. However, I want us to remember that there are many of us who are in favour of free and fair trade. There are many of us who try in different ways to ensure that jobs are increased and to reward companies that behave and develop trade in different ways. There are also many of us who are keen not only to get the large agreement in place but also to have a dispute settlement mechanism that is as functional and as conducive as possible. I would also like to emphasise that I cannot make any new promises or pledges in this House. Instead, it is a question of monitoring developments closely and remembering the mandate given so far.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-573	Mr President, I would like to So today we are discussing the European Commission's new comprehensive approach to the common external trade policy. The Commission has high ambitions. It wants EU trade policy to aim, inter alia, at improving the conditions for EU citizens, consumers, workers, self-employed, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises, as well as the conditions for the poorest developing countries. Sustainable development shall be supported, and trade shall be fair and ethical. Human rights should be supported, corruption combated and so on. All of this is of course very urgent and in line with the government's good ambitions for trade to be both free and fair. Of course, for this to be more than fine words, action is required. Much is also being proposed. Everything good for everyone, always and everywhere, is easy to say but not easy to achieve in practice. Conflicts of interest arise in all such complex contexts, and trade is of course no exception. How, then, should the rules be designed to ensure fair trade? Not all market players have the same opportunities and conditions, and the global market is completely different from local markets. Of course, transnational giant groups and small, local companies cannot be compared either in terms of their ability to compete in different markets or in terms of their ability to assert their interests in politics. Money gives power, and politics must balance and give voice to others than those who have a lot of money. It's called democracy. It is also important to remember that free trade is actually quite threatened. Free trade for whom? It is important to design regulations and laws so that they do not contribute to one's freedom becoming the other's freedom. For example, if it is possible to compete with wage dumping, poor working conditions and reduced environmental requirements, there will be freedom for those who are forced to accept poorer health, private economy and the living environment in order to get a job and make a living. In addition, companies or countries with higher standards and morals are at risk of competition. Common standards for, for example, the environment, health and animal welfare are at risk of reaching the lowest level. Even if higher requirements are maintained in one or more countries in a trade agreement, those producing under the higher requirements are still in danger of being eliminated if cheaper products from countries with lower requirements are allowed to be sold in the country. Indirectly, therefore, also reduces consumers' freedom to choose products. These are things we must have with us when we talk about trade agreements. This also applies to the free market – in fact, we are moving towards a blue plan economy when more than half of all trading takes place within large groups in the world. It's worth recalling. Yes, the risk is always imminent that the greatest and strongest will benefit when the rules of the game are laid down in trade agreements, for example. Take the disputed dispute settlement mechanisms many of you have been into, where trade agreements have given companies the opportunity to bring states to justice in special arbitration tribunals outside the ordinary legal systems – and no, Hans Rothenberg, it has not been and is not transparent processes although some of the results have been announced publicly afterwards. These companies have been able to bring States to justice if they believe that the State has acted in such a way that their investments and profits have been adversely affected. It has proved unsurprisingly beneficial to large companies, especially really large ones. There has been a review of known cases up to 2015 that has shown this. It's not really surprising. Small businesses do not have the financial resources to run the process. And states lose, of course, because that is how the system is set up. There's an imbalance. States and civil organisations have no similar right to bring companies to justice, so there is no equality before the law in this case. It is therefore not surprising but very important to take into account in the important work to realise the good ambitions of free and fair trade and dispute settlement mechanisms that remain within the framework of democracy and do not harm the environment and health and the possibility of legislating to protect them against all this. Trade and trade policy must not be directed towards satisfying unilaterally the interests of companies and industries with the means to make themselves heard. The interests of citizens, of people, must be a top priority. This applies to all of us who live in Sweden and everyone who lives in other countries on earth. I would therefore like to emphasise the importance of the policy for global development, PGU, which was decided by the Swedish Parliament in 2003. It involves all policy areas contributing to fair and sustainable development, something that is truly dear to our government. The UN's new goals for global sustainable development are also a major step forward and a very important basis for policy, including trade policy. This tool must not least we in Parliament and the government ensure that we make the best use of it. The agreements currently being negotiated by the EU cover so much more than trade, and the government states that these agreements must not interfere with democratically adopted decisions and must not restrict the possibility of taking them in the future. Environmental and health protection, human rights and democracy are values that must not be subordinated to profit interests, and Hanna Westerén was also clear about this. Mr Rothenberg highlights another aspect, the security aspect and the dependence on Russian gas and oil, which we really need to rid ourselves of for a number of reasons. But the solution, of course, is not to facilitate the import of climate-distorting fossil gas and oil sand products from Canada, for example. There we see worrying signs that directives have been loosened up in the EU to make it easier. But the solution, of course, is to expand renewable energy on a large scale and free us from all fossil dependence. As I said, many issues that remain to be clarified in relation to these trade agreements are very important, and you have touched on many here. Perhaps the most serious recently highlighted is the German judges and prosecutors who question dispute resolution mechanisms and investor protection ISDS also in the modified form that the European Commission is now proposing. They believe that the system is not needed in the EU and the US – it is the rule of law we are dealing with here – and it is also contrary to EU law, which many here have been dealing with. Of course, heavy criticism must be taken very seriously, and then it must take the time required to sort out how disputes are to be resolved in a good way. Let me also mention small business networks and organisations in different EU countries that are merging and are now asking legitimate and worried questions about how TTIP can affect them. These are questions that must be answered before a decision can be taken on an agreement. I will come back to this in the next debate on the report on trade policy. I support the addition of the European Commission's communication to the documents proposed in the report.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-591	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Annika Lillemet said in her speech. However, the Communication from the European Commission on which the opinion relates states that the EU wants to enter into a deep and comprehensive trade agreement with Morocco, called DCFTA. My question is: why does the Green Party want to deal more with Morocco, which does not follow the International Court of Justice's decision to hold a referendum on the freedom of Western Sahara?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-593	Mr President, I would like to As I said, trade can be beneficial and harmful. I cannot ask the question well enough to say whether it can be of more harm or benefit and whether it is the best way to resolve the issue. There is now a process in progress in the UN on Western Sahara. We simply choose to let it work and hope that the problems can be solved so that the people of Western Sahara get the freedom that all peoples deserve.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-595	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Annika! It would be interesting to hear you reason a little on how you view trade versus democracy. In the case of Western Sahara they had an armed struggle. It concluded a peace agreement and came to the conclusion that now there will be peace and then we will allow the people to have a referendum if they want to belong to Morocco or that Morocco will become its own state in the form of Western Sahara. It was stated by the International Court of Justice in The Hague that this is the best way forward, and that is the line taken by the UN. But now that the EU is coming forward and saying that it is prepared to open up to trade with Morocco – it even had a trade agreement that has been beaten up in the first round of the European Court of Justice because it included occupied areas – the EU is supporting the occupying power that prevails. It undermines the opportunity that the Sahrawi people have to create their own country and have people vote if the country is to become a democracy of its own. Is it really the case that the EU's increased trade with Morocco leads to more democracy in Western Sahara and that it does not lead to Morocco becoming stronger in its occupation?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-599	Mr President, I would like to Of course, there is no question that can easily be answered. But now we have chosen to allow the UN to work in this way. The UN and the EU are pushing for momentum within the UN. If it does not turn out to be a way forward, we will have to reconsider it. I guess you always have to do that in politics.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-601	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't going to ask for a line at Annika Lillemet. But I was apostrophated so many times that my fingers were itchy. However, I have to correct some of the misconceptions that exist about the dispute settlement mechanism. Obviously, Annika Lillemet and her party, the Green Party, have also gone on the myth that dispute resolution is a way for companies to sue states without any reason. That's not how it works. That's not why it's here. This is a mutual dispute settlement agreement, which means that states should be able to seek a difference from a company if they want to. And a company that invested in a state should also be able to defend its right if the state changes the conditions dramatically, as happens in some cases. There are nations that get a different political majority and that think that expropriation, that is, nationalisation, nationalization – confiscation to use a known concept – is a perfectly good method of using against investing companies. That is why there is a dispute settlement. And the experience of dispute settlement over decades has shown that it is about even beard. In one case, it is in the company's favour and in the other case in the nation's favour. It is not the case that companies are completely unprovoked and unjustifiably able to sue a state and challenge its legislation. This is a way for another country to have legislation different from that at home to be able to have its rights tested, and it is mutual. Why is Annika Lillemet so afraid of this?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-605	Mr President, I would like to It's not mutual at all. It is companies that can draw states before these arbitration tribunals. The fact that states have been given the right means only that they have not been able to pay. It is not that they can get money from the companies through the arbitration courts. And it's big companies that use this system. There are also market solutions for this; it is possible to insure itself against expropriation and the like. And, of course, it is also a question of the rule of law. It is one thing if there had been states where the judicial system does not work. It is clear to me that democracy and democratic decisions are more important than companies being able to make money from anything. Let me take the famous example of Philip Morris suing Australia when Australia introduced neutral cigarette packets to protect public health. The process lasted four years. True, Australia won, and Philip Morris did not receive money for not selling tobacco in the way they wanted to. However, it had serious consequences. It impeded similar legislation in New Zealand, for example. It had legislation in place, but it felt that it did not have the economic muscles to run such a long-term process. They have therefore waited with their legislation, which I think is completely unreasonable. I would be happy to send Mr Rothenberg the study in which this has been examined. I don't see how you can say it's on equal terms. I honestly do not understand how Hans Rothenberg can mean it.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-612	Mr President, I would like to A dispute arises when two parties disagree. It is not the same as a state's legislation being pushed off the ground. This is a way to resolve a dispute when a state comes to grips with a company. A company is a collection of individuals and not something abstract. People work there and have their livelihood there. They get their livelihood from this, and they pay taxes. That's what companies generate. When a company in Sweden encounters restrictions of competition, such as procurement issues, the company must be able to defend its rights. In Sweden we have a legal system with administrative courts and other bodies that handle it. It's safe and secure. There is also a system internationally to deal with it. The problem is that when Swedish companies, whether large or not, cross the border and act in another country, they and their staff are less protected. If there is no dispute settlement mechanism, these events may be threatened. Experience shows that there are about even beards in the outcome, that is, as many for the benefit of nations as for companies. It is a rule of law that I, as a moderate and we from the Alliance, will not compromise. That is why we have sent a clear directive to the government to stand up for this, for Swedish jobs abroad and for a dispute resolution. Swedish companies are worth it.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-618	Mr President, I would like to As stated above, Germany's largest organisation for judges and public prosecutors considers that this type of separate legal system is not needed and that it is also contrary to EU law. Let us discuss dispute resolution mechanisms and investment protection. The government has said that it may be needed in some form but that it must not restrict the right to make democratic decisions. This is where we differ, Hans Rothenberg. It is interesting that our ideological differences come to light. It is important for everyone who listens to this. Democratic decisions must be made without the risk of being sued. There are other cases, for example with insurance companies in Slovenia. Philip Morris, however, is the most famous, and it was outrageous. For me, it is more important for the state to make laws to protect public health than for Philip Morris to make more money selling tobacco to people. I look forward with excitement to the further work that will have to be done on the dispute settlement mechanism. I expect that it will work out in some good way so that we get something that is legal for everyone. I don't understand the rule of law either. In fact, we have the rule of law, and we have functioning legal systems in the European countries and in the United States. If there is something that needs to be improved somewhere, then the rest of us should not short-circuit our democracy for it, but improve where it is needed. There can certainly be shortcomings in one country or another. We will see, and then we will have to take a stand when we have a ready-made proposal.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-625	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to what the Commission wants with this, you can think that it is gold and green forests. There should be an end to corruption, everyone should make money, the environment should be better, democracy should be better and all the problems should be solved only we get a trade for everyone. That is nice, but we who have been involved in trade policy for a while know that there are still some conflicts of interest. It is therefore important that we find out what happens to other interests when we try to act as freely as possible. We have to make sure that the whole thing becomes the golden edge of existence in the forest rather than that we choose the forest or the gold. This case and the next one go into each other. The next item concerns some motions, of which I have raised one, about transparency, transparency and understanding what we do when we approve trade agreements. It has become a little more complicated since some of us were young or started politics. I have included a traditional investment agreement, Sweden's agreement with India. It's a pretty thin booklet. I have also included the modern type of trade agreement. It's two full binders. There is a certain difference not only in scope but also in content. Then it's good that we know what we're doing when we approve of it. In the 1,600 pages covered by the agreement with Canada, there are rules on how the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate should send its proposals before they have come to the government to send it to the US chemical industry to review them and make comments before Kemi even publishes them for open consultation in Sweden. It says how to approve each other's various tests and protocols, such as crash tests. It's great if we don't have to do two crash tests for the same car. The problem is they're different. European cars will be safer than American cars if they follow the European crash test protocols compared to the American ones. If we are to approve each other's, we want to know what its effects are. As far as the treatment of animal carcasses is concerned, there are different rules in the EU and in the US, but we would like to be able to trade with each other. How should we deal with these differences? We need to understand the consequences of the differences. It's not just one way. Swedish Christmas must contains a dye that is harmless to everyday life, but if you buy the cheapest variant of this caramel colour it contains a carcinogenic substance. Here California has stricter limits than the EU, and California wants to feel safe that our Christmas must is safe. When we are going to make these demands, the document often refers to legitimate demands. This needs to be investigated. What is a legitimate requirement to achieve environmental objectives? What is a legitimate requirement for labelling? What is a legitimate expectation of an investor to do something? Perhaps you change government and tighten up a chemicals law, and then the legitimate expectation disappears. Are you going to get compensation or not? How does this affect legislation? All of this is incredibly important that we investigate so that we get a trade for all forever. That is why, on the subject of the next dossier, it is very important that we carry out an impact assessment. I am pleased that the committee thought it was a good idea. You could have approved the exercise, but don't give a damn! I am pleased that we have unanimity in that we need to know what we are deciding on in this complex world. That is why I am grateful that we all agree that we should find out what happens when we move from a thin trade agreement to a lunta. Mr President, I would like to We will have reason to come back to this.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-639	Mr President, I would like to Since 1950, wars between the nations of the earth have become fewer and fewer. According to a new study, the reason is the growing trade between countries. Behind the study are researchers at Stanford University, California. They have reviewed developments in the world since the Napoleonic wars, i.e. from 1816 onwards. They note that a dramatic change took place after the end of World War II. Since then, the number of independent countries on earth has tripled, but they rarely go to war with each other. The number of deadly conflicts from the 1950s to the 2000s was only one tenth as many as in the period 1816– 1949. The number of people who died in war between countries has also fallen radically. Since 2003, when the United States invaded Iraq, virtually no wars between states have been fought in the world. The question is why the last wars, the intergovernmental conflicts, have almost disappeared. According to the researchers, the answer may not be quite what one would expect. According to the study, the most important factor has been the growth of international trade. In 1950 – 2012 the share of exports of GDP grew from 7 to 25 per cent. Moreover, the number of trading partners has grown enormously. The latter is at least as important as the overall level of trade. According to the researchers' analysis, countries with extensive trade are not only closely linked to peaceful relations with their closest allies. They have also been less inclined to go to war at all, including with countries with which they have had ideological conflicts. Since 1945, the military alliances have been far more permanent. This has partly been the effect of the fact that, since the Second World War, the world has gone from being multipolar with several different power blocks to being bipolar with only two major power blocs, NATO and then the Warsaw Pact. This, combined with the deterrent effect of nuclear weapons, had a war-absorbing effect. But it's not enough for an explanation, the scientists say. Without extensive trade, perhaps the postwar era would have been a period of many more deadly conflicts than it had been. Mr President, I would like to I thought it might be good to start with some science. Now we can move on to our political discussion. The report deals with a number of motions on trade. We from the Moderates and the Alliance believe that Sweden and the world need more free trade and fewer walls. Protectionism is one of the greatest threats to a well-functioning world trade. Protectionism is also one of the biggest threats to Swedish exports. Sweden should be the leading voice in the EU and in the world for free trade and openness. If Europe builds barriers to the outside world, we lose competitiveness and damage our own development. It is worth thinking about in these times. We and our parties want to facilitate trade and strengthen companies' export opportunities by continuing to tear down trade barriers while protecting consumer protection and the environment. Our proximity is the North. In this context, we attach great importance to deepening Nordic cooperation by dismantling border barriers and facilitating people's ability to move across borders. In these days when it has become more difficult to travel between Sweden and Denmark, trade is obviously also affected. That is something that, despite the current situation, is not good. Nordic cooperation is unique due to both its proximity and its political consensus. It should promote increased competitiveness in a globalised world and be a good example. Furthermore, the EU's free trade agreements should be as ambitious and comprehensive as possible. There the WTO acquis is already under heavy pressure. It is therefore important to safeguard and contribute to a robust international trading system that ensures compliance with agreements and agreements. Did anyone think there might be a dispute settlement mechanism? It is urgent that as broad and deep a trade agreement as possible be put in place as soon as possible between Europe and the United States. Sweden should be a driving force in the negotiations. Mr President, I would like to There are many new interesting markets and new countries opening up. Why do they do that? Well, they've changed their political systems. They've gone from solitude to opening up. If not full-fledged democracies, they have in any case shown an ambition to open up. Some such countries are Cuba and Iran. It has turned out that trade actions in the former case have not been as successful as was originally thought and to some extent hoped for. Here there is a fantastic opportunity for Sweden to be able to develop its trade. It is not least with regard to the Persian diaspora and the element of people who have grown up in these countries that can help to create trade relations. Food and services are often interrelated. Food is an area where Sweden has enormous potential. But it also requires that we can buy food from other countries. Trade is mutual. If we want to sell our cabbage roots to another country, we can also buy pig's feet from another country. We must be prepared for this. It's a rewarding and a take, but you pay in between. That's what trade is. We have criticised the government in the past for forgetting services. Services are today an incredibly large part of the value content of most exported goods. Services need to be included to a greater extent and taken into account. Services have a different trade logic. They are often linked to people having to move and be elsewhere and perform the services. Mr President, I would like to Trade is an important tool in the fight for a better environment. It is not possible to do this simply by tightening up legislation, but by removing tariffs and barriers to trade, we can also extend green free trade for environmentally and climate-smart goods, services and technologies. Sweden should therefore promote the establishment of a green free trade agreement. With an increasingly troubled environment, energy security issues are becoming increasingly important. Increased free trade in energy and energy technology is a prerequisite for getting rid of European countries' dependence on, among other things, Russian gas and oil, as I said earlier. Energy security should therefore be a priority in trade negotiations. When the EU negotiates free trade agreements, a specific energy chapter should be included. Mr President, I would like to I will say a few words about the European internal market. The EU is the world's largest integrated market. The increased mobility of goods, services, people and capital made possible by the EU has contributed to growth and job creation, not least in Sweden. However, many countries need to take strong action to clean up their public finances and reform their labour markets as well as their bureaucracy. It is also something that would benefit trade within Europe. In order to ensure the long-term survival of the Union, we believe that more is required of what once made the Member States successful, trade and transparency. National boundaries mean less and less. International cooperation is crucial for creating a good environment for growth and entrepreneurship. One of the EU's greatest benefits is that intra-European exchanges of goods and services have been freed from many barriers to trade. Let us take care of this. Furthermore, in order for the internal market to develop, we believe that the Services Directive should be broadened and should also include increased mobility in several sectors. Mr President, I would like to We of the Moderates and the Alliance are behind all our reservations. I would like to ask here for the benefit of time only for reservation 1.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-661	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 2 and 12. The Swedish Democrats are fundamentally in favour of free trade and global trade agreements as a whole. We believe that Sweden, both within the EU and in international fora and in the WTO, should work towards open and free trade and counter protectionism. Few things would harm our industry more than if our trading partners were to start restricting or otherwise preventing or costing international trade. In principle, we advocate that Sweden pursues a free trade-friendly approach both as a nation and within the European Union. As a Member State of the European Union, we are part of the internal market. However, in some respects we are critical of EU membership. However, although the conditions for EU membership should be discussed in the future, we still see that Sweden will remain part of the EU's internal market, like Norway and Iceland. Sweden as a nation must constantly develop the right conditions to be an attractive country for industrial companies. The Swedish Democrats want to promote healthy competition and thus non-distorting rules both nationally and globally. We do not believe that large export nations and economically heavy nations should act as protectionist and provide market support and distortive subsidies to their own industry. The Swedish Democrats are positive about Swedish competitiveness and intend to continue to strengthen the Swedish industry's export opportunities through good trade relations and world-leading products, especially in high-tech products high up the value chain. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are generally in favour of the EU-US trade agreement, the so-called TTIP agreement. We believe that this will strengthen Swedish industry by removing both tariff and non-tariff barriers, but also by preventing the emergence of new barriers to trade. The Swedish Democrats take a positive view of the USA's stated indications of transparency, participation and responsibility. Our hope is that developed standards will steer towards already existing trade mechanisms in the WTO agreements. However, the agreement contains a great many factors, and the complexity of the technical and non-tariff barriers is evident. The Swedish Democrats see the importance of looking more at those areas that have the greatest opportunity for regular work than trying to find common denominators for all sectors. In addition, there is a need for an understanding that certain regulations are difficult to reconcile due to different government structures and different product regulations. We believe that a common lowest denominator for the different sectors should generate returns, increased market integration and, to some extent, protection of national interests and that trade relations with third countries should not deteriorate. As regards the performance of the various sectors, we would like to point out that forecasts already drawn up are just general estimates. Reports showing which sectors or regions benefit from the trade agreement are uncertain. Although our general view is that the agreement as a whole is positive in terms of industry's export opportunities, we want to flag certain clauses in the agreement. The Swedish Democrats believe that the ISDS dispute resolution clause should be taken into account as to how it will be designed in the final agreement. A dispute resolution clause of a pure NAFTA model is something that the Swedish Democrats cannot support. We see shortcomings in today's traditional aid. It risks placing countries in dependency on subsidies despite the fact that many developing countries, especially in Africa, have growing markets. In order to lift these countries in the long term and to put an end to the dependency on subsidies, it is also necessary to help self-help through entrepreneurship and trade. The Swedish Democrats want to help Swedish companies invest more in developing countries. More businesses and increased entrepreneurship lead to more jobs and increased tax revenues for aid countries. We also want to promote many small entrepreneurs in developing countries. This applies not least to women, whom it is important to support with, for example, education and micro-loans. There are already examples of activities that support entrepreneurship, including Swedfund, Business Sweden, the Swedish Export Credit Board and the Swedish Institute. This is something we want to prioritise and further develop into an area of our own, which we call development trade. Linking trade and aid to each other is something that the Netherlands has already implemented.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-672	Mr President, I would like to Free trade and free movement are an integral part of economic growth in a world that wants to develop and see growing economies and declining poverty. It comes very well from open borders and free movement, and that is something that we in the Center Party want to strengthen and see more of. From openness to people, ideas and goods, new wealth is born. Good and stable economies are created through free competition, free trade and stable rules of play. For an export-dependent country like Sweden, it is not possible to neglect the importance of trade for our country's welfare and our strong economy. Exports of goods, technology and know-how are crucial for Sweden's future. As a small country and a small economy, we are also extremely dependent on imports. Thanks to a functioning trade, we in Sweden have access to technology and goods that we are not able to produce ourselves. Since we are a trade-dependent country, it is vital that we are not satisfied and satisfied. It is therefore important that Swedish industrial policy creates the right conditions for innovation, development, establishment and export. In order for Sweden to become even more competitive in terms of both setting up a business and attracting foreign investment, political decisions are needed that reduce costs for companies – not the other way round. For the Center Party, this is a trend that is constantly present in our policy. An ambitious policy for entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and innovation is a prerequisite for job creation. The government we now have in Sweden has a will and put forward its fine words, but lacks concrete policies that strengthen trade and business. The recently presented new industrialisation strategy is once again a fluffy strategy that can be added to the series of so-called offensive initiatives that the government has presented. It is investments that make no difference in practice. Behind these efforts lies the real policy, as can be seen in the government's large tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship that are directly harmful to Swedish industry. However, I would like to take this opportunity to praise the government for one thing: it is good to highlight the important role of forests in Sweden and the transition to a bio-based economy. The Center Party has long highlighted the role of forests, and it is good that the government also sees the value of this. Here too, however, the government must make concrete proposals so that we do not lose momentum in the transition process. Mr President, I would like to For me, there is no doubt about the positive effects of trade on employment and a stronger economy. It's obvious. But there are also other aspects of trade, to which I would like to devote a few minutes. 2015 was in many ways an important year for the global climate. The countries of the world managed to reach agreement on a new global climate agreement, and now it is up to all the countries of the world to act accordingly. Poverty in many countries remains one of the world's greatest problems. But thanks to free trade and growing openness in the world economy, many countries in Asia in particular, but also Africa, have gained economic growth and prosperity. However, if climate change continues, this economic development may stagnate due to floods, droughts, soil degradation, water scarcity, refugee flows and other conflicts that may arise. One of the obstacles to the economic development of many poor countries is the dumping of world food prices because other countries have government subsidised production aid. Too low prices have made it difficult to invest in modern agricultural practices, and poor countries' capacity to produce food and biomass has thus not been exploited. Mr President, I would like to The EU is the world's largest integrated market. The increased movement of goods, services, people and capital that has enabled growth and job creation in the EU has been fantastic. However, the EU and its Member States face major challenges. Many Member States are struggling with weak public finances, high unemployment and low growth. To ensure the long-term survival of the Union, more is required of what once made the Member States strong: trade and transparency. The Centre Party wants to open up the internal market further, in particular with regard to the creation of a digital single market with strong net neutrality. The EU must also open up more to the outside world and actively work towards establishing more global free trade agreements. In many poor countries, the environmental requirements of industry, agriculture, mining and other activities are very low and put workers, local people and the international community at great risk. Some activities are so risky that they should not be carried out, as their damage is irreversible. It is not just about climate, soil degradation, the depletion of ecosystems and the spread of environmental toxins, but also about the development of bacterial resistance to drugs and antibiotics. It is therefore an important part of free trade that public and private purchasers raise their environmental requirements and support the governments of developing countries in building environmental legislation and regulators. Swedish companies can, through their investments, their technology and their know-how, make demands that contribute to sustainable development. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, the EU-US Free Trade Agreement is being negotiated, the aim of which is to deepen economic cooperation between these two regions. The Center Party is clear that Sweden should be the driving force for an ambitious Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement between the EU and the United States. I can line up several advantages with TTIP. The main aim is to stimulate both the EU and US economies through increased trade in goods and services and increased investment. But I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of proper protection for the environment, health and animals. For example, the US and the EU have different chemicals legislation, and there are major differences in the rules on antibiotic use. In the United States, hormones and antibiotics are used to speed up and stimulate growth in animals. In order to maintain healthy and safe food, good environment and animal science, it is important that the overuse of hormones and antibiotics in the United States does not weaken and loosen the rules in the European Union. It is important to stress that regardless of the region with which a free trade agreement is negotiated, it should not lead to lower levels of health, environmental and animal welfare and safety. Just as today, consumers and citizens on both sides of the Atlantic should feel completely safe when choosing goods and services. Free trade gives consumers increased choice and lower prices. We in the Center Party are convinced that free trade is compatible with strong environmental and animal protection. Mr President, I would like to I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-689	Mr President, I would like to In the debate on Swedish trade policy, the waves are high these days, as we have heard today. On the one hand, the Left Party stands up for a transparent, transparent and fair trade policy, and on the other side, I see it as being the Moderates who want maximum free trade, especially for big business, as I understand it. In between, we can draw the other parts of Sweden on a scale. But the question is no longer whether you are for or against free trade. No, in my opinion, the question is what kind of free trade we want. Much of the debate is about the risk of expropriation of a company's resources and assets by the state. Historically, there has been concern about direct expropriation, but recent ISDS moods have been about so-called indirect expropriation. Direct expropriation means that the state goes in and seizes private property. Indirect expropriation means that the investor remains the owner but the value of the investment, as a result of various government measures, falls or completely disappears. However, the interpretation of the concept is controversial and it is not always clear in which cases indirect expropriation or state measures are involved where companies are not entitled to compensation. There is support for investors to be entitled to compensation for indirect expropriation both in Swedish legislation and in the ECHR, but the forthcoming trade agreements will strengthen this right to compensation in the event of indirect expropriation. This may mean that the State becomes liable more often. State-owned Swedish Vattenfall is involved in such a dispute. They first sued Germany for a case involving Hamburg and the city's decision to impose stricter environmental requirements on the Moorburg coal power plant owned by Vattenfall. The case ended in settlement. Hamburg was forced to withdraw a great deal of its environmental requirements. But the story doesn't end there. Now, the European Commission has brought Germany before the European Court of Justice for failing to comply with EU environmental legislation in the conciliation process with Vattenfall. The European Commission considers that Germany and Vattenfall have not done enough to minimise the negative impact of the coal power plant on fish life in the Elbe Elbe, from which the power plant draws its cooling water. This shows that the mood for indirect expropriation risks lowering environmental requirements and not complying with existing environmental legislation. Therefore, the government should instruct appropriate authorities to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment of major trade agreements such as CETA, which we heard Carl Schlyter talk about before, and TTIP. The ambition of these new trade agreements is much greater than the thin, traditional trade agreements with, for example, India. Furthermore, the CETA agreement with Canada contains many details that are important to study. In addition, for the first time, market access is described as so-called negative lists, i.e. everything is automatically open to competition if there is no exemption in advance in a defined list. This differs from previous free trade agreements which instead specify what is open to competition, and if any new sector or service is added that has never existed before in our society, it is possible to regulate it or liberalise it according to the state's own wishes. The Left Party believes that the TTIP agreement negotiated between the EU and the US with its current content can have major negative consequences. We think it would be better to try to solve the simple barriers to trade that exist, as a few unjustified duties and certain regulatory differences, rather than launching the enormous liberalisation agreement that TTIP de facto is. The content of the agreement and the negative effects it may have on a number of areas mean that I call on the government to work for the EU to leave the TTIP negotiations. A key aspect of TTIP negotiations concerns cooperation on regulations, future legislation and standards. The European Commission therefore wants to establish a so-called regulatory cooperation body. The regulatory cooperation body will be composed of representatives of EU and US regulators and will serve as a forum for cooperation on new rules and review of existing rules. In the process, various stakeholders, so-called stakeholders, will be consulted, including large companies and companies. The image of the European Commission's proposal for a regulatory cooperation agency is available in the USA and is called Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OIRA. It's a unit under the White House. OIRA was established in 1980 and has the task of reviewing laws and regulations before they are implemented. A report from the Center for Progressive Reform shows that big business lobbyists regularly use OIRA to influence legislation and regulation in a business-friendly direction. Progressive legislation has been repeatedly blocked, particularly in the fields of environment, health and safety. According to the Commission, when a new law or regulation is being prepared, industry must be informed so that proposals can be made for design. If a company is dissatisfied with the effects of a proposal, the determining authority must agree to a dialogue with the company concerned. For example, if the chemical industry indicates early on that a new rule may be a problem, it may try to stop or affect the rule at the planning stage. New laws and regulations should always be subject to an impact assessment to show how they affect trade. Any barriers to trade or investment must be accounted for. Examples of such obstacles may be more stringent environmental legislation or the defence of labour law principles. Industry can then use the same impact assessments to point out different barriers to trade in an appeal. The European Commission's proposal for regulatory cooperation means that any legislation that industry believes goes against their interests will be made more difficult, delayed or even stopped. If the proposal becomes a reality, companies will have a great deal of power over the design of rules, standards and laws in both the EU and the US. Another agreement, which we have not highlighted very much today, is the international agreement on trade in services, TISA. It took off in 2013 and is still going on. The negotiations today involve 23 parties of which the EU is one. In the negotiations, the EU represents all the Member States. Overall, TISA negotiations involve more than 50 countries. These countries account for nearly 70% of all trade in services in the world. The aim of the TISA Agreement is to reduce regulation and increase the privatisation of trade in services. The agreement covers all services other than air transport and services in state activities such as police, military, courts and other official activities. The aim is that as many areas of service as possible should be covered by the negotiations. The agreement includes, among other things, the so-called Ratchet clause, which means that services once privatised cannot be re-regulated or re-publicised. TISA negotiations began quietly and with great secrecy. However, a leak via WikiLeaks revealed that the draft TISA agreement should be kept secret not only during the ongoing negotiations but also five years after the agreement has been signed. In line with the growing criticism of citizens, trade unions and other social movements, the EU – the Commission has published information on the agreement, including the Commission's proposal for content. The TISA negotiations take place alongside multilateral negotiations in the WTO, thus excluding several of the large and rapidly growing emerging economies such as Brazil, China, India and South Africa. As a result, the agreement can lead to continued imbalances in the world between rich states in the North and poorer states in the South. The Left Party is critical of TISA negotiations. If the agreement becomes a reality, it will increase the control of public services by global big business, thereby hindering national governments' ability to regulate and share ownership. The agreement is also expected to reduce the ability of governments to pursue social, economic and environmental objectives, and it risks hindering the necessary regulation of the financial sector and could be a disaster for climate change. I am therefore very concerned about the consequences that a possible agreement may have for Sweden, the European Union and the rest of the world. In view of the major negative consequences of the TISA agreement, the Swedish Government should work to ensure that the EU leaves the TISA negotiations. Developing countries need to have access to modern environmental technologies in order to slow down their own emissions and at the same time develop. The Left Party believes that technology transfer would benefit from a change in patent law. Innovations in renewable technologies, agriculture and data modulation to predict weather are often concentrated in companies in the rich world. When developing countries today want to develop renewable energy technologies and sustainable lifestyles, for example by building wind turbines, they must either pay expensive patent licences or use old technologies where patent law has expired. Developing countries today simply cannot afford the most modern and environmentally friendly technologies and are therefore often forced to use old technologies. The Left Party therefore believes that the Riksdag should urge the Government to work in international climate negotiations to ensure that green technologies that combat climate change should be granted the same exceptions under the TRIPS agreement as life-saving medicines have already been given. Progress has been made in the context of climate negotiations in Paris. These advances are important, but in my view they are insufficient to solve the problem of inefficient and expensive technology transfer to poor countries. The text of the agreement does not mention the removal of the most central obstacle to technology transfer, i.e. patents and intellectual property. Instead, the parties rely only on good intentions and the Technology Centre in Copenhagen. It won't hold. As far as funding is concerned, there is no concrete figure in the text of the agreement itself, and the USD 100 billion per year mentioned in the climate agreement is therefore not binding on international law. We have a number of reservations in this area, but I would like to support reservations 4 and 7.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-713	Mr President, I would like to These were interesting words that were heard: expropriation, leaving negotiations, limiting. These words are heard in a debate in the Swedish Parliament when we talk about how trade can develop, how trade can be an opportunity for Sweden to grow, create more jobs, increase prosperity and help build on Swedish welfare. It is extremely important that the trade agreement with the United States is implemented. Let us remember one thing: the United States is one of the world's most protectionist countries. There is so much concern about their borders that there are high tariffs on products imported into the United States. There are quota restrictions and standards that make it difficult, almost impossible, for smaller companies producing garage doors, for example, to enter that market. That is why it is a good thing that the EU and the US are creating a free trade agreement that removes quota limits, lowers tariffs and creates common standards so that more people can enter that market. I would like to ask Håkan Svenneling: Why does the Left Party never mention protectionism in trade discussions as a threat, as something that is bad? Why do you never mention that trade can be a tool for bringing peace? As I mentioned in my speech, there is research showing that trade has a peacekeeping function. Why don't you ever mention it? Why do you see nothing but the thunderstorm that's getting out of the sky?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-717	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the USA is an important exporting country for Sweden is entirely agreed between me and Hans Rothenberg. The United States is top five in Swedish exports. This means that we think it is important that the barriers to trade between Sweden, the EU and the United States are overcome. We really should tackle the problems that exist and see if it is possible to find good and appropriate solutions so that SMEs could export to the US market and vice versa US companies export to Sweden. But it is a long way from launching a huge liberalisation agreement such as TTIP de facto, which means that large companies can question all rules on environmental law, labour law and other matters. I'm not prepared to do that. There are examples in the US agreement NAFTA. The United States has now been sued because President Obama has decided that Keystone XL – the major oil pipeline that would go through the United States – will be stopped because he has signed the climate agreement in Paris. Obama says: We cannot achieve our climate ambitions if we allow the oil pipeline at the same time. Then he goes straight to a lawsuit. Lawyers and lawyers are after him to sue the United States for having climate ambitions. I don't want it that way. I am concerned about protectionism and about some countries that behave badly in markets around the world. Swedish companies are allowed to meet unfair conditions. We must stand up for Swedish values and ensure that free trade prevails. But you don't do that when you hand over power to big business. There are positive elements to trade, and I believe that in the long term it can lead to peace. But I am probably not quite as positive as Mr Rothenberg in that it automatically brings peace. There I see, for example, the EU's increasing rapprochement with Iran. This is an important issue that should be addressed in the area of human rights.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-722	Mr President, I would like to Then it was lucky that Håkan Svenneling was not born a hundred years earlier than he did. There was no peace in the world at that time. At that time, trade was limited, and it was a much more troubled world than the one in which we live today. I note that Håkan Svenneling said in his reply that one could solve some simple trade barriers with the United States. What are these simple barriers to trade? Yes, it is customs duties, quotas and standards. That is what this whole free trade agreement is all about. But Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party want the EU to leave the table and not discuss this. There will still be high tariffs, quotas and standard restrictions. There will be no possibility of discussing labour law. Many Swedish companies are out in the world and are good examples. The Industry Committee was in South Korea not long ago and saw how one of the major Swedish companies was an example and offered good working conditions and parental leave. This is left out without any possibility of influencing. It is also not possible to put forward aspects of consumer law. This is what a free trade agreement means. And I would like to say to this House, to the President and to all those who follow the debate that Sweden can be part of the European Union and have the opportunity to open up its market to the world's second largest economy, the United States. The United States will then have the opportunity to trade with the EU without restrictions, and we can get the benefits from that. It is something that builds our future prosperity, our prosperity and that we need to develop. I find it sad that the Left Party always sees only limitations. Why are you so afraid of trade?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-727	Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely not afraid of trade. I have said in previous debates that I would be happy to buy my Converses shoes cheaper in Sweden compared to what they cost today because of customs duties. It is quite unreasonable that products which are currently exposed to competition and sold in such large parts of the world do not have lower tariffs when they are sent so much between Europe and the United States. But the difference with TTIP is that it also introduces regulatory cooperation. Even before the Swedish Chemicals Agency is going to present a proposal to us politicians, American companies should have the opportunity to influence that legislation. If we were to legislate on something here in Sweden that would be good for the environment, labour law or even say no to an oil pipeline like Obama has, then we risk being sued as a state. Sweden has never been sued, but we have been involved in far too many lawsuits regarding state-owned companies, such as Vattenfall. I'm not prepared for that to happen in the future. Mr Rothenberg paints a picture that trade has led to peace in principle throughout the world. It feels a little apart to use that kind of entry into the debate when we see what is happening around the world. It is true that democratic states do not open war with each other. It's very unusual. I have to get Hans Rothenberg right about that. But we can see that the level of conflict has increased in the world. Above all, there are large flows of refugees. If one constantly believes that it is trade that will solve all the problems, then human rights in China should be in place a long time ago. The trade that we have with China today is much greater than when I was born. When we increase trade with Iran which does not respect human rights, which executes trade union leaders simply because we want them not to build nuclear weapons, then it is doubtful whether we are contributing to a better world. Then we also say to Iran: Sure, you do not get nuclear weapons, but it is perfectly okay that you execute union leaders. It is such a trade that I am concerned about when one does not look at what is best for human rights and a good environment.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-734	Mr President, I would like to For the Liberals, an international market and free trade are the cornerstones of society. That is why we want to see more free trade and less protectionism in Sweden, in Europe and in the world. In my previous role as an entrepreneur, I was well aware of how inhibiting export and import barriers can be, how these barriers can mean the crucial difference between success and failure for a company. The fact that our country stands for an open and investment-friendly entrepreneurial culture is essential in order to safeguard our growth and thus ensure that we continue to meet our commitments to a common welfare. An open business environment between countries is thus a fundamental factor for future jobs and the welfare of the future. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a small country in a big world. We built the country strongly during the 1800s and 1900s thanks to a varied manufacturing industry, an industry that still thrives in many parts of our country, not least at home in Trollhättan. Despite this proud and strong export sector, we are in many respects dependent on imports, not only for consumption but also for supplying the export industry with raw materials and components. Our exports and imports are closely linked, and in order to ensure growth and prosperity, it is important that we can import the goods and services that we need. Equally important is that new industries' digital and climate-smart products and services can be exported without the innovation and job creation being stifled by international trade barriers. Free trade in most areas promotes both parties and not unilaterally the stronger partner. The ability of international trade to generate growth also in the so-called developing countries, that is, less developed countries, must therefore not be underestimated. The growth we have seen in Eastern Europe since the enlargement of the European Union is a shining example of how the abolition of tariffs and the free movement of capital and, above all, of individuals create prosperity even in countries that have been plagued by low growth and poverty in the past. In order to increase European integration and further develop our own economy and the economies of the other Member States, the internal market should be promoted and further strengthened so that we face the future together. Mr President, I would like to The liberalisation of the economies of developing countries not only increases the prosperity of each country but also gives individuals greater opportunities for development and self-realisation, which is central to us liberals. All people should have the opportunity to develop their full potential and not be hindered and restricted by government or intergovernmental intervention. To tear down barriers in world trade is therefore not only of interest to Sweden and Europe, but also to those countries and individuals who are not yet living in the prosperity that the liberal market has created in us. That is why Sweden must be a strong voice in favour of a liberal trade policy and push questions in the WTO and other trade bodies to promote this approach towards the nationalist and protectionist currents currently in the world politics. A free trade agreement with the US is a step in the right direction. Sweden should therefore continue to be a driving force within the EU for the EU to conclude this agreement without delay, which simplifies trade across the Atlantic and enhances European integration with the world's largest economy. While we Liberals are very much in favour of the TTIP, we see the importance of carefully drawing up the agreement so that it does not restrict decisions taken democratically. Over the last 100 years protectionism here at home and in the world has declined significantly and prosperity has increased dramatically. In between, there is an undisputed connection, which I believe is spelled free trade and liberalism. Of this, Sweden, Europe and the world need more, not less. Mr President, I would like to We are still in favour of all alliance reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 1.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-743	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the European Parliament voted on the direction it wanted to take on the EU's negotiations on the TISA service trade agreement. The position is a way for the European Parliament to influence the EU, so that the outcome is as close to what the European Parliament wants to see. It should then approve the negotiated trade agreement or reject it. There were quite a few partial votes, and they were quite even. It separated several times only a few votes. One of the votes was that all parties to the TISA agreement, which includes 50 different countries around the world, would ratify the eight conventions of the UN body ILO on the right to a good working environment, including the right to sign collective agreements. The Liberals' representative in the European Parliament, Jasenko Selimović, voted against the proposal on ILO conventions as standard. My question is: Why are Liberals opposed to people having a good working environment?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-745	Mr President, I would like to I thank Håkan for the question. Unfortunately, I have little knowledge of the context or the background to Mr Jasenko voting in the way he did, nor of the report as such. What I consider troubling are the views that Håkan and his party represent regarding trade and protectionism in these contexts. Like my predecessor, they cannot see the benefits of a transatlantic trade agreement and want to counteract it. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot answer the question.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-748	Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, the L iberals did not win. The proposal for ILO Conventions to apply to all parties to the TISA negotiations and for ILO Conventions to be ratified won by barely three votes in the European Parliament. Let us hope that the European Commission will listen to this proposal and that it will work better to ensure that trade union and health and safety rights are part of the trade agreements. It's very important to me. Much of the criticism I make in this debate is that this kind of convention is not respected in the negotiations being conducted. I think the Liberals should consider why they do not want to protect the working environment for people in 70% of all countries in the world that are acting within this agreement, but instead vote against this type of proposal.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-749	Mr President, I would like to I can make it clear that we are, of course, behind labour law and that the social conditions are maintained for workers around our planet. We have tried to promote this in our report and in the answers we have given. How you then design it can look different depending on the context and country and what perspective you see it from.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-750	Mr President, I would like to The objective of trade policy should and should be to achieve as much free trade as possible. Every person and every individual company must be able to buy goods from where they wish. Clear and clear rules must be in place, so that you know that you are doing the right thing. You can choose to see things in large lines or in small lines. I choose everything as usual to try to see things in the small, because what works in the small usually also works in the big. The possibility for companies and private individuals to trade is very limited in terms of both sales and purchases. It is limited in that it is not small mountains you should cross to be sure that you have done the right thing and that everything has gone right, but it is quite large mountains. I run an e-commerce company, which in the best of worlds buys all its goods within Sweden and sells them within Sweden, which is easiest for me and does not involve any hassles. The best of worlds, I say, because that's what's easiest for me as an entrepreneur. These are our systems built for. But buying goods from the EU's internal market and then selling them within Sweden's borders increases an entrepreneur's difficulty in ensuring that all taxes and permits are in the right place. As a company develops, there is a need for different suppliers and different markets, and new problems arise. Soon they will be buying goods from the rest of the world and trying to sell them within the borders of the EU. I can say without exaggerating that it is a patient job that is behind the development of a company so far. It's not human what kind of problems can be created. I call on Members to write down on paper what problems they think may arise for a company that wants to trade within the EU and make purchases from the rest of the world. I'm sure I can make that list twice as long. Nowadays, both addresses and bank accounts are being created across Europe to make it work as smoothly as possible, to make it as right as possible for all parties and to obtain all the necessary permits. I believe that all the mountains that are to be climbed in order to be able to do this means that people refrain from running businesses. I believe that this is why we are closing down, not because companies are doing badly, but because it is complicated and because we have such barriers in terms of trade. We know that the growing companies are creating the new jobs. We know that our future of low unemployment is in the hands of people who actually have the time, the power and the courage to create new growing businesses. Can we then help to remove the obstacles between countries and give these entrepreneurs less and less mountains to climb before they can do what they want, that is, sell their goods and try to run a profit-making business? We Christian Democrats can see no other way than that, as a nation, we are pushing for the creation of an effective internal market, an open trade policy within the EU, a strengthened multilateral trading system within the WTO and an increase in trade between Sweden and other countries, and an increase in foreign investment in Sweden. The EU is now doing solid work within the framework of BEPS to protect the tax bases of European countries. And the EU rules on taxation should be harmonised as far as possible in order to avoid tax evasion. This is a measure that I naturally welcome. It is a question of ensuring that conditions of competition in the field of taxation are as comparable as possible. Those who are doing well and following the intentions of tax legislation should be able to feel reasonably confident that no one else will gain a competitive advantage due to aggressive tax planning. These rules are now being developed in a relatively large degree of agreement and at a rate that allows us, as legislators, to feel a little worried. There is also a strong enthusiasm about these rules, which will ensure that they protect their own tax bases and get their systems in order in the EU as far as possible. This work continues in the OECD, and it seems to go fairly well with it. I believe that the same zeal and enthusiasm should be given to companies and people's opportunities to trade with each other. As many obstacles as possible must be removed, and predictable rules of play aimed at promoting trade must be established. The positive glasses should be on. We are in favour of the government promoting free and fair world trade. We are also confident that the government will work to remove barriers to trade while protecting the environment, employees' interests, human health and democracy. The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership is a trade and investment agreement that the EU is negotiating with the US – the EU's largest export market. Customs duties, red tape and restrictions on investment on both sides of the Atlantic can make it difficult to buy and sell goods and services. Removing these barriers to trade between the EU and the US would stimulate growth, create jobs and lead to greater choice and lower prices for us as consumers. We are convinced that this would create jobs in the EU as a whole. Trade creates jobs, growth and prosperity in Sweden and in other countries. In order for jobs to increase in Sweden, Sweden must remain open to the outside world. Any form of protectionism must be countered. This is important, not least because we in Sweden have many people who are outside the labour market and are in great need of jobs. We also see that since 2008 and the financial crisis, the number of new barriers to trade has increased in the world. For example, between 2008 and 2015, the G20 introduced a total of 1 360 new restrictions while only 329 were removed. This risks damaging not only the Union's trade development but also Sweden's. Sweden must therefore remain a clear voice within the EU and abroad for free trade and openness. Removing barriers to trade while protecting the environment, consumer protection and a level playing field must be a priority in order to continue to increase international trade. Mr President, I would like to In order for time to be limited this afternoon, we only ask for the Alliance's reservation 1. But of course we are also behind the rest of the Alliance.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-765	Mr President, I would like to There has long been broad support in the Swedish Parliament for the view that free trade is fundamentally positive and therefore an important principle to protect. The Social Democrats share the view that free trade can be a strong and wealth-creating force both for the world's poor countries and for the more developed countries. Safeguarding the principle of free trade is therefore both a global interest and a Swedish interest. At the same time, it is important to establish that free trade should also be fair and promote sustainable development, human rights, the protection of workers and the interests of consumers and the fight against corruption. Sweden has been, is and should be a clear voice for fair, open and sustainable free trade to be an important tool for democracy, growth and prosperity. We've made a difference, and we're gonna keep doing it. That is why we are proactive and active at all levels, in the EU, in bodies such as the WTO and at home. This means that we are in favour of more free trade agreements and that we want them to achieve as ambitious a result as possible in order to support growth and employment while safeguarding the environment, health and workers' rights. This applies not least to TTIP, the trade agreement which is now being negotiated between the EU and the US and which has sparked some debate. Our view is that the agreement is important for Sweden, for Swedish jobs and for Swedish companies, especially for small companies, who are not able to buy themselves past trade barriers by establishing themselves directly on markets. Lower or removed tariffs and more common rules and standards are often crucial to the ability of a small company to establish itself in a new market. At the same time, of course, the concerns about investor protection and its dispute resolution mechanism, ISDS, must be taken seriously. We therefore particularly welcome the Commission's work on a proposal for a more modern investor protection and a TTIP dispute resolution mechanism. The proposal establishes a special court with independent judges. However, it is also proposed – and this is perhaps even more important – specific provisions that make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises, such as a ceiling on legal costs and more effective and faster treatment. We do not yet know whether that proposal will be heard and accepted in the European Union and in the negotiations with the United States. But we think it is positive that we are making great efforts to find solutions that carry forward. With regard to the protection of the rights of states to regulate, the Commission proposes that there should be wording which states that governments' right to regulate public policies remains intact. In addition, the Commission proposes to clarify that investment protection provisions cannot be interpreted as a commitment from governments not to change their legislation in the future, although this may negatively affect investors' expectations of performance. It can also be noted that the Swedish position on the importance of openness and transparency has had an impact in the TTIP negotiations and in the Commission's new trade strategy. These are important steps in the right direction for more democratically informed decisions. Mr President, I would like to We also agree with the negotiations on an updated TISA but, at the same time, note that it is only when an agreement is negotiated that it is possible to take a full stand on it. It applies to all agreements, always. TISA is a plurilateral agreement covering 50 countries. The aim is to allow the agreement to be incorporated into the WTO in the long term. The agreement aims to enable foreign and domestic companies to compete on a level playing field with regard to services markets. It is worth noting, however, that services operated in the public domain, without either competition or profit, are excluded from the definition of service. In the case of services provided to the public sector, each country determines the commitments it wishes to make. Sweden has chosen not to commit to public health services, publicly funded education, water distribution and film, television and other audiovisual services. Another agreement affected by the report is TRIPS. It is an agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, such as patents and copyright and environmental technologies. The same principles apply here, of course, as has already been stated. However, it is worth adding that important steps have been taken with the creation of a Green Climate Fund in 2009 and the Paris 2015 Climate Agreement to facilitate technology transfer to poor developing countries, including through financial support. As far as the EU's internal market is concerned, we can see that it is important and that more can and should be done to get all countries to implement the decisions that have been taken. In accordance with this view, we respect the decision and the alignment that has been made with the WTO rules on seal products but will monitor and update the issue in the context of future evaluations. The same applies to the export ban on snus, where we have previously given priority to the domestic derogation. We also welcome the fact that the Commission is now developing strategies to strengthen both the single digital market and the single market as a whole. The starting point should be to focus on those areas with the greatest potential for growth and cross-border trade within the EU. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a small country on the outskirts of or far from most markets. In a situation where globalisation and digitalisation create new challenges and new opportunities and where many of our most innovative new companies are born globally and from day one need to be able to reach markets beyond Sweden's borders, it is worrying that we as a country have lost market share in virtually all markets since the 2008–2009 financial crisis. The policy pursued under the bourgeois government has not been enough to reverse this development. Therefore, we Social Democrats now welcome the efforts made on exports in the 2016 budget and the export strategy developed by the S-MP government. The aim of the strategy is to increase exports, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of GDP, to increase Sweden's attractiveness for investments, skills and tourists, to increase the proportion of exporting companies and to increase the participation of Swedish companies in the global economy. Swedish exports must reach the emerging markets to a greater extent. More SMEs must be able, bold and willing to export. It is a prerequisite for creating more jobs, growth and welfare in Sweden. The export strategy, together with the letter on sustainable entrepreneurship, has been handed over to Parliament and will be discussed in the spring. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-785	Mr President, I would like to Jennie Nilsson notes that the transparency of TTIP has increased thanks to Sweden's position. It shows that it is nevertheless possible to influence the current trade negotiations. Last week, the European Parliament voted on the direction it wanted to take in the EU negotiations on TISA, the service agreement that Jennie Nilsson also highlighted. The position is a way for the European Parliament to influence the EU so that the outcome is as close to what the European Parliament wants so that it can approve or reject the trade agreement when it is negotiated. Among other things, it voted on what is called the positive list, which means that only the market areas included in a list would be covered by the agreement. This has been standard in previous trade agreements, but on Tuesday a negative list was proposed, which means that when new market areas arise, they are automatically covered by the trade agreement. The Social Democrats chose to abstain in the European Parliament and thus actually decided to vote by not choosing sides and thus not protecting the public sector and future markets. I would therefore like to ask: is the public sector not important to the Social Democrats? What do the Social Democrats think – are you in favour of a positive or a negative list? My second question concerns another proposal voted on, the so-called ratchet clause and stand-by bond. It is a question of being able, as a state, to reclaim markets that have once been privatised. These clauses mean that it will not be possible, and I wonder what the Social Democrats think about the ratchet clause. Was it good that Parliament voted against this proposal?
i-Crr57UswjMWUP1cyGtCkhZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Håkan Svenneling! With regard to the first question of a positive or a negative list, I think we interpret it considerably less than the Left Party does. I believe that the reasons why a negative list is being developed instead of a positive list in the new negotiations are an adaptation to an increasingly globalised and digitised world. This means that there are likely to be faster processes, one assesses, and one has assessed that there is a value in itself of keeping up speed in matters over time and not having to constantly make new decisions. On the other hand, we are not at all making the same interpretation as the Left Party of whether a market can or cannot be regulated. Here is a connection to what Håkan Svenneling raises in his second question, namely the ratchet clause. On the basis of the wordings made by the Left Party in this report, I note that they see it as not being able to reverse from something that has been left market access to. This view is not shared by the government, not by the majority of parties in this House, and not by the National Board of Trade and other external assessors that we use as a basis for the development of our positions. On the contrary, we believe that it is perfectly possible to take back areas to which market access has been left by creating monopolies. There is a significant difference in how we choose to interpret this linked to how our services are defined. Our definition, which we share with the European Commission as I see it, is fundamentally different from how the Left Party has chosen to interpret it. You stand quite alone in your interpretation.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-795	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an interesting answer, Jennie Nilsson! If Jennie Nilsson believes that it is important to influence so that TTIP becomes more open and transparent, what does she think is important that the Swedish Government should prioritise in the TISA agreement so that it becomes as good as possible for Sweden?
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-797	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps the most important thing is what we have had success with in terms of the TTIP and within the EU's domains, where we have managed to make our voice heard and created credibility for the view that transparency and transparency are something good. There we are now seeing major changes in the TTIP negotiations, even if more could be desired, and we see this in the new trade strategy. With regard to the TISA agreement, which is being negotiated within the framework of the WTO, these negotiations do not have the same transparency. Perhaps the most obvious thing we could do in the near future is to keep pushing and, perhaps very likely with great success, push for more transparency in those negotiations too. Then, of course, it is also a question of the balance of trade agreements. A deal is never better than it is when it's done. Neither Håkan Svenneling nor I know what the TISA agreement will contain, so what we must above all influence is that it will be a good and balanced agreement that both increases trade and free trade and what is positive about it, while ensuring that we protect things that are important to protect. I can note that, for me as a social democrat, agreements are a way of actually creating security and balance. We heard Håkan Svenneling talk a lot about the big companies in previous replica shifts, and the Left Party interprets it as a way to meet the big companies. For me, it's a little bit the other way around. My picture is that big companies will always make their voices heard, but if there are no agreements and clear rules, they put small and medium-sized enterprises in a position where they cannot compete on equal terms, neither Swedish nor others. So we have very different approaches to how we see it here, but I think we agree very much on the importance of protecting the environment, health and employees' rights. We will continue to do so.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-804	Mr President, I would like to Agreements with far-reaching consequences must not be rushed forward. There is a need for a thorough examination of the possible consequences in all the areas concerned. Genuine democratic management requires time and transparency. All concerned must have a reasonable opportunity to understand the issues and to contribute their knowledge and approaches – not just those with great financial resources. There would need to be a substantial public education effort and an enriching and comprehensive public debate on, for example, the TTIP on both sides of the Atlantic. Experience with existing trade and investment agreements must be exploited. A solid basis for decision-making is required in order to be able to make informed decisions on such large issues as agreements of the type negotiated by the EU with Canada, CETA, and TTIP that the EU is now negotiating with the US, as well as the TISA agreement, which has been mentioned here. Carl Schlyter previously showed how extensive CETA is. If I remember correctly, he said it was 1,634 pages. He had an older trade agreement with India with him. That was 12 pages. It goes without saying that this is about much more than self-evident things such as removing the customs duties that still exist between, for example, the EU and the US. That's the small part of it. As others have done here, it is about regulatory cooperation and many other things. It is much more important for such agreements to be good for everyone than for them to be quickly put in place and instead to risk unnecessary or bad elements that are discovered later. There are several questions that need to be straightened out. Carl Schlyter has already spoken in favour of his motion, which is dealt with in the report, in the previous debate. He called for environmental impact assessments to determine whether the change is better or worse for the environment than, for example, a zero option, as happens in the EU for major investment projects. Therefore, Swedish authorities need to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment of both CETA and TTIP. The analyses carried out at EU level several years ago are not enough. The lyrics change all the time. I am pleased that the committee states that independent impact assessments are to be carried out on the final texts of the agreements. As I said, it's not until we know what we're dealing with. This applies not only to the environment but also to health, social, trade union and economic rights. It is listed in the report that these can be done by relevant Swedish authorities such as the Swedish Data Protection Authority, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Such impact assessments are indeed necessary to provide a sound enough basis for decision-making. This applies both to the European Parliament and to us in Parliament, if that is the case. It has to take the time it takes. Another important issue I would like to highlight is how small and medium-sized enterprises may be affected by the agreements. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise would like to point out that, for example, TTIP, as it is now proposed, would benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. But there are big questions about this, and others come to the opposite conclusion. I have a report that has been presented by a network of British small businesses. It was formed this year. The network is fresh, but it has already attracted many entrepreneurs. They're worried. They believe that the agreement in its current intended form will benefit large companies. They rely on various investigations and reports, including those from the European Commission. They show that small businesses are at risk of competition and that hundreds of thousands of jobs are at risk of disappearing in the UK alone. Similar calls and networks have been launched in Holland and Germany. It would be excellent if more smaller companies could be helped to expand and export. There are great opportunities there. But the vast majority of companies, even in our country, are small and operate locally. It is a sensible order that a lot of trade is best done locally. To bring it all to a head, I can reproduce the great American environmental economist Herman Daly. He has pointed out the absurdity of exporting cookies between the United States and Europe. Instead, you can exchange recipes with each other so you avoid the environmental burden that transport entails. There is something in this – not always, but sometimes. It is worth remembering that there is trade and there is trade. We have talked a lot about dispute resolution and investor protection mechanisms, Investor-State Dispute Settlements. Another major issue has been highlighted by, among others, the largest organisation of judges and public prosecutors, the Deutscher Richterbund, which strongly criticises the mechanism and believes that there is no need for a parallel judicial system because the EU and the US are made up of constitutional states. It considers that the ISDS mechanism in its current form, the Investment Court System, ICS, with the improvements proposed by EU Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, undermines the legislative power of the Member States and the legislative power of the EU and undermines their powers of interpretation and application of EU law. We have touched on these heavy-lead objections. The Commission must listen and take them very seriously and develop dispute resolution mechanisms that do not conflict with the law or undermine democracy. This applies to TTIP and, of course, to CETA, which is earlier in time. It is about all the agreements that are supposed to have such mechanisms. So much remains to be done before the trade and investment agreements can be considered. I look at the time and hope for constructive work here in Parliament and in the European Union, that is, the European Commission and its counterparts and the European Parliament, so that we can have trade agreements that are actually good for all trade for everyone – as well as the previous opinion we have discussed. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-816	Mr President, I would like to On March 16, 1809, spring had begun to come to Stockholm. When the morning dawned, Sweden's King Gustav IV Adolf was named. By the evening, the king had been arrested at the castle and was effectively set aside by a bloodless coup d'état. Gustav IV Adolf was well aware that his fate could be said to have marked the beginning of a development towards democracy in Sweden, a democracy in which the government and public administration are under clear control. It is a control aimed at combating abuse of power and arbitrariness and promoting transparency, good government work and good governance. After the coup d'état, the 1809 form of government was drawn up, and two new developments in this form of government were the Parliamentary Ombudsman, the JO, and the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, the KU. The KU was given the task of examining that the government and its ministers comply with laws and other rules, while the JO received corresponding assignments in relation to the state administration and eventually also the municipal administration. For more than 200 years, the Constitutional Committee has been examining various aspects of how government power is exercised. The review has been carried out in different ways over the years, but since the 1990s it is common practice that the KU submits two review reports per Parliamentary Session, one for the so-called Autumn Review and one for the Spring Review. What we are now debating is the report on the autumn review in autumn 2015. What the KU is mainly associated with is probably the spring review, which is based on an examination of individual ministers based on notifications from individual members of parliament. But the KU and its office put so much effort into the autumn review. I would like to extend my warm thanks to the members of the committee for their good cooperation on this examination and also to the officials of the KU Office for their hard and skilful work on the audit. The autumn review revolves around about half a dozen review topics selected by the KU at KU's own initiative and is about studying and monitoring work processes within the government and in the Government Office. The focus is not on whether a minister deserves criticism or not, as in the spring review, but on analysing whether different types of case are dealt with satisfactorily from a constitutional point of view and on making recommendations for the future so that government work can develop. I would like to give a brief account of the subjects covered by the current autumn review. Under the heading, the composition of the government and the organisation of government work, the committee has continued to monitor developments in the number of officials in the Government Office. The review shows that the number of employees has decreased from 4,682 in 2014 to 4,537 in 2015, i.e. by approximately 150 persons. Over 4,000 employees can sound a lot, but this includes all employees at Sweden's embassies and other missions around the world as well as all employees in the state investigation service. Internationally, Sweden has a small government office. Furthermore, the committee has reviewed government protocols from 2014, including the sub-protocols of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. In its position, the committee is concerned, among other things, with the drafting of decisions amending regulatory letters. This is an audit that can be traced all the way back to 1809. Then, 200 years ago, the members of the KU sat and personally read the government's minutes. Officials of the KU's Office are now carrying out the formal examination of the minutes. At each autumn review, the KU usually reviews the government's handling of a certain group of administrative matters. Although many administrative cases over the last 20 years have been transferred from the government to authorities or courts, the government still decides more than 5,000 cases each year, and a lot of them are administrative cases. The review has this time referred to extradition cases for crimes in which the government made decisions in 2014. The examination has not given rise to any comment by the committee, but the dossiers have been dealt with in an acceptable manner. The report then follows an examination of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of cases concerning consular support for detainees abroad. In 2014, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs handled no less than 434 cases concerning Swedes who were detained in some other country. The KU makes an observation in the review, and it is that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' guidance should better show what applies when foreigners who reside in Sweden and are neither refugees nor stateless persons ask for help. In an increasing number of policy areas, so-called coordinators are appointed by the government. One example is the national coordinator against violent extremism, another is the coordinator for vulnerable EU migrants and a third is the so-called Swedish negotiators who are working on the expansion of the new main routes. KU has mapped the coordinators appointed between September 2002 and June 2015 and reviewed their mandates from a constitutional perspective. In some cases, an individual minister has taken a decision on the coordination mission and, according to the committee, it can be discussed if these decisions should not instead have been taken by the government as a collective. The committee also draws attention to the link between the coordinators and the Government Office during the current missions. In particular, in cases where a coordinator has a clear external direction, and in the view of the KU, it can be discussed whether the mission should be carried out within the framework of the Government Office. The committee also stresses the need for the public to be able to easily find information about the coordination missions and that it is important that the coordinators' work be brought into line with the state authorities in this area. In addition, the committee has taken an interest in the government's government administration, more specifically the governance of certain authorities under the Ministry of Defence. The KU emphasises the importance of formal governance through government decisions, government instructions and regulatory letters. In the case of informal contacts between government and authorities, it is important that such contacts focus more on information than on governance. It is the responsibility of the government that, in informal contacts, it is clear to the authorities what the formal framework of contact is and for what purpose it is being taken. In the review, the committee notes with a critical point that the documentation from the government dialogue is very sparse, which impairs the ability to track contacts and their content. The government appoints directors of all government agencies except for the few who are subject to the Riksdag, and the committee conducts every two years a review of how the government exercises its power of appointment. The committee follows up the division between women and men among appointed heads of government and how many of the managers have political backgrounds. The KU also examines how many vacant positions as Head of Authority are advertised in the framework of the open recruitment procedure that the previous government specified in 2009 as the norm for the recruitment process. The committee would like to highlight the positive developments in the proportion of women appointed. Since 2010, that proportion is close to 50% instead of just under 40% as before. In the case of Heads of Government with a political background, the share was 27 per cent in the period 2001 to the turn of the government in 2006. The share from access to the alliance government until the next change in government in 2014 was 17 per cent. The fact that fewer people with political background were appointed by the Alliance government can be seen as a sign that the then government was able to broaden the recruitment base and thus give more people the chance to compete for the state top jobs. The politicalisation of the state administration was, as you know, an issue in the general debate over a period of years, but with the falling proportion of government managers with political background the issue lost a large part of their load. The proportion of appointed persons with political background has increased to 29 per cent after the new government's accession. However, the total number of appointments is low – only 28 of them, eight of them from a political background. There is therefore insufficient statistical evidence to draw any definite conclusions on the direction of development. However, the committee will come back to the matter in two years' time, and the basis will then be greater. Finally, the committee has conducted a review of the government's information and consultation with the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs over the last 25 years. I know that a number of colleagues will dwell on this issue, so I will refrain from addressing it in my speech. In addition to the issues I have now mentioned, the committee has also addressed in this report the issue of the participation of the government in the KU's scrutiny. In that part, however, I refer to the speech by my colleague, Maria Abrahamsson. As can be seen from the accounts I have now made, the KU has carried out a thorough review of a number of important parts of the government's work with the basic aim of making the government work better. Thus the KU keeps the legacy of 1809 alive even after two centuries. With this, Mr President, I call for the committee's notification to be approved.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-841	Mr President, I would like to I shall dwell on three dossiers in the report. They relate to the involvement of ministers in the constitutional committee's review of the performance of their duties. Here, practice has been positive for decades – all the ministers-in-office and former ministers have, with some exception, set up when the Constitutional Committee has wished to hold a hearing. Former Minister of Economic Affairs Maud Olofsson's actions are an exception, a negative exception – very negative, even. It is important that this exception should not become practice. That is why it was important for the Constitutional Committee to set up an investigation for scrutiny. How can one prevent former Minister Olofsson's actions, so to speak, from being taken into revenue because the Riksdag through the Constitutional Committee has had no reminder and thus made a change that could become practice? We believe that the solution of the investigation, a written commitment to the Prime Minister, should be a sufficient mark both for the individual and for all ministers or former ministers who are considering not coming to the KU. Legislation can be implemented, but we believe that this is the key point. There will be no practice of what former Minister Olofsson did when she did not want to come to the KU and answer questions about her responsibility for the so-called Nuon affair. We also expect all the ministers and former ministers to come, and we expect all the ministers appointed from the time our report is clear to also make a written explanation of this to the Prime Minister, as it should be possible for the Constitutional Committee to take part in its review work. Mr President, I would like to National coordinators in different policy areas are an interesting development. It probably reinforces the government's ability to govern the kingdom horizontally, on the state side, and vertically, throughout the public side. We do not criticise this function or this innovation in principle. It is within the government's power to rule the empire, but as our President has just pointed out, there should be some tightening up of practices in the appointment of a national coordinator, in the handling of the Freedom of the Press Act and the principle of public access, and in the way a coordinator acts externally – then one should be an authority of one's own. It is also important for us to have uniform annual accounts in, for example, committee reports and the committee register with regard to the national coordinators. This is important for all ministers to consider. For my part, I think that particularly the heads of expeditions in the Government Office and the administrative department, which are directly under the Prime Minister, have reason to remind colleagues in the various departments of what should apply when appointing a national coordinator in different policy areas. I would like to close this part by saying that we are not criticising this rather new function in principle. We see it as constitutionally possible, and it can certainly strengthen the government's ability to rule the kingdom. Mr President, I would like to The Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs meets under the leadership of the Head of State. It is formally called by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, but in reality it is very much the Prime Minister's question of governance. We have examined and found that there has been a shift from often dealing with individual cases to more about subjects. We think that this is a reasonable development. It may not be possible to say that the whole issue has been discussed in the Foreign Affairs Board itself, but perhaps there have been discussions about the process between the Foreign Minister and the foreign policy spokesmen of the various parties. The processes within the European Union explain in part why the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs may now have fewer cases but still deserve to gather to discuss broader subjects. Strategic discussions on international politics and Swedish politics in this respect should be able to take place within the formal confidentiality framework provided by the Swedish Foreign Affairs Council. We would like to stress in the report that, in principle, information to party leaders cannot replace consultation within the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs, and we also stress that prior consultation, before the government takes a decision, is the right thing to do, not to orient the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs afterwards, unless there is a particularly urgent need to justify that order of trains. Mr President, I would like to As I see it, this year's review is important on many points. Perhaps these points are of particular interest and importance. I am pleased that we have been able to separate ourselves here from the matter in essence in agreement. I call for the approval of the Constitutional Committee's notification.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-854	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to take up your time or anyone else's time to explain in detail each individual dossier that we have had to examine within the framework of the KU's report 10. Others have already done so exemplary before me, and it is also possible to read. Instead, I will make a small impact here and there on matters as we run into something remarkable where we in the Swedish Democrats can have a slightly different view in relation to the other parties in the committee, or if there is something else worth drawing attention to. For example, in the first case, the composition and organisation of the Government, we note that the number of government employees here in Stockholm – i.e. not in foreign agencies and so on – has increased from 1,700 – 1,800 to almost exactly 3 000 in the last 25 years. If we compare this with what is stated in the next issue, the Government Minutes, at the same time we can see that the number of government cases settled during the same period has fallen from about 20 000 to just over 5 000 per year. Thus, even though perhaps a little mean and careless, one could conclude that today's government decides about a quarter as many matters as it did 25 years ago, even though it has almost twice as many employees. It becomes somewhat tragic when you note that the largest case group that the government decides on is precisely employment matters. It is almost so that you can ask yourself what you are doing away in Rosenbad more than hiring more people. But I guess I'll be aware of that after the next election, which will be held by 2018. If nothing else, it may be worth having this relationship in mind when it is time for next year's budget negotiations and we will agree on how much money will be allocated to the Government Office. In case 3, some administrative cases, neither we nor anyone else, it seems, something to add. But when we come to issue 4, the Council of State's obligation to participate in the review of the Constitutional Committee, on the other hand, we have all the more to say. However, let me build up the tension a little by coming back to this in a little while and beta off the other dossiers first. In case 5, Consular support for detainees abroad, it was almost too well that there had been some somewhat unforeseen event in any case, so that we had something to ask about and write in our position. However, case 6, coordinators in different policy areas, generated much more extensive material. Here I have to say that the committee's office has done a horse job, on the one hand by playing detective to try to find out and find at all the coordinators that different governments have appointed but not always kept a very thorough book on, on the other hand, to highlight and try to get out all the ambiguities regarding the names of the coordinators, their missions and the form of organisation, and more. In one area, however, both the Registry and the committee in general seem to have gone a long way, despite the perseverance and repeated calls from the undersigned. The problem is some accountability of the government for the work the coordinator is doing on behalf of the government. If the government, or even worse a single minister, goes in and pokes too much in the affairs of an authority, these KUs may be notified or face a motion of censure. The Parliament thus owns this power of control. What happens, though, if this misdemeanour is instead laid out on a so-called driving coordinator appointed by the government, so that he basically goes in and does the same thing in order to realise the government's ambitions? It will be ministerial rule by proxy, so to speak. Then, of course, the relevant authority may be upset with the coordinator, but since a coordinating official cannot be notified to the KU or voted out in the Riksdag, responsibility is suddenly transferred to the government, which was therefore the person who really wanted to have the action carried out. So there is a clear conflict of interest and legal uncertainty, where the minister responsible can say that he or she has not been involved in giving any directives or similar to the affected authority, while the coordinator in question cannot be held accountable in Parliament and may even have already reported on his or her mission and moved on to new challenges. The only thing the Riksdag should be able to do then is, probably with little success, to hear the government about its governance of the coordinator but not about the next line, i.e. the coordinator's control of the relevant authority on more or less pronounced delegation from the government. The risk seems to be quite great that the government and its representatives swear to be free from the details of the coordinator's independent performance of the mission, not least if he in turn has been organised as his own and now perhaps decommissioned authority, while the result for the current administration ultimately became basically the same as if the minister himself had gone in and tried to rule with the whole hand. Call it divide or rule, the cat on the rat and the rat on the rope or whatever you want, Mr President, the bottom line is the same, namely that the more actors and led you to divide a responsibility, the harder it will be to demand the same. What is a little bit more boring here is that in this year's spring review we have an issue that is about exactly that. Then one might think that it would have been an excellent opportunity to sort out the chain of responsibility once and for all when we did such a thorough review and review in the autumn review as a pre-evarit. This was not the case, and I must only hope that this spring's current investigation will answer the question and provide some kind of precedent. Then I had intended to talk a little about case 7, which, for the reasons that have been mentioned, is precisely about the need for clarity in the governance and boundaries between the government and the various authorities and within them, as well as case 8, which particularly highlights the need for evaluation and follow-up when introducing new procedures, and 9 about the interesting developments within the Foreign Affairs Board. However, I realise that it will not be possible for me to keep my promise to return to the Parade issue on the duty of the Minister to participate in the review of the Constitutional Committee. So let's go bang on the bet. It is no secret directly that the background to this matter is run from the former Minister of Economic Affairs and also Deputy Prime Minister Maud Olofsson's unwillingness to come to the KU and explain the tours behind the completely wrecked Nuon scandal. Believe me, Mr President, I would not have liked to have had to come and answer questions after such a clover. But surely something as important as the exercise of parliamentary control cannot depend on arbitrary perceptions of what is fun or what is not, especially when it comes to representatives of present or former governments? Sure, everyone can make mistakes, some up to 53 000 million of them. But not everyone has about $12,000 a month to take responsibility for their job. And it is far from everyone who is offered such a job with such a salary without possessing the necessary skills to perform it in a qualified way, which obviously was not the case here. The mission as a minister of state is not something that should be either given or taken too long and faithful service, but if one accepts to accept this responsibility, with its extremely high remuneration, it should be because one has such competence in the field that one is also prepared to assume a certain responsibility, or risk if you prefer, for the result. However, the reason why we have chosen not to reserve ourselves entirely against the position of the majority of committees and the conclusions and proposals of the underlying investigation are as follows: As long as the current legal situation in all practical respects means that the ultimate consequence of a former government council examined by the KU can, in the worst case, become criticism in a lighter or more difficult form, it would not be proportionate if failure to comply with the expected formal requirements was in danger of causing more severe sanctions than the actual outcome of the review itself. In fact, this happened to be the case with Maud Olofsson, whose board office in LKAB was explicitly withheld because she refused to show up in the KU, not because she contributed to the Swedish taxpayers seeing SEK 53 billion go up in smoke through unspeakable government practice. But what if she had never sought that entry to begin with? Or what if it had been another person who had done something else obviously messed up? Or what if it had been another government that might have had more leniency or a better eye for the person in question? Then the punishment would have been something else, or perhaps not even completely. Thus, society's sanctions also appear rather arbitrary and legally insecure. This is not good, Mr President, but rather totally unacceptable. How, then, did the Prime Minister in office want to remedy this, which has also been the solution that the current investigators and subsequently the committee have supported? Well, there should be a note in the cover you get when you start as a minister, where it says that you are expected to come if the KU calls even after you have quit. At the moment, it does not even seem that this paper needs to be signed or otherwise endorsed so that it can be made likely that the persons concerned have taken note of the content at all. But of course, these tough demands, as they have been put forward as in the debate, may of course sound like a step in the right direction in any case. But as long as this home-made and non-binding note does not contain or be accompanied by any means of sanction, it seems to me, unfortunately, that in reality it may as well have been written on toilet paper as I am now putting on the table. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: The Member will have to take it down again, because we do not have objects except...) That is what I shall do, Mr President. How can and should we do so? The Swedish Democrats are currently working comprehensively to review how the KU's review and control power can be reformed and strengthened so that the Riksdag owns the entire process and so that responsibility for the relevant decision-makers, including former ones, is clarified and tightened considerably. The KU is already in a position to prosecute both sitting and outgoing ministers who are suspected of having committed certain serious crimes and serious violations of their duties. However, the catalogue of offences that may give rise to such a judicial review may be considered to be rather thin at present, and such prosecutions have never been brought in modern times. Extending this possibility could be a way forward by, for example, extending the criminal catalogue to include obvious incompetence in the performance of duties. Of course, such a modest and most reasonable measure would be devastating for the present government, if nothing else. However, with a real risk of severe consequences, the whole question of presence would probably regulate itself, since it would probably take every opportunity to explain and defend its actions. However, even if this were not the case, a closer link between the KU and the judiciary, where more legal tools are at the disposal of the KU, could mean that much tougher demands can be made for both the presence and the one who will be expected not only to speak the truth but also to stand a legal risk if one chooses not to do so. One of the main objections to the imposition of a penalty payment has been doubts as to possible means of redress and enforcement. This argument cannot be considered sustainable if a court is involved or at least appointed and available from the outset. One could even think of a system in which it is the court that deals with everything related to the duty to do on the application of the KU. When it comes to something as obvious as the one called to the KU should not go untruthful, it has been argued that this and any associated ceremonial rites such as taking oaths and so on are in danger of changing the nature of the committee and dwelling it on legal aspects that are not necessarily on the committee's members to assess. Then don't worry about it! Instead, let the President simply state that there is a duty of truth, and the question of possible perjury or the like may, if necessary, be raised and examined in a court designated for that purpose, where the KU can, as it is today, be represented by the JO. As a matter of fact, it should not be any stranger or more complicated to have a duty of truth than for a committee to be able to impose a duty of secrecy on someone, who may then be prepared to take the consequences if there is a suspicion that the duty imposed would have been infringed. This is, therefore, something that can be done without the committee in question adopting a more courtlike character or the Members having to be exclusively lawyers. To conclude, I would like to mention that another positive effect of tightening up the possible consequences of a KU notification could be that the development that some people think they are seeing, namely that Members of Parliament have gradually started to change their attitude towards the use of KU notifications, can be reversed. As long as a dot only looks bad for the minister and the government, without any real risk of prosecution or the like, you as a reporter need not feel that you assume such a great responsibility for the possible consequences of your complaint. However, if there was indeed a significant risk in the balance of the notified party, the responsibility for the notifier would also be more evident. Then it would also be easier for us to respond to those who would argue that the KU is today being used to try to pick cheap political points by throwing more or less obvious misappropriations into profit and loss. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I very much apologise for the time overrun.
i-ER52muaYNijJ1hDmP1zCzu	( First VICE TALMANN: The honourable Member had reported that he would talk for 8 minutes and has been talking for almost 14 minutes. )
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-892	Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on two aspects of Fredrik Eriksson's speech. One is his description of the so-called Nuon case, and the other is his view of the KU's function and possible reform needs. The Nuon affair was a matter that was examined by the KU last term of office, before Fredrik Eriksson was in the Riksdag. I can therefore inform Fredrik Eriksson that it was not about what he described in the speaker's chair. Above all, KU's conclusions were not about what he was into. It was that Vattenfall's board had decided to acquire the Dutch energy company Nuon. It eventually turned out that it was a bad deal, because the price of gas, which was Nuon's main product, fell, because the price of coal fell, so that the demand for gas fell. As a result, Vattenfall eventually saw the need to write down Nuon's value. The Constitutional Committee did not – and did not – criticise the matter in substance, because it is not the task of the KU, but it is a matter for the general political debate. The KU concluded that the preparation of the matter had essentially followed the rules that exist, including the actions of Minister Olofsson. What Maud Olofsson finally got criticized for was whether she had sued the deal with her employees, with the Ministry of Finance's budget department, which there are regulations to do. That was at the heart of the criticism that the KU addressed. The description in rather high tone that Fredrik Eriksson made is therefore not factual or correct in relation to what the KU actually came up with. I see that in my next line I will have to return to the question of whether the KU will become more of a court. I do not share that view. The task of the KU is to demand political responsibility on a legal basis, and that is something quite different.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-898	Mr President, I would like to You will, Andreas, get the word back pretty quickly. If it is as you describe it, the easier for Maud Olofsson to come and explain this in KU.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-899	Mr President, I would like to All parties in the KU regretted that a hearing of Maud Olofsson could not take place. We all meant that it would have been valuable. When it comes to the role of the KU, I think that Fredrik Eriksson's rather populist tone and description of the need for tougher action against the ministers is not at all consistent with the tradition we have in Sweden of how we approach constitutionally central issues. If you are going to make changes to the Constitution, which is what this is all about, you have to see that there is a major social problem, a major problem that needs to be addressed. If you take the question, does the former minister usually come to the KU, or do they not? 中 is the answer: Yes, they usually do. Over the decades, the KU has had a large number of hearings with current and former ministers, and the example of Maud Olofsson is one of two throughout this long time when former ministers have chosen not to come to the KU. I would therefore say that this is not a major social problem, but that the government and former ministers are involved in the KU's review, because it is a prerequisite for enjoying public confidence. What is the role of the KU? It is political accountability on a legal basis. KU's work is not about demanding criminal liability. If Fredrik Eriksson believes that the KU should begin to impose fines and imprisonment or have such severe sanctions, then that is something quite different. In the balance, when one receives criticism from the KU, lies ultimately the confidence of the House in an individual minister. That confidence can be tested in a vote of confidence if a number of Members of this House so require. That's what's in the balance. The long-term confidence in a government, in its members and ultimately in its ability to control Sweden is what lies in the balance – and so it should be. We have courts investigating criminal liability. We have the KU that tests political responsibility on a legal basis and political confidence. That is how it should remain.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-904	Mr President, I would like to I should like to start by saying that I agree largely and in practice with President Norlén. This is not a huge problem in practical application. The problem lies in the basic basis. Who owns the process? Whose discretion is this to be pursued? With regard to the fact that the KU would adopt a more court-like form: that is exactly what I wanted to argue against, when I showed that the KU does not need to change its composition and character in any way. That's what we have the judiciary for. What was asked was that there were more legal tools, and it is not really about more tools, but about using the legal tools that are already at the disposal of the KU to a greater extent. If we talk about maintaining public confidence in the state apparatus – I can't speak for everyone but for myself – I assume that the reasonably general legal concept is: Calling the KU you should come, and if you come to the KU you should tell the truth. It's not really more difficult than that, as I see it.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-907	Mr President, I would like to The KU conducts two reviews each year. The more famous is the review of the government and individual ministers. It will be debated in a few months' time. Then there is the KU 10, which we are debating right now. It is the somewhat less public autumn review or the administrative review. We usually look at such things as registration and how many political officials there are. We've been watching the nominations this time. There the government is commended both for following the principles that apply and for increasing the proportion of women who have been appointed. In this autumn's review there have also been some more extensive in-depth dives, which has led us to debate this autumn review so far in February. The first deep dive, which has been in the debate quite a lot, is perhaps the more political and hot of the deep dives. It is about the involvement of ministers in the review of the Constitutional Committee. There, we in the KU have asked a special investigator, Bertil Wennberg, to look together with a parliamentary reference group at the possibilities to strengthen the demand for participation when we review the government in the KU. The background is, of course, which has been in the debate before, the tremendous thing that happened when the former Minister of Economic Affairs Maud Olofsson did not participate in the KU review about Nuon. It was very unusual in the history of the KU. The only time this has happened in the past was when a former minister was very ill and therefore did not come. When this happened, a discussion started on how reasonable it is to refuse to come and whether this could create a new form of normality in which ministers themselves choose whether to come and there trust in the KU's important work as reviewers of the government were in danger of being eroded. The investigation looked at the possibility of legislating and the possibility of giving periodic penalty payments but found in broad agreement that these measures are not compatible with the Swedish way of working, the Swedish tradition and the view that the KU should not be and act as a jury in a court of law. The penalty should be name and shame-- nothing else. Instead, it looked at how the Prime Minister of the present government had declared himself, that he had made it clear to each individual minister that it has a responsibility to participate in the KU's hearings both during and after his ministerial term. In the report that is now on the table, we in the KU make it clear that from now on we expect each Prime Minister to request written commitments, and we will follow up on the written commitments in the future. The second in-depth dive is about the coordinators of the latest governments. It is clear that the coordination function has become a good tool for governments on issues that require a special focus. However, it is important – as we point out – to clarify the role and mandate of the coordinators. When individual ministers decide on the coordinating role instead of the government doing it as a collective, the mandate of the coordinator is not as clear. Nor is it always easy to see whether it is an investigation or some other form of instigator that the government has appointed. In other words, there is a need within the Government Office to review this and do a certain kind of tightening up. The KU has also, as before, looked at authorities under the Ministry of Defence. Once again, we have noted that the government needs to be made clearer with the process of informal and formal contacts and with documentation of government dialogue between them. Mr President, I would like to The KU has also reviewed how the Government's information to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs has been done. We've been looking at the last 25-year period. The Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs has the opportunity to decide on absolute secrecy. Therefore, there is a special opportunity for the government to inform all parties about important things that may not be possible in other forums. It is quite obvious that this information from the government has changed over the years. It has become more focused on subjects. It can also be seen very clearly that when Sweden joined the EU, part of this information also went directly to the EU Board instead. Mr President, I would like to It has been very interesting to follow this autumn review. The chancellor has done an amazing job. I request that the autumn review be added to the file.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-919	Mr President, I would like to The so-called autumn review of the government by the Constitutional Committee comprises a total of nine different reviews presented in a report of over 140 pages. I would like to highlight two of these reviews here. An interesting review concerns the government's information and discussions with the Foreign Affairs Committee. As part of this review, the Constitutional Committee has called Cabinet Secretary Annika Söder and former Cabinet Secretary Frank Belfrage. It was quite natural, after the spring review last year, when we in the KU looked at how the Government of Löfven had conducted consultations with the Foreign Affairs Council on the recognition of Palestine as a state, to now review how governments have conducted their consultation duty for a long time. It is a 25-year review. We have noted that the number of meetings of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs decreased after EU entry. It is related to the fact that the government now has regular consultations with the Swedish Parliament's EU Board. In the summary of the review, the Constitutional Committee stresses the importance of strategic discussions on important foreign policy issues and events, as well as security policy issues, taking place at a constitutionally and politically high level. We point to the composition of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs, its demands for caution with the information and the possibility of deciding on absolute confidentiality of what is being dealt with there. This provides particularly good opportunities for information and consultation on sensitive matters within the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. The KU stresses the importance of the Government having discussions with the Swedish Foreign Affairs Board well in advance of a decision. Mr President, I would like to Another part of the autumn review has been to find out if Prime Minister Löfven has obtained assurances from their ministers that they will be standing in the KU for hearings, even after they have resigned as Minister. The question of how to ensure that the ministers will come to the KU has been highlighted in an investigation by the former Head of the Office of the KU Bertil Wennberg. The investigation was decided in May 2014 and submitted its proposals in October 2015. The conclusion of the investigation was that, in connection with the formation of the government, the Prime Minister should require a written assurance from his ministers to participate in the KU's review even after they have resigned. In October 2014, an article in the Expressen in connection with the formation of the government stated that Löfven would require a written assurance from their ministers that they would come to the hearings of the KU. We from KU, which was part of a reference group to Bertil Wennberg's investigation, probably had the belief that Löfven had requested such written assurances from its ministers as Expressen has written about, although it was not the Löfven One who had spoken about this in Expressen. When, in the autumn of 2015, the Constitutional Committee asked the Government Office questions about these assurances from the Ministers of State, it was only at the committee's third request to receive the assurances that it emerged that there were no written assurances from the Ministers of Lövven. According to the third reply, the Minister of State must have promised orally to come to the KU. I was surprised by this, and I am sure there were many others in the KU as well. The position of the Constitutional Committee on this matter is that we share the conclusions of the investigation, i.e. that the Prime Minister should demand that the Ministers give a written assurance of their future participation in the KU's review. It is stated in the statement that the committee will follow up in its review that the Prime Minister has made these demands, i.e. demands that were not made during the last formation of the government in 2014 and that so far have not been made by the Prime Minister to the Government. When it comes to Fredrik Eriksson's views on Maud Olofsson's competence – it is part of this that is the background to this investigation – I understand that he is talking about something he has not understood. I'm sorry about that. After Vattenfall's decision to buy Nuon, Maud Olofsson requested that the purchase first be examined by experts in the valuation of companies. Therefore, one of the largest banks in the United States was connected to assess whether it was a correct price for which Vattenfall was prepared to buy the company. The bank's message – one of the world's largest consultants and banks – was that the bid from Vattenfall was at a reasonable level. I may think it is a lot to ask that a government minister in a valuation of a company should have more knowledge than one of the world's leading banks, one of the world's leading consulting companies. Maud Olofsson also received praise in this part, when it comes to valuation, for the way she had carried out this part of her government work. So she was praised for ensuring that this review was carried out and that the evaluation was carried out in this way. Mr President, I would like to I request that this matter be added to the file.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-932	Mr President, I would like to Like many others, I intend to talk about a few matters. These are about the same matters that everyone else has talked about, i.e. the involvement of ministers in the KU review and specifically the involvement of former ministers. This is a subject which has been much discussed and which has received a lot of publicity in relation to the actual scale of the problem. So, as was said earlier here, we have had a former minister who has refused to come. We have also had a former minister who was ill in the past, and there is a little difference. One of the major problems that made it important for us to move forward and which also led to the investigation several people here have talked about came about was that the Prime Minister said in that situation that it is up to the Minister himself to decide whether to come. It was like the tone of the Prime Minister's statement when Maud Olofsson did not want to come to the committee. That was a big problem. It would have been much easier if Reinfeldt had said that former ministers should of course go to the KU when they are called. As he did not, I think it was important for the KU to ensure that there was an investigation, and it has also come to good conclusions. Our observation that it is important to tell those who take office as ministers that the minister should go to the KU when the KU calls, and that it is written down, is, I think, a good thing. That is quite enough in relation to the nature of the problem and also in relation to how we tend to view hearings and information. At least the basic attitude from me is: You come when the KU asks, and you say as it is. It has to be our starting point, otherwise it will be almost impossible to do the work well– if we assume that everything sent is fake or that everything everyone says is fake. Instead, the entrance is that you come and that you answer, and I think that this is an entirely appropriate position. Then, as many others have done, I would like to comment on this with coordinators, investigators, promoters, negotiators, negotiators and so on. This is therefore the case for all these people who are assigned to different functions of coordination. It is often a matter of coordinating, but it may also be other tasks. It has been very unclear, and it has been difficult for us to find out what these people have done. It has been decided in different ways, and it is very resourceful at all. It also makes it difficult to follow up. When you don't know what different people who are employed to do things should do, what function they have and who has ordered what it will be extremely difficult to follow up. As has been mentioned, it has also sometimes been a government minister who has arranged for it, and in doing so I think it should have been a government decision. Then there will be another dimension to it. So the conclusions we have reached are that it must become more obvious so that this can be seen. The compilation of who has the mandates and what the mandates mean must in some way be reasonable and achievable. The committee story exists, but there are also other ways of doing this if it is not government. The sum can be said to be: Sharpen this up so that it is possible to watch and watch! However, the exact form of the government will have to come back with. Then there is the control of the authorities within the Ministry of Defence. In several reviews, questions about the governance of different authorities have emerged. Questions have also arisen as to whether it is something that has been decided within the authority or whether it is something the Ministry of Defence has said. It has not always been easy to check this out and find out how it actually happened. It is also the case that the government and authorities seem to have different views on governance. In another context, the Swedish Defence Export Agency has said that the informal governance of the Ministry of Defence is relatively extensive and unpredictable, but the government does not see it the same way. Instead, it is perceived that it is clear when informal meetings are held, that they should be of an informational nature and that governance should not take place informally. However, the Authority has understood this, and it is a problem in itself that it does not have the same view on the governance of the Authority. It is therefore important that these things are done properly. Then there is the lack of documentation, and that is something I think we are coming back to almost all the time. It is the same here; it is a lack of documentation, and that of course makes the review more difficult. It's kind of not in a case that's the case, it's a standing problem. In this case, one can take the example of lists of international agreements, which do not always exist. Then one might also ask whether the lists that are available are complete. When it doesn't work, you can – at least I – get a little confused if it actually doesn't work in other places. It does not matter how good legislation we have on transparency and on the disclosure of documents if the documents are not registered. If it is not possible to know whether an international agreement exists, there can be no transparency either. It is therefore a fundamental problem. I guess we'll have to come back, 'cause there's a lot of stuff going on and everything needs to be documented in a good way. We add this to the record.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-945	Mr President, I would like to I'm the last in line, at least when it comes to the parties. There will be repetition of new angles, and then it sounds a little bit like this matter would be boring. It's not! It is an extremely engaging subject, and all the things that have been mentioned so far in the debate were front-page when it went on. It is only that the KU examines this in a factual and correct way and not in a politically agitating way. This also means that we are essentially in agreement. It is also an essential review report, an examination of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government matters, and we are putting on the table of the House for the more than two hundredth time in order. As has been mentioned, Mr President, former Minister for Economic Affairs Maud Olofsson refused to come to the Constitutional Committee and be questioned about his role in the Nuon affair. It was in March 2014. This was tremendously dramatic when it came, but now the KU has reviewed it and seen how we can get a better system of things in the future. The question of the participation of ministers and former ministers in the KU review has been addressed in the investigation we heard mentioned. An investigator with a parliamentary reference group has, on behalf of the committee, assessed the matter and submitted a report to the KU, which forms a basis for the examination. The conclusion of the investigation is that it is possible to legislate on a former minister's obligation to participate in the KU's review but that, although the issue is important, it does not mean that it should be done. Instead, the investigation led to the recommending of a regime whereby the incoming minister makes a written commitment to participate in the committee's scrutiny even after they have left their office as Minister of State. The KU has supported this. Now the committee expects the Prime Minister to make such demands in connection with the formation of the government, or later so that it will at least be done, and also to make the demand and commitments in writing so that they can be followed up satisfactorily. The KU will continuously monitor that this will be done. To what extent it had not already been given the impression that it would have been done, I leave unsaid. Given that clear demands have been made on the ministers and that these demands have been made public, the public debate and the negative attention that a refusal to come to the KU would bring should be a sufficient sanction to counteract such a refusal. However, if it turns out that such a system is not sufficient, the committee has said that legislation should be considered, but not by more force than is required. This is something that could be in a future but is not at the moment. The second question I want to talk about is another one that was on the front pages, and it is about what the roles of the various coordinators of the government really are. It has been examined by the committee and the mapping carried out by coordinators set up between September 2002 and June 2015 shows that different names are used. There is talk of negotiators, negotiators, negotiators, contact person, coordinator, national coordinators and coordinators – and some more that I do not mention here. There is a lack of clarity, according to the committee, as to the meaning and use of these designations. The government should consider how to use the designations. One could say that a certain conceptual remediation would have been good. One question is whether decisions on investigative missions and coordinators have been made in accordance with the constitutional practice that allows the Government Office and not the government to make decisions on certain matters. Here the KU declares that decisions on matters involving positions on matters of a political nature should always be taken in the form of a government decision. In several cases, a single minister has taken a decision on the coordination mission and, according to the KU, it can be discussed from a constitutional point of view if these should not have been taken by the government instead. In cases where a coordinator has a clear external direction and a driving role can be discussed, according to the KU, whether the mission should be carried out within the framework of the Government Office. That is how far the KU has spoken. Mr President, I would like to Thirdly and lastly, the Government provides for the Government to keep the Foreign Affairs Committee informed on an ongoing basis of foreign policy conditions that may be relevant to the Reich and to confer with the Board on them as often as necessary, and that the Government shall consult the Board on all foreign matters of major importance prior to the decision. Between 1990 and 2014, both the number of meetings per year of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs and part of what has been discussed there have varied. There is a certain tendency, says the committee, over time towards different matters and different subjects, rather than certain situations per se, being dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Previously, the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs used to consider a comprehensive instruction for the forthcoming meeting of the UN General Assembly as a whole. It's not done anymore. The committee has also observed a slight decrease in the number of meetings of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs over the last 20 years. A contributing factor can be Sweden's membership of the EU and the regular consultation between the Government and the Riksdag's EU Board. Furthermore, representatives of the Government regularly provide information in the Foreign Affairs Committee for meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council. The Constitutional Committee recalls that the status and tasks of the Foreign Affairs Board are regulated in the form of government and that they are not affected by the establishment of an EU Board, as are the positions and tasks of the committees in the Parliamentary Order, and that there was no change in the powers of the committees through the establishment of the EU Board. It is important to emphasise this. It is important that, among other things, strategic discussions on important foreign policy issues and events, as well as security policy issues, take place at a constitutionally and politically high level. The committee points to the composition of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs and the confidentiality resulting from the requirement of care which members and others attached to the Board must demonstrate in relation to communications to others about what they have become aware of in this capacity and the possibility of deciding on absolute confidentiality. The minutes of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs provide a documentation that enables follow-up and review to take place and take place. Information to party leaders cannot replace consultation with the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. That concludes my speech, Mr President, by saying that much else, which is overlooked in silence, is contained in the committee's report, which I call for to be added to the documents.
i-NqY6YWrSKBJKt1ncFQbhxv	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has reviewed the use of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs between 1990 and 2014. The Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs shall be heard by the Government in advance of decisions on all foreign affairs of major importance, in accordance with Chapter 10. Section 11 of the form of government. The investigation shows that the role of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs has changed significantly during the period without any change in the form of government. The biggest change took place in connection with Sweden's accession to the EU, although at the time the EU Board was set up it was established by the Constitutional Committee that the status and tasks of the Foreign Affairs Board were regulated in the form of government and therefore remained unchanged. The committee has observed a reduction in the number of meetings of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs, partly due to changes in EU membership, and partly due to a new handling of mandates for UN missions, for example. The committee would like to stress that although international changes can affect the use of the Foreign Affairs Board, it is important that strategic discussions and important foreign policy issues and events as well as security policy issues should be dealt with at a constitutionally and politically high level. This makes the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs, with its special regulation, the right forum for such matters. It cannot be replaced by other institutions. The Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs must therefore not develop into a constitutional decoration.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-966	Mr President, I would like to It is crucial for the Constitutional Committee to be able to fulfil its control power that the KU is able to access information and information on the matters that the KU examines. It goes without saying that it may then be as important that the KU has the opportunity to hear a resignation as a sitting minister. That is why the part of the KU10 which deals specifically with the participation of ministers in the KU's review is important, and like many other speakers here, I intend to dwell on this very point. The fact that ministers are present when the KU carries out its annual review of their duties should be a matter of course, but it is not always the case in practice. The origins of why the Constitutional Committee has drilled deeper into this matter this spring are nothing that I, as an alliance politician, am proud of, I will be honest with you. On the contrary, I regret, just as much as the KU did, the fact that Maud Olofsson did not appear when she was called during the last parliamentary term. So there's no difference there. But the fact that a former minister based on the bourgeois edge did not heed the KU's call has in any case had something good with him– I think that one should try to see things from the positive side – and that is that the KU has now thoroughly investigated whether the Riksdag should legislate on the duty of former ministers to participate in the KU's scrutiny. As the investigator, that is to say the former Head of the Office of the KU Bertil Wennberg, who has already been mentioned here, states in his report, it would be possible to legislate on such an obligation. This has been supported not only by the Constitutional Committee, but also by the JO and the Government Office. However, after careful evaluation of how legal figures such as duty of truth, retroactivity and coercive measures would risk colliding with the Swedish parliamentary constitutional control, there are more reasons that speak against legislation than speak for. Instead of legislation, the KU therefore advocates a solution in accordance with the investigator's proposal, and this means that the Prime Minister, in connection with the formation of the government, will demand a commitment to participate in the KU's review even after the Government has left its mandate. I would like to say in parentheses that there is, of course, nothing to prevent the government from initiating a party agreement with just such a focus. A prerequisite for the intended effect of this new regime is that the commitment can be satisfactorily followed up by the KU. It is therefore necessary to formalise these commitments and requirements in writing. We have heard that pointed out here, and that cannot be stressed enough. There are certainly more than I in this House who remember that, in the news flow after the 2014 elections, data and documents gave the impression that the Prime Minister had made it a condition for all incoming ministers to participate fully in the KU's review even after they had finished as ministers. But during the course of KU work during the autumn and spring, we have not been able to find any written documents showing that the ministers were really faced with these conditions. I believe that this demonstrates even more clearly the need for an established regime in which the Prime Minister routinely demands a commitment from his incoming Minister in line with the investigator's proposal. Mr President, I would like to It cannot be ruled out that, at this very moment, some former minister is sitting in front of the television or computer screen and listening to our debate tensely. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to stress most forcefully that if it were to prove in future that the unregulated model which the KU is now advocating in order to ensure the KU's scrutiny would not prove sufficient, binding legislation may be necessary. So listen carefully! In the KU10, the committee states quite clearly that, in that case, legislation should be eligible. Hopefully it won't be necessary. As Björn von Sydow pointed out earlier, the KU makes a very clear mark. In addition, the negative attention that a refusal to comply with the KU's call, not least in the media, has so far acted as sufficient deterrence and sanction, as well as in a case. With those words, Mr President, I request approval of the committee's notification in the KU10. I hope I've scared up sitting and departed ministers enough for them to come when the KU calls.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-975	Mr President, I would like to We have heard a lot of interesting contributions in this debate today. I was going to pick up some of the report, which is of a somewhat less dramatic nature but still important. In the KU10 report, the KU has also examined the issue of consular support for detainees abroad. In this case, the Government Office has submitted statistics on the 2014 cases concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' cases of consular support for detainees. The investigation concerned 20 of these cases. During the review, a case has been noted where there appears initially to have been confusion about the foreign authority's obligation to assist a prisoner. This concerned a person who was not a Swedish citizen but who, according to a family member, had a permanent residence permit in Sweden. Under international law, a State such as Sweden has the right to intervene diplomatically in order to protect the interests of its citizens in the country of residence. This is also reflected in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. However, it is up to the individual state to decide whether to intervene for the benefit of the individual or not. It is good that this opportunity exists, because we know that there are people who travel from Sweden to other countries where they end up in difficult situations for different reasons. It may then be helpful for these persons in custody to receive a certain but still limited financial assistance but, above all, to be assisted by, for example, consulates or missions to engage in a dialogue with their relatives or to obtain advice and suggestions for defenders who could represent them in the future processes in cases where the country of stay would fail in these respects. Who, then, is covered by this aid? In order to benefit from the assistance, the first condition is that the person concerned has been deprived of his or her freedom by decision of a court or other authority. The Consular Financial Assistance Act states that a Swedish citizen residing in Sweden or a refugee or stateless person residing in Sweden may be entitled to consular financial assistance. Furthermore, it is clear that a Swedish citizen who is not resident in Sweden or a foreigner residing in Sweden who is not a stateless person or a refugee can receive such assistance only if there are special reasons. The considerations taken are, for example, whether the person in custody is closely related to someone who is a Swedish citizen or resident in Sweden, how long the person in custody has lived in Sweden and whether there may be equivalent consular support to be obtained by other means, for example through a country of citizenship. I will also mention that consultations are taking place between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Office in such cases. Mr President, I would like to The KU has concluded and states in the report that it is clear from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' guidance on detention or assistance in criminal matters and from Section 8 of the Government Office's regulations on consular financial assistance and so on that a mission or consulate must inform the Government Office as soon as the authority becomes aware that a Swedish citizen or a resident refugee or stateless person in Sweden has been detained in the Office's area of activity. In the case of foreigners residing in Sweden who are not refugees or stateless persons, the audit states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs usually contacts the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when such a person requests consular support. According to the Constitutional Committee, it can be considered if this arrangement should not also be reflected in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' guidance. In the light of the foregoing, I request that the report be added to the file.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-984	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. The current proposal involves legislative changes to Swedish law in order to implement an EU directive that states that regulated professions and licence professions should apply throughout the EU area. There is already an old directive in force on this, and it is now to be reformed. The change in the EU Directive means that the provisions are more horizontal than sectorally oriented. Instead of individual rules for each occupational group, the rules should become more general. It is possible, Mr President, that this reform will make the whole directive more rational and easier to apply. The present proposal therefore changes Swedish law in order to implement the EU Directive. Since we are opposed to the EU directive, we are also opposed to the changes in Swedish law. I have noticed that the consultation bodies that have expressed their views on the proposal seem to be positive – the question then is whether they have got into the proposal properly, it was a lot of 300 – 400 pages, if I remember correctly. Mr President, I would like to After all, we have called for this directive to be rejected earlier and we are doing so now. The reason at the time was that the proposal would mean a lower standard for our regulated professions, i.e. that the requirements would be lowered for our regulated professions and that the whole proposal would mean far-reaching interference with national interests. We are also using the same justification today. In the present proposal, we have reacted in particular to the language requirements laid down in the directive. Once again, I believe that the bill is unclearly written, and it is associated with inconvenience to come to what is really meant. However, if we have understood correctly, language checks can only be carried out when other tests have already been carried out, which is a questionable procedure. In addition, regular language tests should be performed, for example, when patient safety is relevant, which sounds good. But how and what requirements these checks should contain are obscured, there is not a word about this in the letter. Mr President, I would like to Page 162 states in the proposal on the European Professional Card and when this can be issued. And here we come to something that we find totally unacceptable. Professional cards may be issued on the grounds that the processing has taken too long. If the relevant authority has not been able to approve a professional card after one month, he or she must still receive the professional card – completely automatically. This card will therefore be issued only on a long-term basis. We can never accept this. Mr President, I would like to The Legislative Council also strongly criticises the present proposal. In fact, I have never seen such strong criticism from the Law Council against any other proposal. The criticism mainly concerns the way in which the whole proposal is implemented, the lack of clarity of the regulatory authority and the grounds and authorities to be affected by the whole proposal. So it is not only a bad proposal in essence, we think, but it is a poorly worked-out proposal and there are a lot of built-in carelessness and ambiguities. I will give a brief example of the Council's criticism. On p. 420 the Law Council writes the following: The referral states that no full inventory of existing appropriations has been made. In view of the ambiguities that may result from the proposed regulation of regulatory powers, the proposals should not, without further consideration, be used as a basis for legislation. ..................................................... It was words and no songs, Mr President. This alone should result in the government withdrawing the whole proposal and doing it again. We will probably be against it even after such a revision, but the criticism from the Law Council can still be mitigated a little. Another aspect of this with the Professional Qualifications Directive – which has not been mentioned before – is that perhaps there are ten regulated professions left in our country. The other professions are free for all EU citizens to work because of the free movement of labour. So not many professions will be involved at all.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-998	Mr President, I would like to I've had to jump in like this at the eleventh hour for Daniel Riazat because he's home sick. But I hope it's going to be okay anyway. The proposal we are now discussing proposes legislation regulating the directive's provisions that a professional has the right to temporarily pursue a regulated profession in Sweden if he is legally established in another country within the EEA or Switzerland. Several consultation bodies have called for clarification as to what should be regarded as temporary professional practice so that it does not become a matter of false establishment. For example, the Health Care Association and the Swedish Nursing Association have proposed a three-month deadline. The government's answer is that there are links between the Professional Qualifications Directive and the Services Directive. With regard to the Services Directive, the European Court of Justice has stated that no fixed time limits should be set. Whether the provision of a service is temporary or temporary shall always be determined on a case-by-case basis. According to the Government, this should also guide the professional qualification directive. At the same time, the government recognises that it is not self-evident that such a link exists between the various directives. The European Court of Justice has not yet ruled on the application of the Professional Qualifications Directive. There is reason to be restrictive in the future and to set a clear limit to what may be regarded as temporary professional practice in regulated professions. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-MahLoha1DcDgPmAbEFFbG8	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are dealing with the UbU6 proposal of the Committee on Education on the implementation of the modernised Professional Qualifications Directive, which involves the adoption by Parliament of a new law on the recognition of professional qualifications and amendments to eight different laws. I would like to start by calling for the proposals in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Very briefly and simplistically, this issue is about how citizens of EU Member States can move across national borders and still have the right to work and work in a so-called regulated profession, a profession for which they have trained or acquired qualifications, and that this can be done in an orderly manner. One of the objectives of the European Union is to remove obstacles to the free movement of persons and services between Member States. The EU internal market with the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital is a key element of EU cooperation. It can strengthen the economic development and growth of the EU as a whole, strengthen Member States' economies and bring more people to work across Europe. In addition to the macroeconomic perspective, however, there is also an individual perspective on this. It also increases the individual freedom and the ability of EU citizens to work, reside and live in other EU countries. The purpose of the Qualification Directive is to make it easier for those wishing to pursue a so-called regulated profession in a country other than their home country within the EU. In short, a regulated profession means that, for example, certain training or professional experience is required for the pursuit of the profession. Mr President, I would like to Union law adopted in the form of a directive is the duty of Sweden as a Member State of the EU to transpose into national law. The recognition of professional qualifications is not a new issue either. The original professional qualification directive of 2006 has previously been transposed into Swedish law by means of adjustments to the laws governing the exercise of the respective profession. The implementation of the current directive has been preceded by a consultation process in which committees and Parliament have first discussed the Commission's so-called Green Paper – a kind of consultation document – in an opinion, then subsidiarity-tested the Commission's proposal and finally consulted the government when the directive was negotiated. On the question of the control of language skills, highlighted by one of the motions, the committee notes that the provisions on language skills are not new but were introduced by the original professional qualification directive. The committee is pleased that these provisions are now being clarified. However, the exercisers do not have a description of the regular language controls. The committee notes that the Government's proposal considers the possibility of introducing such checks for certain professions and that in such cases, according to the Government, these will be provided for in the specific provisions governing the exercise of the profession and not in the general law that we are now dealing with. There is therefore no reason now to deal with the matter in detail in connection with the present proposal. In this context, the committee would also like to emphasise that neither the directive nor the new law confer any rights in terms of employment, but rather the recognition of professional qualifications. Finally, the motionaries highlight the Council's views on, among other things, the new constitutional structure proposed by the government as well as the design of the authorisations and the text of the law itself. The committee has looked at this and notes that the Government has satisfied the Council's views in certain parts and that the Government has presented its assessments and considerations in the other parts. The committee also notes that the Government intends to come back to the new structure, if necessary, as well as any adjustments to the appropriations. With that, Mr President, I would once again like to support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-1013	Mr President, I would like to It is not always the case, but I may well say that I have taken my starting point for this speech in a lot of what Håkan Bergman has already referred to. We will see – repetition is the mother of knowledge! This report, the implementation of the modernised Professional Qualifications Directive, is a very technical report which proposes a new law on the common recognition of professional qualifications in the EU. This report describes legal balances in this area, but for those of us who do not deal with this kind of legal quibble in everyday life, mobility is the important and essential thing to take into account. This is about the possibility for trained and skilled persons to pursue their regulated profession in a country other than that in which they have obtained their professional qualification – either as self-employed or as an employed person. The EU is associated with the four freedoms – the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. As we have already heard, these freedoms are at the heart of the internal market. Above all, it is perhaps, in all honesty, the free movement of goods that has come the longest. However, efforts are under way to remove barriers and improve the conditions for mobility in other areas. As regards the mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications, it is enshrined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union that it shall apply. Over the course of 40 years, this has been gradually further developed in order to constantly bring about a better adaptation to the world we live in now and to the vision that exists for the European Union and that we want to realise. We have similar systems that operate in the same spirit but where it is not the EU that is pushing. In the field of education, we have the Bologna Process. This work began 15 years ago and today covers a total of 47 countries that have joined forces to harmonise their higher education systems. This aims to facilitate student mobility and job opportunities, but also to increase Europe's attractiveness as an educational region. This is good, and in my opinion, this collaboration within the Bologna process has also been an important tool that helped to improve the quality of Swedish education. I do not share Robert Stenkvist's view and his concern that we will lower the requirements for professional qualifications. On the contrary, this has been an injection that has given positive signs in the field of higher education. Similarly, this directive, which was originally drafted in 2005, concerns the mutual recognition of professions. It is this directive that forms the basis of today's report, and it is a question of modernising the directive. This must be seen as something positive, especially because it is important for mobility within the EU, but also because at the same time we ensure that we do not circumvent legitimate professional qualifications requirements. In fact, what is stipulated is that there should be professional qualification requirements. My colleague from the Swedish Democrats mentioned, among other things, the lack of clarity about being able to control language requirements when recognising professional qualifications. But the fact is that those opportunities will exist. The government has even written in the bill that it intends to introduce and establish this. What is also positive, and which has not been highlighted before, is that this amendment will set up an alert mechanism in the system, which means restrictions or prohibitions on professionals who are not fit to pursue their profession in another country. This is something that has not been in place but which provides security for us as citizens. The Swedish Democrats also address the Council's criticism as an argument for rejecting the bill. Of course, we Moderates think it is important to take into account the views of the Law Council, absolutely. However, we understand it more than that this concerns, above all, the constitutional structure of the new legislation itself – whether it is general, horizontal or vertical, as my colleague mentioned, and whether the law is difficult to understand or not. At this point, we are prepared to support the Government's proposals. We make that assessment in the light of the fact that the government in the bill promises to evaluate and follow up these issues. This also applies to the question raised by the Left Party, where the government, in the same way, says that it will follow this so that there is no negative consequence. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to point out that the new law will enter into force on 15 April 2016, not on 18 January as it is wrongly stated on, among other things, the website of the National Board of Health and Welfare. In connection with school guides, I usually ask the school students who has the highest decision-making power in Sweden – the government or the Riksdag? Then they answer in the choir: the parliament. So this is well known among our students in school but apparently not among all the authorities, who have gone a little ahead of themselves and in this case relied on the original proposal put forward by the government. Provided that the Riksdag decides in accordance with the committee's proposal, it is therefore 15 April 2016 that applies for entry into force and nothing else. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-e80566190c6bd7c5-1023	Mr President, I would like to EU cooperation is extremely important in many aspects of democracy and peace and in order to be able to take a strong stand for the climate and against organised crime. Above all, it is important for free movement, for trade and for people to move throughout Europe. Cooperation in Europe makes us stronger. We are in favour of the modernisation of the directive for precisely the reason – that it strengthens the internal market within Europe as it benefits competition and thus the ability of EU countries to both grow and prosper. The purpose of the Qualification Directive is to make it easier for those wishing to pursue a so-called regulated profession in a country other than their home country. It increases freedom of movement across national borders and thus becomes an important part of the internal market. This is important, because we have major challenges, not only in the Swedish labour market but also in the European one. Every fifth recruitment attempt is failing in Europe today, and there is a great shortage of labour in many professions. The forecast shows that this will continue. The Statistical Office has forecasts for education and the labour market. They indicate that in 2025 there will be a major shortage in Sweden in three licensed professions: one in five midwives, one in four specialist nurses and one in four biomedical analysts will be missing in 2025. This shows the need for mobility but also better matching and training efforts here in Sweden as well as increased mobility within Europe. It is important to improve and enable the supply of skills to increase mobility in Europe. This creates the conditions for more jobs, better competitiveness and thus increased tax revenues. The directive not only makes it easier for EU citizens to come to Sweden to work. The fact that it is a directive also makes it easier for Swedish citizens and workers to go to other EU countries to work and gain experience that contributes to Europe. In some cases, people move back home with strong experiences, but in others they stay in the country. There is nothing wrong with that, on the contrary, because it contributes to a strong internal market where mobility is important. Mobility must be facilitated in order to study and work throughout Europe. We in politics must be very clear that these are driving forces that must be rewarded. A mobile labour market is needed to boost growth and improve matching. It benefits both society at large, as we have talked about, and the individual's ability to move and gain other experiences. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to highlight a perspective linked to the time we are currently living in, with closed borders and protectionism increasing in Europe. Then it is important that we enable people to move across Europe's borders and talk about a common Europe, where we create growth together and where skills and experiences can be exchanged. It drives development and quality forward. It creates prosperity, not just for a few, but for everyone. These are some of the reasons why the Center Party supports the report and calls for the motion to be rejected.
