i-a31a5e843344e1f3-7	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members and listeners! Karin Enström has asked me how a flight operation with JAS 39 Gripen is not compatible with international law and how a military operation against ISIL/ Daish in Syria is not compatible with international law. I would like to make it clear at the outset that I have not formulated myself in the way Karin Enström describes in her questions, and I will therefore comment on the issue in a broader context. As regards Swedish aid to France, Sweden was among the first EU countries to respond to the French request under Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union. The Swedish support is requested and effective and has also been welcomed by France. In addition, Sweden is a member of the core group of the coalition against Daish, which brings together some twenty of the coalition's major contributors to share assessments of the coalition's efforts and ensure that the coalition's objectives are achieved. Sweden's contribution to the coalition and also the support to France under Article 42(7) is therefore based on demand but also on what Sweden does best. The Government will evaluate our contribution later in 2016 and review how Sweden can continue to contribute in an effective way. Finally, I would like to point out that Sweden has a long tradition of safeguarding the rules of the United Nations Charter on the sovereignty of states over its own territory. In my opinion, it is particularly important and responsible to make careful consideration, but it is also important to listen to other countries before acting by military means in situations without a Chapter VII mandate.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-14	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply. As late as 26 January, we had a topical debate in this House on Sweden's participation in the fight against ISIL/ Daish. There I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, among other things, what the government's analysis of the threat posed by Daish and other similar organisations to Swedish society looks like and what concrete measures the government had taken in connection with UN Security Council Resolution 2249, which came after the government had decided on the response France would receive to its question of support. We also debated how Sweden should live up to its responsibility for combating terrorism. The Minister for Foreign Affairs then referred, among other things, to what is said in the interpellation response, namely that Sweden was among the first to respond to the French request and that Sweden is part of the core group in the coalition against Daish. That's good, and we know about it. At the same time, the question of how we can fight Daish together is more topical than ever. We have seen that they are not only acting in what they consider to be their core area, the so-called caliphate, but that they have also designated Europe and ordinary citizens here as legitimate objectives in their fight. Europol has recently announced that they believe that Europe is now living under the greatest threat of terrorism in over ten years and that Daish is planning large-scale attacks in Europe. There are many parts here. We have discussed everything from how we can combat those who travel to participate in the battles and combat the fine ansis of activities to – of course – how we, together in the framework of the European Union and the United Nations, can do the most good. My interpellation is about the motives the government had when deciding what response France would receive at its request. On the basis of what was said at the press conference and what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said on other occasions, the component or part relating to international law was also part of the decision. I do not really think that I have received an answer to what I wanted, namely, what the grounds for concern were. I think the Foreign Minister will say that it was an overall assessment. I hope it was, but which parts were the most important in the assessment? This is important from many perspectives, both in terms of the outcome we can get, and in principle in terms of how we interpret Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is also about the government's view of the responsibility that Sweden has in the fight against international terrorism. Then we can get into international law, where there are always different interpretations. I wonder if the Foreign Minister can say how the government has interpreted UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2249 based on possible use of force in Syria and Iraq.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-24	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! The November terrorist attack in Paris is referred to as the worst attack on France on French soil since World War II. France, as the first EU country, has ever activated Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union. Sweden was among the first Member States to reply to France, after several consultations with the parliamentary parties. Swedish support is among the most substantial – we know that now that we have seen what others contribute. The military components consist of strategic air transport, tactical air transport and contributions to crisis management operations, such as in Mali to relieve France, but also defence equipment support, which is being prepared in a special decision-making order at the moment. What we offer is in demand, in accordance with international law and effective. Our contribution has been welcomed by France, as I have said earlier in this House. It is quite right that an overall assessment is made that includes everything from what we do best to what we can practically contribute by looking at security and economy. All the different factors are taken into account to finally assess this. Sweden always wants our military efforts to be supported primarily by an explicit Chapter VII mandate from the UN Security Council. In this case, the Security Council has not given such a mandate, and then you have to lean on another basis of international law before you act. Such a basis may be the invitation to assist another state. This is the case with the engagement in Iraq, where today we have a Swedish armed force participating in an educational effort within the framework of the coalition against Daish. The main task of the Swedish force is to help educate the Iraqi armed forces and the Kurdish peshmerga forces in order to be able to resist Daish's advance. UNSCR 2249 reflects the Security Council's appeal to combat, by all means permitted under international law and the UN Charter, the threats to international peace and security posed by, inter alia, Daish terrorist attacks. However, it does not contain an explicit mandate of violence. Sweden should not be ashamed that we are cautious when we are going to act by military means in situations where there is no Security Council mandate. On the contrary, it is responsible action. Once again, I can only remind both the Moderates and others here of the letter that the French Government and the Minister for Defence wrote to the Swedish Government on 20 January. There he says that he wishes to express his and the French Government's gratitude for Sweden's important contribution to the substantial support that the Swedish Government has given following France's call for Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. As he describes it: Sweden reaffirms its commitment and responsibility for Europe's security through its support for our bilateral relationship and within the framework of EU and UN cooperation. I am convinced that France and the French can be both polite and honest in their comments on what Sweden has contributed.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-35	Madam President, I would like The French Minister for Defence is polite and courteous, like his colleagues. I do not think, in itself, that we would have received any other thanks regardless of what our answer had been. I would like to return to the fundamental question of how the government views the use of Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. This is the first time it has been used, possibly not the way it was originally planned. Nevertheless, it was invoked by France when they asked for aid, and now, as I have said, France has received different answers. I have said before both here in this House and in other contexts that we on the moderate side were not satisfied. We thought it was inadequate. We would have liked to see a larger substantial military component in the response we would have given. We also know that there were requests that were quite specific. One of the requests was precisely the competence that Sweden has and has shown in the past, namely that the search function with JAS 39 Gripen could be useful. We discussed these issues during a number of meetings. I want to get to the heart of the matter. There was a desire for this. Then, of course, an assessment should be made as to whether it is possible to do so. We were led to believe that it was possible to do this on the basis of the preparedness of the Swedish Armed Forces. What I am looking for in this debate is to get the Foreign Minister's answer to what was the government's motivation for the decision that was reached and which was presented on 16 December. We are in favour of an overall assessment, but what are the main reasons for this overall assessment? Was it about a grey area in international law, the ability of the Swedish Armed Forces, resources or something else? That is what I want to ask you. As I said, it is about the answer to France. But it also contains what has been discussed, namely what Sweden's responsibility is in the fight against international terrorism. We are helping France, but by helping France we are also helping ourselves, other EU countries and hopefully also the countries most affected by this violence.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-41	Madam President, I would like At a time of concern and growing tensions in the world and in the neighbourhood, it is particularly important to give credibility to European solidarity. The Swedish Declaration of Solidarity confirms that Sweden will not remain passive if another EU country or Nordic country suffers a disaster or attack and that we also expect other countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Therefore, Sweden was among the first to help France and give a message about our support. We also belong to the Member States that make the most substantial contributions – I have repeated that many times. What the French Government is particularly grateful for is support for France through the strategic flight hours, the reinforced contributions to the EU's efforts and the extension of the Malian operation, which was also one of the first to which France publicly expressed the need, namely so-called backfill of operations, not least in Africa. Therefore, what I perceive as some kind of sneeze to the Swedish support from the bourgeois side is a little strange. In the case of JAS aircraft, air reconnaissance was included as a component of the French request, which contained a list of possible operations, but this was far from the only one on the list. The first thing they expressed was other things, so this was by no means superior. The Swedish aid corresponds to several of the specific elements within which France has wished to support it. We will follow the development and see what additional needs may arise and be found in 2016. Right now, there are many different assessments, not least military ones. Is this the most important thing anyone can do? Some withdraw because they think it is Russian domination in the airspace and that this may not be the most important thing to contribute. Others make other assessments. As I said before, it is about the whole, and it is impossible to talk about exactly how to make an overall assessment. You take in all these things and also what can be realized in the near future, what you can quickly contribute and signal, what you can actually get through politically and what you can quickly get in place. We participate in the fight against Daish in several different ways. Already when the government took office in autumn 2014, we began to explore the possibility of expanding efforts in support of democracy and human rights and against Daish. Let's do it in three ways. We act politically to get a long-term solution to the underlying political problems in the region that have given Daish a foothold. We support political processes that can eliminate the breeding ground for terrorist organisations such as Daish. We also support the UN peace process in Syria under Staffan de Mistura, including through two Swedish diplomats, and we are working towards inclusive and cohesive Iraq. We also give support to women, to give them one voice in the peace negotiations. Secondly, we are acting humanitarianly to resolve the emergency crisis on the ground, to alleviate suffering and distress. We are providing comprehensive humanitarian aid. We have contributed SEK 1.9 billion in humanitarian aid for the Syria crisis. Now we increase it by an additional SEK 1.7 billion over five years. Thirdly, we take responsibility through generous reception of refugees. We have received 120 000 asylum seekers from Syria. Since last autumn, we are also working along a military track, including in the core group of 20 countries, led by the United States, which has been created to fight Daish. As I said, we have nothing to be ashamed of. We will continue on all these tracks in the future, to be effective and to offer a whole.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-51	Madam President, I would like This issue is too big to point out whether to be ashamed or not, but rather what we are doing that can produce real results on the ground, which of course is many parts. As far as much needs to be done, we do not disagree. There is not a single measure that will resolve it, for example in terms of peace in Syria and thus a smaller space for an organisation like Daish to continue to run its violent campaigns. That's a lot of parts. It is still a matter that remains. We had a specific request concerning both European solidarity and Sweden's responsibility in the fight against terrorism. I maintain that we felt that the answer was inadequate and would have liked to see a greater military substantial part of the contribution. We realize it costs money. There was little left in the appropriation for international peace-promoting efforts, and that is why we were also prepared to say that we could provide more money to make such an important contribution. I take note of what the Foreign Minister said at the beginning of the reply just now, namely that the government is now reviewing and considering whether there is something more or something else that Sweden can do further. I'm sure it might be necessary. I want to make it clear that we can both do more and do more, and we will have to do it for a very long time, with a wide range of measures, from what the Foreign Minister described with a political track and a humanitarian track, where Sweden should be a generous donor, to also a military track.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-54	Madam President, I would like We have talked about this so many times, Karin Enström. We have also discussed this effort with the opposition parties. In fact, I think that you are proposing only one further measure, and that is precisely the JAS plan. Otherwise, I have not heard that there have been any other suggestions as to what we could do further. I have seen that there was a great consensus about following these three tracks, i.e. a political, humanitarian and military track. As I have said, I think we are giving substantial support. It is in demand, in accordance with international law and effective. It is something that we can immediately begin to realize and that we are working on. We are very active in the political trail. We work with France and have prepared our answer with France. We therefore know that this is a demand and that it is actions that they consider useful and appropriate. I hope we can say that we agree on the importance of providing good and substantial support to France because it is important for peace and stability in Iraq and Syria. It is also important for our own safety. I also hope that we can look to the future. It is good if we can have good discussions on how to combat terrorism and also stand up for democracy and human rights. When the situation is so troubled, the Swedish tradition of having political unity on these issues is an extra great asset. I hope that we can continue to safeguard this tradition.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-58	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel and Robert Hannah have in two interpellations asked questions about the conflict in Syria and the situation of minorities in war Syria. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The conflict in Syria is a human disaster. The brutality of the A sad regime and Daish is indiscriminately affecting the civilian population. No one escapes, whether Sunnites, Shiites, Kurds, Christians, or other groups. Assaults are also committed by other armed groups. Sweden calls on all parties to comply with the Security Council resolutions adopted on violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in Syria. In accordance with the Geneva communiqué – which the UN Security Council has called for – it is stressed that minorities must be assured that their rights are respected. Very serious international crimes are committed in Syria. We, together in the UN, have a responsibility to work to ensure that people in danger are protected, that there is an end to the conflict and that those responsible for the abuse are held accountable. This responsibility applies regardless of whether these crimes are categorized as genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. There is no hierarchy between them. The government, together with the other EU countries, has called on the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court. A special commission of inquiry, with the mandate of the UN Human Rights Council, has in vain asked to enter Syria. The government considers Daish to be a threat to international peace and security. Sweden is therefore part of the core group of the broad global coalition formed to fight Daish and promote long-term stability in Iraq and Syria. A difficult humanitarian situation has arisen as a result of the conflict in Syria. Since 2011, Sweden has contributed SEK 1.9 billion in humanitarian aid and received over 130 000 asylum seekers from Syria. This support is complemented by our new five-year Syrian crisis strategy, which includes assistance efforts of SEK 1.7 billion in Syria and its neighbours. The strategy clearly states that Sweden should not cooperate with the sad regime or armed groups. Since the outbreak of the conflict in 2011, Sweden has supported the political process that we hope will result in a political solution and peace in Syria. The government believes that a concerted representation of the opposition in the peace process is crucial for a sustainable political solution. However, groups listed as terrorist by the UN and/ or the EU – such as Daish, Hezbollah's armed arm and Al-Qaida-affiliated Jabhat al-Nusra – are groups that should not be included in a negotiation. The question of the right of people to self-determination is one of many issues that is expected to be discussed in the political process on the future of Syria. The UN envoy Staffan de Mistura has our full support and is assisted by, among others, two Swedes. We provide comprehensive support to strengthen women's participation in the negotiations and support the participation of civil society representatives in Geneva. Sweden has also had a special envoy for the Syrian crisis for some years, which is closely following developments. In our dialogue with key actors, we constantly emphasise the importance of including all parts of Syrian society in the political process, as well as respect for human rights and international law.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-65	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I am fully aware that Sweden with international aid supports the suffering in Syria very much. It makes me happy and makes me proud. That is why I thank the Minister for what he says in his reply on how vulnerable minorities are supported, above all, financially and with aid funds. From the answer, however, it appears that Sweden does not in any way wish to support armed groups in Syria. It is perfectly understandable that we do not want to support either the brutal regime or groups such as Al-Nusra or, for that matter, Daish. But what do you do when it comes to the other groupings? Does the government not intend in any way to support, for example, the secular and democratic self-defence group SDF, Syrian Democratic Forces, in northern Syria, which is largely made up of Kurds, Assyrians, Turkmen, Armenians and so on? In my view, peace is the basis for ultimately creating democracy in Syria, which presupposes that talks are held with as many parties as possible. On a number of occasions I have left a number of written questions to the Foreign Minister, and also to other ministers, about the work to achieve peace and to somehow find a solution to the terrible tragedy that is taking place in Syria. I would therefore like the Minister to state clearly which groups you might consider having talks with, because that is not quite clear. What she mentions in her reply is that one cannot imagine working with the regime and that one cannot imagine working with Al-Nusra or for that matter Daish. It is quite understandable that we do not want to cooperate. But having talks with, for example, the regime may be necessary – absolutely not supporting in any way – to achieve peace. If we look at the Kurdish-dominated alliance in northern Syria, it has succeeded in reaching a ceasefire with the regime, precisely because they have had talks. But it stays there. I believe that this is essential in order to achieve peace in the long term. I have asked four questions, and I was going to repeat three of them and hope to get some more clarification answers. Firstly, does the Minister intend to act for talks with various fighting groups to promote ceasefires? If so, what groups might you consider talking to? Secondly, what measures are the Minister and the Government taking to prevent Swedish aid from benefiting the wrong groups? In this case, I am thinking mainly of other Salifist groups. Thirdly, what role is Sweden considered to play during the peace negotiations, and what is Sweden doing to ensure that the wrong forces do not have too much influence?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-75	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that the Foreign Minister's reply contains good information for those who have asked questions about the general starting points for Syria. But the headline of my interpellation is the situation of the Assyrian people in Al Hasakah province. The Foreign Minister's response does not mention either the Assyrians/Syrians, the Al-Hasakah province or the YPG forces. It is remarkable that I receive answers to quite different questions from those I have asked. Madam President, I would like Moreover, the Assyrian people are reduced by the Foreign Minister to be called Christians. I wonder why the Foreign Minister chooses to write about Kurds but not about Assyrians. The name, I can tell you, was first used by Saddam Hussein and his predecessors – and later also by al-Asad-Assad and other people – to reduce the people's rights of the Assyrian people. Now the Foreign Minister is using the same expression. I therefore wonder: would the Minister for Foreign Affairs accept being reduced to being called Christian instead of Swedish? Madam President, I would like I will be obliged to submit the same or similar questions as in the interpellation if I do not get an answer to them here today. The Assyrian people, one of the indigenous peoples of the Middle East, are being exterminated by radical Islamism. One of the few areas in the Middle East where, despite the ongoing genocide and despite the ongoing war in Syria, the people still maintain an Assyrian culture in fact is in al-Hasakah province in Syria. In order for the Assyrian people to survive in the long term, it is of the utmost importance that their rights be defended there and that the genocide of Isis on Assyrians and other Christian peoples, as well as on Yazidians, be stopped. Recently, the situation in Al Hasakah and especially in the town of Qamishli has become even more difficult. Reports from Amnesty show that both Isis and other groups, such as the Communist YPG forces, commit war crimes against the minorities of Al Hasakah province. In Qamishli, the Communist YPG forces have attacked the Assyrian self-defense forces on at least one documented occasion. I know that Al Hasakah province is one of the provinces in Syria that has been comparatively most spared. If there is any province where the Swedish government can actually make a real difference, I think it is there. It is of the utmost importance to have the courage to work in that particular region, because that is where the minorities are. Promoting peace and self-defense for minorities in this particular region is very important. The questions I asked in the interpellation, and to which I still want answers, are what the Foreign Minister is doing to ensure the survival of the Assyrian/Syrian community and the right to self-determination in precisely the Al-Hasakah province, and what right to self-determination and own defence forces the Foreign Minister believes the Assyrian/Syrian people have in precisely Al-Hasakah province. I would also like to know what the Foreign Minister thinks about the Amnesty reports on the crimes of the YPG forces there. What does the Foreign Minister intend to do to ensure that YPG forces in Syria stop committing crimes against minorities? It is of the utmost importance that all minorities in Syria that exist in these particular provinces come together peacefully and are allowed to survive in the region.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-83	Madam President, I would like I don't have to thank you for the answer because I haven't written any interpellation. However, I agree very much with what the Foreign Minister says about the need for peace in Syria and that minorities in the country, like all the inhabitants of Syria of course, must be able to have a new future in peace and stability. Of course, there is also the need to have an inclusive process of peace in Syria, but that it cannot be so inclusive as to enter into talks with groupings such as Daish. There are some things I think are important in a somewhat so when updated analysis, as we should do in Sweden and also in the rest of the world, of what is happening in Syria and how one could improve and deepen a strategy to work long-term for peace. The first is what is now happening in Aleppo. When Putin entered the war in Syria in November, the facts on the ground changed from the air, one might say, in a way that now in practice means that the government side has soon called Aleppo. What happens if it happens now? It is not very long; it is a few kilometres away. The first thing that happens, of course, is a huge risk of a humanitarian disaster. We again have a risk of refugee flows northward towards Turkey in the millions class. In addition, it may in practice mean the collapse of the uprising in northern Syria, with the result that the military exercises will spread southward towards Damascus. This means that the two large areas of the population in Syria are at risk of new battles and a humanitarian meltdown with huge flows of refugees. I think it is important, Madam President, for the outside world and also the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other European countries to start preparing for a new wave of refugees and for what reality could actually be with only al-Asad-Assad, Daish and the Kurdish forces in northern Syria – and no moderate rebel forces. It will have some implications and change things. The second, Madam President, is that refugee camps around Syria – in Turkey, Jordan, Iraqi Kurdistan and so on – are not temporary. They're permanent. I looked at the latest figures from the UNHCR, and there are 4.6 million registered Syrian refugees. One in five of them is under the age of 12. So we are talking about nearly 1 million Syrians living in tents, gardens and so on in neighbouring countries, under very difficult circumstances, and not even 12 years of age. It is clear that the issue must be addressed in some way in the long term, i.e. how to manage refugee camps as well. I think you have to start thinking about how the camps are run. If we talk about Palestinian refugees, we can see that there are 5 million, and the Syrian refugees are almost 5 million. Then there are Iraqi internally displaced persons on it. The bottom line is that the United Nations is today a good man for over 10 million people in the Middle East. This is, of course, unsustainable in the long term. I believe that this problem must be included in the analysis of peace in Syria.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-89	Madam President, I would like I felt I had to go into the debate to balance the discussion a little. I can begin by saying that since the summer of 2014, we have a terrorist organisation called Daish and have ravaged Iraq, Syria and the Kurdish areas. Daish is a terrorist organisation that has committed terrible crimes against humanity, as the Foreign Minister has also emphasised. It is a terrible terrorist organisation that has attacked civilians and executed men, women and children. They have kidnapped women and girls and sold them on the street in Mosul and used them as sex slaves. It is an organization that has executed and assaulted Assyrians/Syrians, Turkmens, Shia Muslims, Sunni Muslims, Christians, Kurdish Yazidians– yes, all who do not fit in their world. Against this terrorist organization grew a resistance movement, a force of young women and men who took the fight. They took the fight and fought for all the ethnic groups in the region. Thousands of people have sacrificed their lives in the fight against this terrible terrorist organisation. It is therefore a bit unfortunate when this terrorist organisation is mentioned in the same context as the people – it is young people, girls and boys – who have fought against it. I find it a little unfortunate that it is referred to in the same context. Then it goes without saying that those who commit crimes and those who violate human rights and freedoms should be condemned. I have also taken note of the Amnesty report which criticises, among other things, the YPG forces in this case. It is believed that they have violated human rights and rights and have taken over certain villages in the areas. However, I would like to emphasise that when we talk about the PYD/YPG, it must be understood that the PYD, the democratic autonomy that exists in the region, consists of 85 organisations, political parties and ethnic groups. These are Kurds, Arabs, Assyrians, Yazidians, Turkmens and Armenians. This also includes the Syrian Supreme Council, democratic Assyrian parties and Bet-Nahrain-Nahrain and others. Here we try to find coexistence in order to find a model for living together. Every item that exists is represented by the groups I mentioned. Today, there are three official languages in the various cantons of the area called Rojava. It is Kurdish, Assyrian and Arabic. We have 13 ministers, and among them these communities are represented. YPG is Rojava's defense force and not exactly PYD. YPG is not just a PYD supporter. There is a group called Sutoro forces, and there are also al-Sanit forces and others in the area. There is an example of a case where it has been observed that two people belonging to YPG carried out an act in Teltemer and murdered a military leader. The two people were imprisoned and imprisoned for 20 years. Of course YPG and PYD have big challenges. They need Sweden's help. We must continue to support the democratic forces in order to ensure that a democratic system is built up.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you all so much! These are very insightful and wise opinions. I can agree that we're getting a little trapped in the format. When you try to answer several questions with a slightly different focus, it can be a too general answer. That's why I'm gonna try to be a little more precise. At the same time, I thank you for the confidence shown to the government and our role and the hopes and expectations of what the government can play. In this respect, we are first and foremost committed to a UN-led process. It defines, among other things, who constitutes opposition. Who are they to be regarded as terrorist organisations? How will the negotiations take place? In addition, we are in an EU track where we are trying to operate via the EU to push on. We were as late as last week in London to discuss with all those who are keen on a solution in Syria and want to contribute financially to resolving the crisis in Syria. There we discussed, among other things, an issue related to refugee flows and to helping those countries that are now receiving a large number of refugees. There, for example, Jordan has introduced something called Jordan Compact. It is simply a way of trying to look a little more long-term at it and try to find measures such as education and jobs for those living in large refugee camps. It is about being more constructive and very practical in how to channel our money and support effectively. That is where we are in the discussions. We do it through our foreign authorities, and so on. That's how we can work. One example is the military operation that we are doing in Iraq. There we can also contribute bilaterally. We are also making it clear with our Syria strategy how we can see that we can support both the political and the humanitarian and the military tracks. It is clear in our Syrian crisis strategy that Sweden should not cooperate with the Al-Assad regime. The Swedish aid efforts will be carried out by UN agencies and other organisations. They are also responsible for ensuring that money does not fall into the wrong hands. The Al-Assad regime has primary responsibility for the conflict in Syria and has committed widespread abuse of the civilian population. Therefore, al-Asad-Assad is as inappropriate a partner for Sweden and the EU as Daish is. The regime has also promoted Daish's emergence by tackling opposition-controlled areas in the first place. Groups listed as terrorist by the UN or the EU such as Daish, the armed arm of Hezbollah and Jabhat al-Nusra should not be included in the negotiation of a political solution to the conflict. With regard to the protection zones for Assyrians in the Al Hasakah province, I agree with Robert Hannah that it is high time to do something to ensure the protection of civilians including the Assyrians. However, the issue of the establishment of protection zones in Syria should be dealt with by the UN Security Council. Protection zones require that some countries take active responsibility for patrolling and securing them. Otherwise, there's a risk of death traps. Maintaining such protection zones when the conflict lines on the ground are not clearly defined and, moreover, as in Syria in constant change is very difficult. Experience with protected zones has not been so good. There is therefore a great deal of doubt as to whether we cannot ensure that a number of countries and the UN fully commit themselves to protection. It is an issue that we shall continue to discuss to see how best we can ensure the protection of civilians in Syria. We take this report very seriously. We will follow it up with our partners in the Daish coalition.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-105	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the addition! There is agreement on cooperation with the regime. There is no one in the Swedish parliament or any party that supports cooperation with a brutal regime like the one we have in Syria. There is no doubt about it. What I was doing earlier was talking to try to reach a truce. After all, it is the ceasefire that can enable humanitarian transport to the civilians in the areas controlled by regime troops. After all, it is a regime which, despite its brutality, wants to end the war because of the consequences and misery of the war. I think the Minister should perhaps clarify the government's position. Of course, there should be no cooperation. We all stand for that. On the other hand, one might try to reach some form of cease - fire talks even with such groups. The Minister spoke of the good control of where our aid money ends up. I have some examples of how Swedish aid money has ended up wrong in the past and how it ends up wrong today. Through Sida and the Swedish government, Swedish tax funds have ended up with two organisations that are clearly linked to the group Army of Conquest. It is a group in Syria influenced by Al-Qaida and the Muslim Brotherhood that has clear Salafist orientations. It's about Islamic Relief and the Syrian Recovery Trust Fund. These are means that have reached groups that in no way can be called very humane. The Army of Conquest includes al-Nusra, who also sees the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish State as a terrorist organisation. Swedish aid funds have gone there. That is regrettable. It's great if we can support people who have problems. But our aid money should not end up with terrorists. They do today. I was earlier on on something else in my speech. It was about the negotiations that are currently taking place, among other things, at the UN. Sweden wants to be an active part of, and I think that is good, trying to get negotiations that lead to peace. The problem is that the person representing the rebels in this f allet is called Mohammed Alloush, and he is the leader of the Army of Islam. It is a Salafist group in Syria that has interpretations supported by Saudi Arabia. It cannot in any way be regarded as representing democracy or the values that the West sees as self-evident in a democratic and humanitarian country. In addition, the pressure on Turkey has fallen. The alliance I spoke of earlier in northern Syria, the Syrian Democratic Forces, which stands for the main democratic movements, is being shut out. They've got a clear, extreme left-wing cleavage. But it is, after all, the groups in Syria that are seriously fighting for democracy, a secular society, independence and self-government. How can one fall under Turkey's pressure to shut them out and, at the same time, support the fact that the leader of the rebel negotiations is a brutal Islamist?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-113	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council for the clarifications. I look forward to the Foreign Minister following up on the Amnesty reports. I don't know what that could lead to. But I take what Amnesty says and write there very seriously. If the Foreign Minister goes to Erbil again, I recommend the Foreign Minister visit Café Eskilstuna. It is one of the largest café chains in Erbil, and it is owned by people who have returned after being refugees in Sweden. Unfortunately, the situation for the minorities of the Middle East is such that there are hardly any left in the Middle East. All peoples suffer at war, but those at risk of extinction are primarily minorities. They're the ones who can't defend themselves. What we have seen in the Middle East in recent decades is sectarianism, where protection has only been found in one's own group. This means that the groups that are the least and weakest will be hardest hit. In his reply, the Foreign Minister says that there is no difference between genocide and war crimes. I don't agree with that. Genocide leads to the extinction of a population and is also jus cogens. I therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is there not a difference in degree between the crime of genocide and other types of war crimes? In my view, genocide is jus cogens, and what Isis does to the Yazidi, the Assyrians and other ethnic groups is a worse crime against humanity than war crimes are. As far as Al Hasakah is concerned, it must be ensured that the groups that are there do not commit crimes against each other. It is a question of minorities, and Al Hasakah is one of the most peaceful war regions in Syria. There are two options. One is to establish a protection zone. I hope you look carefully at whether you should or not and whether it is worth it or not. Let me make a comparison. Since Isis' invasion of Iraq, one third of the Assyrian population has left Iraq. You don't protect them, they feel no security and they choose to leave the area. The very oldest Syrian Orthodox Church, which the Qur'an writes about, states that there are only 15,000 members left in the country. That was over half a million ten years ago. It is an ethnic uprising and genocide that has taken place. The second option is self-defense, that is to give them weapons so that they can protect themselves. If you can't work with protection zones, what else can you do? Can self-defense forces be set up? What can be done to ensure that the groupings that exist in the areas where minorities exist do not conflict with each other? I think it is of the utmost importance. I understand that Sweden cannot do everything, and Sweden does an incredible amount when it comes to humanitarian aid. Here, the Secretary of State has my full support. But I also believe that if it is somewhere where Sweden can influence, it is in the regions where there are minorities and many who listen. Café Eskilstuna is located in Iraqi Kurdistan for a reason. There are strong connections. The same applies to YPG forces where there are very strong links to Sweden. The Foreign Minister can make a real difference here. I would like to hear some comments on that.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-126	Madam President, I would like I do not understand the arguments of the Swedish Democrats that it is not the UN-oriented process under Staffan de Mistura that will try to bring some sort of ceasefire to an end, but Sweden will do so on its own. Sweden does not have the geopolitical weight to get these parties to sign a firm for peace. If the UN has not made it, why should we? Furthermore, we know that there is no interest from the Syrian regime in having talks, for the simple reason that one has the upper hand in the war. Furthermore, those who oppose the government in Syria are so divided that there is no one who can sign a firm and deliver peace. That is why the route of talks and the Geneva talks are probably not very fruitful, although they obviously need to be tested. Madam President, I would like My view is therefore that you should look much more at what you can do in concrete action, and there are two things that Sweden could do now. The first is, to relate to my previous speech and an article I wrote in Dagens Nyheter a year ago, that we have to look at how refugee camps can be organised and democratized, because these refugee camps are permanent, not temporary. We need to start looking at how decision-making takes place in the camps, what education looks like, what it is like about women's and children's rights, how it is about entrepreneurship and so on. These camps develop into cities, and there must be a thought for how that process can happen. The second is that, now that we are receiving more quota refugees, we should look at whether it is possible specifically to select endangered minorities, such as girls who are freed from Islamic state slavery, and give them quota status in Sweden.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-132	Madam President, I would like I would also like to emphasise the importance of following up Amnesty's October 2015 report. It is serious and important. It points to major problems in this area and unacceptable human rights abuses. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that she would follow up on this report. We see that the warring parties in the conflict are guilty of human rights violations. Then it is important that Sweden is a clear voice that says that it is unacceptable to violate human rights. We must say this clearly to all parties to the conflict and continue to stand up for the weak groups in the region: Assyrians/Syrians, Kurds, Kurdish Yazidians and others. We're gonna point out those who commit crimes and tell them it's not okay. It is important that Sweden maintains a dialogue with the democratic autonomy that exists in Rojava. A dialogue between Sweden and Rojava is important. It is also important to note that there is a talk going on with, among other things, the Association of Assyriska Riksförbundet in Sweden. It is necessary to continue working with these groups to develop a democratic area and a future democratic Syria.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-137	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your comments. It is very important that we carefully examine how aid funds are used and, as far as possible, always ensure that they do not fall into the wrong hands or go to wrong ends. Right now we have a UN-led process, and we support it in finding a peaceful solution to the conflict in Syria. We also contribute in many ways bilaterally in our contacts with the countries that receive many refugees, such as Jordan. Of course, we are also working through the EU to find ways forward. It is a very serious situation and a human tragedy, both in the Al Hasakah province and in other parts of Syria. People are suffering that is hard for us to fully understand. That is why this conflict must be brought to an end. As has been pointed out by several of you, it is important that we constantly update our knowledge and come up with more good ideas. I would like to mention what Fredrik Malm mentioned. It is of course important how we deal with refugee camps, and all good proposals are welcome. In addition, it is something that I myself have worked with since I have been in a high-level panel that the UN has set up on how humanitarian assistance should be designed in the future. There were important proposals about not letting young people go without schooling, looking after women's needs especially, creating job opportunities and so on. I think it will be a theme at the humanitarian summit in the spring. I will examine all these proposals with great interest and believe that we will need concrete proposals on how to improve the situation on the ground. In addition, we have appointed an ambassador specifically to follow the situation in Syria. That means we're up to date. We have someone to send out into the world to make sure that we come up with proposals that can be really effective. Peaceful coexistence is the way forward that we must strive for. That is why this political process is crucial, both to uphold law and order and to provide protection for Assyrians and Syrians as well as the rest of the population. We are doing everything we can to support the political process. It is now the case that the self-determination of different population groups is a matter decided by the people of Syria. That is why it is an issue that will be discussed. We continue to work to ensure that all parts of Syrian society are included in the political process. I think that the most important thing, regardless of the name we give to the suffering that people suffer and which is not least the victims of minorities, is what we do to prevent it and what we do to support and help the people who are subjected to persecution, killing and suffering. That is what we should focus on. And of course I'd love to go to Café Eskilstuna next time. We have discovered that the Swedish influence is so great that ministers speak fluently Swedish when we get there. Of course, it means a great deal to have these contacts and means that we can have a very open dialogue.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-148	Madam President, I would like To Fredrik Malm : Sweden should of course not manage the negotiations on its own, but through the UN. But Sweden should be an active party in pushing the UN so that the groups that are fighting for self-government and democracy in northern Syria can also become part of the peace negotiations. Today they are excluded, as Fredrik Malm is well aware. It is also groups which today protect extremely many, including Christian people who have fled the war in different parts of the country and who are otherwise harassed by both Islamists and the regime. Especially at a time when Sweden is running for membership of the UN Security Council, it may be important to show why we are actually worthy of that place. That is why I think that perhaps the government and the Minister should have made a little more effort to include these groups. Madam President, I would like Then I have a question for the Minister. It is again about aid. I understand that the Minister also thinks that aid should end up with the right people and the right organisations and that it should not go to terrorists. That should be a matter of course. That is precisely why I find it a little strange that the government is actually giving money today to organisations that have obviously given money to organisations like Al-Nusra. Is it the Minister's view that it is okay for Sida or the government to ensure that aid funds, Swedish tax funds, go to organizations such as Islamic Relief or Syria Recovery Trust Fund?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-151	Madam President, I would like It is usually said that the opposite of love is not hatred but indifference, and that is about how I look at the work of the Swedish Church over the past 20 years in helping the vulnerable Christian minorities in the Middle East. I believe, Madam President, that as long as the outside world provides the minorities with a solution or protection or sees them, they will be forced to turn inwards. They will then be forced to choose between a dictator and death. I know that a large proportion of minorities in Syria support Asad, and there is a reason for that. They don't want radical Islamism. They don't want to be put to death. They want to be able to stay where they are. And it is the duty of the outside world to actually offer an alternative for these people, for these groups. If nothing is done, I am absolutely convinced that these minorities will be exterminated. In the past, there were Jews in Iraq and Syria. Where are they today? They are extinct; they are not there. Previously, there were 200,000 mandés in Iraq. Where are they today? They're extinct because the world didn't see them. V islden didn't want to protect them. The question then is what can be done to protect these groups or to see them. There are two options. One is self-defense, helping them to self-defense and making sure they have it. If it includes weapons or anything else, I don't know, but something has to be done in that perspective. The second option is to establish a protection zone. These are about the two options that the outside world has if you want to see a Middle East where there are minorities, ethnic diversification and different peoples and groupings. It is crucial that the outside world sees that these minorities need support and need to be seen. You can only look at developments in Iraq. The Syrians don't want an Iraq. The Assyrians in Syria do not want to live like the Assyrians in Iraq did, because they are barely there. They're extinct, ethnically cleared. In my eyes, it's a genocide. I strongly urge the Foreign Minister to work for the very situation of minorities.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for an important debate. And thank you again for insightful and wise contributions with good suggestions! It is easy to agree, but it is also difficult to see how it can easily be done at present. What we all want, of course, is to have lasting peace and to work for peace. Then we must also equip ourselves for peace, because the conflict in Syria is a human tragedy that must be brought to an end. Now more than 250 000 people have been killed, and over 11 million Syrians are on the run. All of Syria's population groups are affected right now, but the minorities are of course particularly vulnerable, just as Robert Hannah very wisely says. I do not think that solutions such as protection zones can be excluded. I have just tried to point out that it requires that it really becomes a protection zone. I believe that all these measures will need to be discussed in the various contexts in which we are working for peace. Sending more weapons, I don't think, is a solution to the conflict. But we must do much more to protect minorities in Syria. I can only agree with that. The UN process must continue and, of course, we hope that talks can resume at the end of this month. Now we must also put pressure on the Syrian regime and Russia to meet the humanitarian requirements of the Security Council and, above all, to take confidence-building measures and not contribute to the situation becoming even worse in Aleppo or elsewhere in Syria. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-UMHCDj3V8znEqsfMm9NjH4	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Amineh Kakabaveh, Hans Linde, Desirée Pethrus and Fredrik Malm have asked me about measures regarding the current political situation in Turkey. Amineh Kakabaveh has also asked about the listing of the PKK as a terrorist organisation, Hans Linde about the financial support to Turkey in connection with migration cooperation and Desirée Pethrus about the presence of independent observers in the country. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. I am very concerned about developments in Turkey because it has gone in a negative direction with regard to the rule of law and human rights and freedoms, in particular freedom of expression and freedom of the press. The attacks on journalists and party premises are particularly serious, as I have also condemned in the past. It is deeply worrying that the fighting between the Turkish Government and the PKK continues. The tendency is that the contradictions are increasing in intensity and extent. The confrontation takes place to a large extent in cities in south-east Turkey, not infrequently with a state of emergency as a result, which means that civilians are severely affected. Local and national as well as international organisations are monitoring developments and travelling in south-eastern Turkey. Independent observers, on the other hand, need to agree. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that we in the European Union can never accept terrorism. As part of the EU's fight against terrorism, organisations engaged in terrorist acts at the time of listing are listed. The lists shall be based on precise information or facts showing that a decision has been taken by a competent authority in respect of the persons, groups or entities referred to in a terrorist act, and shall be reviewed regularly. During the last review, the EU Council of Ministers decided that there was reason to keep the PKK on this list. In this context, Sweden is pursuing a clear line of legal certainty. The conflict has fundamental implications for political developments in Turkey as a whole, for the possibility of finding a solution to the Syria conflict and combating Daish. It also has repercussions on the long-term ambition of the EU and Turkey to develop their cooperation and to address common challenges together. It is crucial that the peace process be resumed as soon as possible. We need a cease-fire and the Turkish Government to initiate a thorough negotiation and reform process. Sweden's main opportunity to influence developments in Turkey is through its EU proximity. The government remains a strong representative of Turkey's EU process as the most important tool to bring Turkey back to a reform agenda. Developed cooperation between the EU and Turkey provides the EU with increased opportunities to make demands and to influence developments in Turkey in a positive direction. The government stresses that this cooperation must continue to be value-based and build on the EU accession process, which contains clear criteria and conditions in key areas such as the rule of law, democracy and human rights. The EU-Turkey Summit last year confirmed the enhanced cooperation, with the main focus on migration. The EU's decided financial support to improve the living conditions and integration of Syrian refugees in Turkey is part of a broad agreement containing commitments from both parties on the basis of the Joint Action Plan on Migration. It is now crucial that the EU continues to deliver on our commitments in order to put pressure on and support Turkey in fulfilling its obligations. The agreement on enhanced cooperation also includes renewed efforts on Turkey's EU accession process and extended opportunities for foreign policy dialogue on the challenges in Turkey's neighbourhood. These are also linked to Turkey's considerations in relation to Kurdish groupings inside and outside Turkey. Unless the peace process is resumed and managed, it will be difficult to successfully develop long-term cooperation between the EU and Turkey. I assume that the Turkish Government is well aware of this. Sweden has an important role through our good contacts both with the Turkish Government and with parts of the opposition. The government intends to continue to develop our bilateral relationship with the Turkish Government, our dialogue with HDP and the other Kurdish opposition and with other relevant political forces in Turkey. Sweden also cooperates and supports civil society that promotes democratic development, including the rights of different population groups, including the Kurdish community, as an important element. It is my intention to deepen these bilateral contact points in the coming year.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-173	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Wallström for her reply. It is positive that the Foreign Minister in his response condemns Turkey's crimes against civilians. Unfortunately, I have to say that it is not enough to mark in a letter. Right now, as we stand here, human rights violations are being committed in the Kurdish parts. It is important to mention also Kurdistan and Turkey and not just the south-eastern parts. Turkey itself wants to do so, but we in the Swedish Parliament should not just mention south-eastern Turkey. This is about the Kurdish parts, and the crime is committed against the Kurds. We know why this war has resumed; it is because Turkey does not respect a democratically elected party such as HDP – a pro-curdian party. It is Turkey that is committing crimes. This happened last Sunday in the city of Cizre, where 60 people who had taken refuge in a basement were brutally murdered by the Turkish militia. More than 40% of Kurdish cities have now been besieged for over six weeks. There is a shortage of water and medicine. The bakers don't even have bread for civilians. More than 200 000 people are on the run in their own country, Kurdistan and Turkey. It's serious. It is good to have bilateral talks and dialogue with Turkey. Unfortunately, things have been happening for decades in both Turkey and other countries. What has been done? Well, Erdo中an has strengthened his position and has become one of the totalitarian Islamist presidents in modern times, led by the AKP as a government party. How can peace be resumed if one party is called a terrorist? The EU does not want to talk to terrorist groups. Turkey does not want to either. So what do we do? The only way to peace now is to lift the terror stamp from the PKK. No one wants to talk to a terrorist group. No one wants to talk to the other party, which is the Kurds. Whether we like it or not, the PKK is a popular movement in the eyes of the Kurds in Turkey. It is not we who make decisions for the Kurds; they themselves do. The organization was stamped many years ago, and its leaders have been in prison for 15 years. But the state is daily terrorising its own people, the Kurds, journalists and other peaceful people. 1,200 teachers, academics and professors from nearly 90 universities have signed a petition saying: We do not want to be part of this. Don't let Erdo中an speak in our name! Just because they mention the Kurds, they will now be brought to justice or asked to do so by Turkey. Turkey has made it clear, no later than last week, that it does not want the Kurds in Syria to have any autonomy or any chance of breathing peace. Erdo中an is threatening to enter Syria. This concerns the refugee settlement with the EU, where, unfortunately, both Sweden and the rest of the EU close their eyes to the worrying developments in Turkey. This has to be stopped. I would like to ask the same question as I have already asked: what are Sweden's plans to simply resume a peace process between the two parties, if this is possible when one party is terrorist-stampled?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-180	Madam President, I would like I would also like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply. We have to note that for several years, developments in Turkey have been one-sidedly and unequivocally going the wrong way. President Erdo中an has become increasingly authoritarian, the scope for opposition has been greatly reduced and all those who are perceived as opponents of development have been subjected to severe repression, whether it is about Kurds, environmentalists in Istanbul, trade unionists, independent journalists or outspoken academics. At the same time, we saw in the parliamentary elections in July that there is growing popular dissatisfaction in Turkey with the rule of Erdo中an. Many people in Turkey want a different development. We were able to see for the first time since 2002 how the ruling AK party lost its majority in Parliament. We could see how the left party HDP passed the 10% barrier, with a clear message about another Turkey. It is about peace in eastern Turkey and northern Kurdistan, but it is also a message about social justice, gender equality, sustainable development and LGBT people's rights. Erdo中an and the ruling AK party have responded to the election loss this summer and the growing popular dissatisfaction with increasing repression even more and with attacks on opposition votes. Over 400 people were attacked in HDP's office. Thousands of opposition journalists and activists were imprisoned, and we could see, especially in eastern Turkey and northern Kurdistan, how violence escalated in a number of cities with Kurdish populations. We have seen how violence has then escalated step by step. We now see that several cities have introduced a state of emergency and a curfew and prevented citizens from having access to water, electricity and health care. For example, in the cities of Cizre, Silopi and Sur, the population has been living in very difficult conditions for months. Amnesty International has established that the Turkish security forces are risking the lives of 200 000 civilians and have condemned Turkey's actions as collective punishment. Human Rights Watch reported in December how the Turkish security forces prevented access to health care for civilians, and called for an end to the abusive and disproportionate use of violence by the Turkish security forces. On 8 February, I saw Foreign Minister Wallström in a tweet expressing her concern about the violence and condemning acts of violence against civilians. Today, the Foreign Minister again expresses his concern about developments. I think it is good and positive that silence is broken, because it has been quiet about the situation in Turkey, especially about the situation in the eastern part of the country. It has been quiet from the EU leadership, from many of the EU Member States and, unfortunately, I must also say, from the Swedish Government in recent months. What surprises me is that the Foreign Minister, whether in his tweet or in the response we receive today, does not choose to make a clear criticism and demand of the Turkish Government, the Turkish security forces and President Erdo中an. We must note that there are no invisible hands that have created the conflict in eastern Turkey and northern Kurdistan. It is not invisible hands that have driven this development that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned about. These widespread abuses of civilians that we see and the escalation of violence are the result of active decisions and a conscious policy. We must have the courage to say who is behind this. We must begin to mention those who bear the main responsibility by name. In the past, the Foreign Minister in this House has not hesitated to call upon and make demands on various governments and regimes. I think this has been positive, and I would therefore like to ask Foreign Minister Wallström: what concrete demands in this acute situation do the Swedish Government place on President Erdo中an and his government?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-188	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I meet with the Foreign Minister from time to time in the EU Council, and of course Turkey comes up often. I do not think that the issue is on the agenda for the next Foreign Minister's meeting, as I think it should, because the whole situation with the refugee crisis is so topical. It is good that there are several of us who have written interpellations about the situation in Turkey. There are four of us here today, and that shows that there is a strong commitment. My starting point has been the increase in the number of reports we receive from people inside Turkey who are extremely concerned about the media situation. Freedom of expression is under threat and journalists are attacked and imprisoned and so on, and this is happening in a state to which the EU is now engaged in a dialogue with migration and to which money and resources are to be given. We had little hope when the positive trend came and the Turkish government began to talk with the PKK about progress towards peace. We then had hopes of seeing a peaceful development. What we are now seeing is something that is going in a completely different direction, and that is what I am addressing in my interpellation. The curfews cause food shortages and many are starving, and they are very hard hit. I have received information that there are 58 official curfews in at least seven different cities and 19 districts. The curfews often last 24 hours a day, and this affects 1.3 million people. So this is not a small scale, but large cities such as Hakkari, The Turkish Government is stepping up with more military presence, and this is an extremely serious development. According to information I have received from HDP's survey, 300 civilians have died. Ten of them are victims of the PKK's warfare. So they are also belligerent in this. 400 PKK fighters have also died. This can affect Sweden from a security perspective. It can affect the European Union, as it happens in the vicinity of the European Union. It can affect the flow of refugees that may increase from Turkey as well. I think that Sweden should then be the driving force – this is what I have mentioned in my interpellation – to establish a roadmap for negotiations on a lasting peace in consultation with Kurdish groups and for independent national and international observers to be given access to the region. The Foreign Minister replies that the country in question needs to agree to independent observers. What does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think is required to agree, and is there any pressure from Sweden and the EU in this regard?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. When you look at pictures from these cities – Cizre and Diyarbakhär Sur, i.e. the area inside the ring wall of Diyarbakhār, and several other cities – it looks like it could be Homs 2012 or 2013 or Aleppo this year. It is absolutely incredible that in Turkey, which is to be a candidate country for the European Union, Western allies and a bridge between East and West, tanks are being brought into cities to fire with artillery and cannons civilian houses because there are Kurdish young people with kalashnikovs. Nobody thinks there is any point in bringing the Kurdish uprising into the cities. I don't think so. However, this response from the Turkish military is completely out of proportion. If you have any thought in Turkey about trying to build what we call Hearts and Minds, you have completely failed. This has been done throughout the region. There is no other country in the whole Middle East, except Syria, which has so fatally destroyed its own soft power in the Middle East in recent years. It's very sad to see this. As a Liberal, I would be happy to see Turkey as a member of the European Union in future if it were to develop into a democracy. It's done. But we see a trend that goes in exactly the opposite direction. I think that Mr Linde illustrated the descriptions of human rights organisations well. It is not just a question of repression against the Kurds, it is also a question of how to act against the media. There is a president in this country who is the plaintiff in hundreds of legal proceedings against journalists. One of them, Can Dündar, wrote on Dagens Nyheter's cultural pages. He is the editor-in-chief of Cumhuriyet, one of the major newspapers in Turkey, and will receive a life sentence plus 30 years for revealing how Turkish security forces supply weapons to jihadists in Syria. The plaintiff is President Erdo中an. So it is a president who is trying to drive his own journalist corps into life imprisonment. I think, Madam President, that the European Union's reaction is very strange. Here, too, I share the view of the Left Party that it has been far too quiet. Above all, the signals to Ankara are unconcrete. What should be said to Ankara is actually five things. Firstly, you must resume the peace process. Secondly, you must accept democratic principles. You do not put journalists in prison, you do not close newspapers and you do not give people who sign a call for prison sentences for decades. Thirdly, a democratic constitution is required for the citizens of Turkey and not for the Turkish State to protect itself against its citizens. Fourthly, Turkey must stop buying oil from Isis. Fifthly, Turkey must stop supporting jihadists in Syria. These are quite reasonable demands, but they are not clearly presented. They are not brought forward because Europe is blocked by the refugee crisis. It is distressing, and I very much wish that the Swedish Government can speak more clearly and also bring these things into talks with Turkey. Otherwise, this will only be a simple bargaining process for Turkey to close its borders.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-203	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking all the interpellers for the interpellations you have written. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. The interpellants have mentioned the situation in Turkey. Since the June elections, violence in Turkey has escalated since the AKP government party lost a great deal. Later, the AKP was forced to enter into a type of conflict whereby the president – although not the party leader of the AKP – forced a new election that took place in November. Among other things, Diyarbak Цr, or Amed, Cizre and Silopi in the district of Sur are some of the cities that have been grounded, which has led to the civilian population having been without basic supplies such as food and water. We have also seen pictures of injured persons who have been prevented from seeking necessary medical care and relatives who have been forced to keep their dead in freezer boxes – this as a result of the curfew. Last Sunday there were 60 people who had fled the ongoing fighting, hiding and seeking shelter in a basement where they were brutally murdered. According to information I received yesterday, it was more than a hundred people. The number 60 doesn't quite match. Turkish media quickly went out and said it was about 60 terrorists being murdered. The fact that 60 terrorists are hiding in a basement and conducting an armed struggle is not logical. That's not exactly how it works. Local data confirms that there are several hundred people murdered. They were forced into the basement where it detonated two bombs aimed at an apartment building. The pictures also show ruthlessness and that cruelty has no limits. I would also like to thank the Minister for the Minister's statement on Monday when she condemned the violence against civilians. We know that Turkey has been criticised several times for its inhumane abuse. UN Commissioners have called for an investigation into the military offensive and violence in Kurdistan. That is why I think it is important that the Left Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Social Democrats agree to condemn what is happening. We must also continue to press for Turkey to resolve the Kurdish question by political and peaceful means. Fredrik Malm mentioned some, and we Social Democrats too call on the parties to return to the peace talks and to resume the peace process. In order for the Kurdish question to have a possible solution in the future, it is important to continue to make demands on Turkey. I will come back to these in my next speech.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-213	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, like everyone else here, I would like to express my sympathy and sympathy for the locals in south-eastern Turkey. The people there are severely affected by curfews and fighting, not least in the city of Cizre, which Hans Linde, Amineh Kakabaverh, Désirée Pethrus and Fredrik Malm highlighted in their speeches. We regret the many civilian casualties. It is deeply worrying that the fighting between the Turkish Government and the PKK is intensifying. The escalation of violence not only makes it difficult to bring about peace and development in Turkey, but it also risks further worsening the situation in the whole region. This is particularly true of the possibility of a political solution to the civil war in Syria. Several serious clashes with civilian deaths have been reported in recent months. Last week, the UN Human Rights Commissioner drew attention to an incident in Cizre where seemingly unarmed people with white flags were shot to death by Turkish security forces. It is deeply disturbing, and it must stop. Terrorism in all its forms must be condemned. Turkey, of course, has the right to defend itself, but this must be done in accordance with Turkey's international obligations and commitments. The efforts must be made with proportionality and with a view to ensuring that civilians are protected. The shooting of civilians is not acceptable and must be investigated on a case-by-case basis and those responsible must be held accountable. I call on Turkey to clarify these kinds of events. I have said this before and I say it again that the only way to put an end to the violence and solve the problems in Turkey is, of course, to resume the peace process. Last autumn, I received Selahattin Demirta, chairman of HDP, at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs here in Stockholm. It was a strong and very important meeting. During the meeting, I expressed deep concern about the escalation of violence in the country. I also called on the HDP to continue to support peace. In my contacts with my Turkish Foreign Minister, I am sending the same message at the latest when we met in Brussels in December. Both the government and the PKK must lay down their weapons to pave the way for peace agreements, and the Turkish Government must initiate negotiations. This is central to Turkey's continued democratisation, and it also has a bearing on the country's European approach. What is happening there is crucial for the stability of the whole region. That is why all the political actors in the country have a great responsibility to end up behind a policy that breaks the spiral of violence and polarisation. On behalf of Sweden, I call – and I know that the EU does so in every context – for strength. The recent increase in violence against politically committed citizens, academics, journalists and party premises ends. Restrictions on freedom of expression and minority rights are unacceptable and not compatible with the requirements resulting from a rapprochement with the EU. No one needs to doubt Sweden's position. We stand up for peace, democracy and human rights. I have met appreciation and respect for Sweden's clear voice both from the Turkish Government and from HDP here in Sweden. With regard to this matter with an observer, I would just like to say that one can well discuss such a thing. But at the moment there is an EU process in progress, and there is one presence that it is important to use in the best possible way. If we are to have international observers, then cooperation is also required on the part of Turkey. But I think you need a lot of tools in your toolbox, and I don't mind having this in your toolbox.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-224	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margot Wallström, for your commitment and your words! It is very important that Sweden does not hide behind what the EU says and thinks. Sweden's independent foreign policy is important to give voice to the Kurds. There are thousands of Kurds in Sweden, millions around Europe and millions in Kurdistan. I read all Kurdish newspapers carefully and follow TV, and they expect Sweden, Margot, to have its own voice. You're also special to the Kurds and the women. It is the Kurdish women who are suffering. In Kobane and Rojava, Kurdish women, supported by the PKK, are fighting Daish. The other day Erdo said that it will not allow the same mistakes as in 2003 in Kurdistan. Who's Erdo an really? He asks the United States who is their partner, us or the Kurds? Last night, the Iranian Foreign Minister met with representatives of Turkey. Then it was said that if the Kurds gain far too much power, there will be concern in the region. It is to be done as in Iran, that the Kurds should have their human rights. Unfortunately, the Kurds have become a pawn in the cynical power games of other states. Both in Europe and within the regional powers, they have played against each other. Every day, every second, these regimes trample on the human rights of the Kurds. That is why, for Sweden, we must make it very clear what kind of regimes we are dealing with. Erdo is playing a power game in Turkey. The United States is going down. Sweden for talks, as well as the EU. Turkey is taking advantage of this situation when there is a crisis and refugees have turned to Europe. Unfortunately, it will not be better by giving billions of our common assets from Sweden and the EU to Erdo中an. What has he done so far? Yes, he has bombed the Kurds and supported Daish. We know that. Can Dündar is one of the journalists who have revealed it, and he will be given life imprisonment, as Fredrik told. It's absurd. It is also absurd that 32 young socialists have been murdered in the city of Suruç, as well as 103 peaceful demonstrators in Ankara. The Jihadists have not committed themselves to the deed. Who did it, then, if it was not state terrorism of Turkey? There is still no organization that has said that it has done so. You have to ask these questions. What is Turkey doing? There is a need for a strong voice from Margot and Sweden in the EU and the UN to stop this and not give Erdo中an more power, for what he and Turkey are engaged in is unfortunately a power game and not a dialogue. I therefore call on all parties, the United States, Sweden and the United Nations to do something concrete.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-231	Madam President, I would like A couple of weeks ago I got on the e-mails a list from HDP of civilian deaths since July. On that list there were 283 names. Since then it has grown further. Most of the persons on the list had been shot to death by the Turkish security forces. But it should also be mentioned that 10 of the 283 had been killed by the PKK. It is important to emphasise that there are several points where one should rightly criticise the PKK and their actions. But you can't use the PKK to excuse Erdoa's abuse. The responsibility for the Turkish regime's abuse rests solely with the Turkish Government. It is President Erdo中an who is ultimately responsible for the abuses that the Turkish security forces are now committing. It is President Erdo中an who is ultimately responsible for the fact that people around Turkey are now being imprisoned on arbitrary and political grounds. It also means that it is precisely on President Erdo中an that we must call for the end of violence and political and arbitrary arrests. That is what I would like from Mrs Wallström – to speak clearly about President Erdo中an and his government, because, as I said, there are no invisible hands that have created this development. I would like to mention some of the people who were on the list I received of dead civilians in Turkey. There was a seven-year-old Baran from Cizre. There was the 70-year-old woman Hayriye Hüdaverdi from Silvan. There was the 81-year-old Yusuf Aybi from Silopi. There was also the three - month - old girl Miray 中nce, who died after the Turkish army had shot at her home with artillery. It is these people, these babies, women and the elderly, that the Turkish state now calls terrorists and threats to national security. We must see that they are the victims of this violence. As has been said in this discussion, the list of civilian deaths was even longer last Sunday. Over 60 men, women and children were massacred in south-eastern Turkey, that is, northern Kurdistan. This was not an unexpected situation. Amnesty International had warned in advance that people were trapped in basements in these areas and had no chance to escape the fighting. There is now information that Turkey has used chemical weapons in this attack. Nevertheless, this event does not qualify for the agenda when the EU's foreign ministers are meeting in a few days' time. I have to say that I find it strange and sad. When these abuses have taken place and so many people have been killed in the last few days in a country that aspires to become a member of the European Union, it does not even qualify for the Foreign Affairs Council's agenda. I'm surprised. I would like Sweden to push for the issue to come up and be discussed there. The government and Margot Wallström have repeatedly reiterated that the EU's relationship with the neighbourhood should be based on a more-for-more principle: more democratic progress will provide more cooperation with the EU. But what we are seeing in the case of Turkey is quite the opposite: more for less. Despite the consistent backward development in Turkey for several years, the EU decided in November that more chapters will be opened in Turkey's membership negotiations with the EU, that the EU and Turkey will have two annual summits and that the EU will assist Turkey with EUR 3 billion, of which the Swedish taxpayer will run for SEK 700 million – at the same time as these abuses are ongoing. Does not the more-for-more principle apply to Turkey? What is being sent is, of course, a clear signal that we are prepared to turn a blind eye to the abuses committed in Turkey, that there are other interests for the leadership of the European Union that are more important than safeguarding human rights and the situation of civilians in Turkey.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-236	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. It is good if the Foreign Minister tries to push for independent observers, especially those where curfews apply, to try to bring about change in some way. Perhaps no one knows exactly how to do this, but I think that we must seriously try to ensure that there is a change, because the current situation in the Kurdish areas is totally unsustainable. As I said, this does not only threaten the Kurds and the Kurdish-dominated areas, but threatens the whole of Turkey. It threatens Syrian refugees who need to go to safe areas, and it also threatens Europe's security. So this is extremely important. I would really like to emphasise further that the European Union must push for the resumption of peace negotiations between the PKK and Turkey and also for the advancement of human rights and democracy. I would like to use some of the time in my second speech on something that was also mentioned by Mr Linde: support for Turkey and the EU-Turkey Summit that took place not long ago. We have said that we will send EUR 3 billion to Turkey to deal with the refugee situation, of which SEK 700 million will apparently come from Sweden. EU accession should also be speeded up. The media say that Turkey has had $8 billion in refugee costs. There are some 300 000 refugees in various camps that Turkey manages and pays for. But the others who are out in society, over 1 1⁄2 million people, get what I understand no financial support and get on their own. Turkey has incurred refugee costs of approximately SEK 67 billion so far. For Sweden, the Migration Agency estimates that this year the cost will be SEK 60 billion, and then I have not counted all the costs for the municipalities – the costs for schools and all other costs. Turkey has 80 million inhabitants, and Sweden has 10 million inhabitants. Their costs in relation to the Swedish costs are almost nothing, you then feel. What are we actually sending money for when we send it to Turkey? Is it of goodwill? What does the Secretary of State think we should get for this money? If it is the case that we send money there and they do not get refugees directly, it is serious. If we do not see a process of democratisation in Turkey, but it escalates and goes in the completely wrong direction, then we have achieved nothing either. But SEK 700 million from Swedish taxpayers will go to Turkey, which we cannot trust right now. We need guarantees, I mean, from Turkey. If it is the case that Sweden should send 700 million of taxpayers' money, they should also promise democratisation. A stop to these acts of war must come about immediately. I would like the Foreign Minister to develop how she and the EU intend to push forward on this issue.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-243	Madam President, I would like It has been said very wisely, I think, in this debate. Looks like we're pretty much in agreement. But what is at the heart of the criticism that I have against the government and in the broader sense towards the European Union – that is what it is about – is that it again risks entering into a relationship with an authoritarian state that is merely some sort of bargaining for that state to keep refugees in check and so on. This is the kind of relationship they had with Libya under Gaddafi. They said: We buy oil in exchange for not allowing your citizens to cross the Mediterranean to us. That was basically the case. Those formerly known as Moderate Arab States are all the Arab states that rebelled a few years ago. It was like against this whole arrangement, where the West does not focus on human rights and democracy, but only enters into some kind of relationship based on cold-hammed cynical special interests or national interests but which has no elements and pressures for democracy and human rights. It is very worrying that we are once again in danger of falling into that trap. One problem with this is that Turkey itself today is a source of instability in the region, not stability. Turkey's Syria policy and systematic support for extremist jihadist rebels in Syria have helped drive people on the run. Turkey's lack of interest in the integration of some of the refugees there and the weak support for refugees also mean that people are fleeing. And the sieges of the cities in southeastern Kurdistan contribute to this. Madam President, I would like The Kurdish question is the main obstacle to democratisation in Turkey today. The country has a number of other problems, but the Kurdish question is, as it were, at the heart of the problem. In order for the issue to be resolved, a change of attitude is needed in Ankara. The fact is that Turkish policy towards the Kurds can be summed up quite simply. In the 1980s Turkey said: There are no Kurds. Who are they? They're mountain Turks, they said. Then there was some time, and then Ankara admitted: Yes, the Kurds exist. The Kurds exist, but there is nothing called the Kurdish language– there is no one. Nah, what's up? It's a dialect in Turkish. That was said then, although there are two completely different language groups. Then it was said: Yes, the Kurds exist. The Kurdish language also exists. But there's nothing called Kurdistan. Nah, what's up? Yes, it's our southeastern provinces, our southeastern problem, they said. Then there was a little more time. Four five years ago they said: Yes, the Kurds exist. The Kurdish language exists. Kurdistan also exists but not in Turkey, only in Iraq. There they are now in Turkey. The defensive attitude of Turkish state power is basically based on the feeling that the Kurdish question cannot be dealt with when the Kurds grow larger and want autonomy and become more interesting to the West and so on. It is the change of attitude that has not come about in Turkey. If it had come about, these cities would not have been attacked with tanks and killed these young people.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-249	Madam President, I would like On the Kurdish issue, I believe that we should discuss both short-term and long-term issues. We have touched on the short term quite clearly. The siege of these cities must be stopped, and the militaristic approach must somehow cease. But I also believe that we must be able to discuss the issue from a long-term perspective. Above all, Turkey must put an end to its policy of denial. It is no longer possible to deny the identity, existence and right of self-determination of the Kurdish people. The right to self-determination is a universally accepted right. Respect for the cultural integrity of different communities is a key to living in peace and consensus in Turkey. The right to self-determination is described by the UN as the most central of all human rights. It is a prerequisite for the realisation of other human rights and fundamental freedoms. Then there is the need for the peace negotiations, which have also been attended by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, between the State and the PKK to be resumed. We Social Democrats have pointed this out time and again when we have been to Turkey to visit our sister party HDP but also representatives of the Turkish Government, the AKP. Peace negotiations must resume. The state must also guarantee the human rights and freedoms of the Kurdish people. The military actions that are now taking place must be stopped. At the same time, it must be ensured that the PKK ceases its weapons and can start peace negotiations. It must intensify its work on a new Constitution, an inclusive Constitution, where respect for human rights and freedoms exists. Journalists incarcerated must be released. Newspapers have been closed-- you have to stop doing that. It's about social media and more. Work on the right to freedom of expression must continue.
i-A8vn721cnsss5yUVNQrSLe	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson, Minister Kristina Persson, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-256	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Hellmark Knutsson. There is today a growing demand for religious science research, and there are three individual theological universities that conduct such research. For a long time now, the theological colleges have not received financial compensation for the research-related training they pursue, despite the fact that other individual training coordinators receive state funding for research. Government higher education institutions and universities and individual education providers are expected to provide a research-related education, and the state finances 80% of research at the country's higher education institutions and universities. That is why state research funds should be fairly distributed. Does Minister Hellmark Knutsson consider that the same conditions for awarding state research funding should apply to state and individual education providers?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-259	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Annika Eclund! As has been said, this is not a new issue, but it is quite true that the principle has long been that basic funds, i.e. the allocation of funds directly to universities and universities without opening up to competition, are not allocated to individual higher education institutions. It is there that training places are first and foremost distributed. Now there has been a change so that research funding has also been allocated to ensure the quality of education. This has mainly been linked to the training efforts of the previous government but also this government, for example in the area of health care. Work is now under way on the next research policy proposal, and there is reason to discuss whether it should be a new principle or whether what has applied should continue to apply. We will therefore come back to this issue in the future.
i-WabRaeEnHc9y3oWeHhKxB6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. One of these schools, Johannelund University of Theology, has not had the number of training places negotiated since 2003. As I said, there is a great demand for this education. Today, overproduction is taking place, while the school receives compensation for a level from 2003. Is the Government willing to correct the compensation so that it is more consistent with the demand for training places and the production actually taking place?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-264	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the follow-up question. After all, it is the case that universities and colleges are free to both dimension education and design it on the basis of the national objectives we have. For individual higher education institutions, you must apply for a permit for a degree. The investments we make in extra training places are often linked to different types of shortcomings, but there are also free places.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-268	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of the Environment Åsa Romson. This applies to pledges in the Nordic countries that we have discussed before, most recently in Reykjavik in October last autumn. In December there was a response from the government to the Nordic Council regarding the recommendation on bilateral agreements between different countries in the Nordic region. Unfortunately, it was a negative response on the grounds that the deposit system works well in Sweden. My question is: Can it be true that the Minister for the Environment thinks that the collection of aluminium cans works well when at least 30%, or 300 million cans, consumed in Sweden are not covered by the deposit system? About 14% are recycled in the normal system, and 86% end up in other places. Is this sustainable for the future?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-271	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an urgent question about how we get a deposit system and a recycling of cans and possibly also bottles that work in Sweden, in the Nordic countries and also in our neighbouring countries. It is true that, within the framework of the Nordic Council's cooperation, the issue of a Nordic deposit system and other extensions of the deposit system has been discussed internationally for a long time. What we see in evaluation reports and the like is that we do not want to change a system that basically works very well, as the Swedish deposit system for beverage packaging in cans does, but rather we want to seek opportunities through bilateral agreements. Just as Denmark is now doing with Germany, Sweden can secure an even better recovery of pledges on the bilateral route. That's the path we're looking for.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-274	Mr President, I would like to In the last letter we received, nothing was mentioned about bilateral agreements, so we reacted and wondered whether this was sustainable development. What is this, we thought. We have seen that Denmark is in the process of forming a bilateral agreement with a German state. Finland and Latvia also talk, but it is Sweden that is number two when it comes to the import of cans and PET bottles, so it is especially important that we look at this and maybe produce a good statistics. We often miss this, especially now that PET bottles come along too.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-276	Mr President, I would like to The information I received last time at the Nordic Council was precisely that Sweden is also looking for the bilateral route with Germany, for example, in this regard. I can reconnect and ensure that this process is under way, but that is the information I have, and I am, like the honourable Member, keen that we can recover as much of the good resource that aluminium cans contain as many times as possible in Sweden, in the Nordic countries and in Europe.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-279	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister for the Elderly Åsa Regnér. It is the case that I have devoted most of my professional life and my political commitment to care for the elderly. Over a fairly long period of years, I have experienced that the employees are becoming increasingly under pressure. It is difficult to get enough time, and you often feel that you do not really give the quality that you wish you could give. You simply feel frustrated about not doing a good enough job. We also know that we have a very great need for recruitment in this particular business, and we need many trained nurses.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-283	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this question, which is very important! The care of the elderly, as I see it, is one of the biggest responsibilities of a government and a country. The government has decided on staffing for elderly care of 2 billion per year. These funds were used very quickly when we started paying them out. I was last the other day at a retirement home where you could have changed schedules with new staff so that everyone can work full time. They're used a lot. We have also decided today in the government on a regulation clarifying the responsibilities of municipalities and organisers in ensuring that there is staffing around the clock that can come without delay. This is a long-awaited reinforcement that is good for both residents and staff. This year we also have 200 million for skills development in care for the elderly, and I have also added a study that will look at quality in general, now and in the future, in relation to care for the elderly.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-287	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Minister very much for the answer, which I think is very much to the satisfaction of many. It's longed for. My supplementary question then is: How do we ensure that the needs of the elderly really determine what the funds are used for?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-289	Mr President, I would like to I am starting from that question all the time. I myself make an elderly journey through Sweden and look at how elderly care looks and is organized in different municipalities. I see many good examples. The rule of law states that you should start from the older women and men who are in care for the elderly. I also see many good examples of this in reality. However, I hope that the reinforcements that are now being made – the manning effort is the most historic – can further ensure that this is the case in reality.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-291	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for Cooperation Kristina Persson. We can see that the pressure on asylum against our country has been unsustainable, and we fundamentally welcome the strengthening of control over our borders. At the same time, many of us are engaged in the ongoing work to remove long-term border barriers within the Nordic region. Internal Nordic border barriers are a test for Nordic mobility and are not sustainable in the long term. It would be interesting to review the possibility of introducing common Nordic external border controls because the EU's external border has largely collapsed. This is now a real opportunity because the Danish Prime Minister Lars L ø kke Rasmussen has opened up the proposal. The Minister himself has initiated a working group for a long-term joint Nordic solution. At the same time, there is some concern about the lack of concrete proposals. How does the Minister want to move forward with taking a joint initiative from words to actions with his Nordic colleagues?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I am as keen as the questioner that we should have open borders in the Nordic countries. We have successfully removed barriers with the help of the Border Barriers Council over the past year. It is hoped that this situation will not last for too long. There is also a great interest in the Nordic community for close cooperation. The proposal by Mr Rasmussen, whom we touched on as hastily when we met last week in Helsinki, is interesting. I hope that the proposal will be discussed. But it is the migration ministers who are responsible for agreeing on the issues. Only two days ago it was a meeting between our Minister for Migration and the Danish colleague in Copenhagen, but then the issue did not come up. It will probably be taken up a little later. Among other things, the ministers of state will have a meeting on the Nordic issues.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-299	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I hear, of course, that there is an interest. At the same time, it is important for border commuters today and for growth tomorrow that the issues are solved long-term and do not become shelf heaters or buried in any form of long-term investigation. Can the Minister say anything more specific about when he thinks he can present a sharp Nordic proposal that has been drawn up in consultation?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-302	Mr President, I would like to I dare not talk about times, but there are always many contacts on the issues in the Nordic countries. We will continue both in the larger Nordic group and of course even more intense in the Swedish-Danish context. That's where we have the great currents of people coming and the ID controls. Things will certainly happen in the future in the discussions.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-304	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson. The Center Party sees the need and importance of having very locally produced and locally produced food in Sweden. This reduces, among other things, the need for transport, and there is a high and good quality of food as there is a high level of protection and the use of antibiotics is minimal. Seen in the light of what has happened in the last week, the question is even more obvious. The industry is having a tough time. Parts of the industry are on their knees, and there is a need for action and action. The government is working on a food strategy, which many in the industry consider important to look at the opportunities ahead. The minister responsible has said that he does not want to see a target for reducing meat consumption. Is it the government's overall view, Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson, that there should not be such a goal for the food strategy?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-308	Mr President, I would like to I am as keen as the honourable Member that there should be increased production of food in Sweden. Production must be of good quality, as it is today. In relation to external competition, production is under strong pressure. The answer to bringing together the industry and creating a more integrated regulatory framework is the food strategy. It is production-focused, that is, how the industry can be strengthened by Sweden becoming a better and larger food producer. In that part, that strategy does not meet any wider objectives in relation to the whole of Swedish environmental policy in terms of global impact on resource use. This is a major issue with regard to meat consumption. This is a production strategy that I am in favour of.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-310	Mr President, I would like to Let me see if I have interpreted the answer correctly: there should be no target for reduced meat consumption. The Minister for the Environment will have to correct me if I got it wrong. It is interesting to look at the government parties' programme and see what proposals exist that affect such a strategy. It shows that the Green Party has been pushing for a long time to introduce a meat tax. Is this an issue that comes up in the discussions linked to the food strategy?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-312	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party does not include in its party programme the introduction of meat taxes. However, we are in favour of ensuring that the Swedish environmental footprint is reduced globally and domestically through various instruments. There, animal consumption is a powerful driving factor. What we can see happening now is what has been included in the strengthened procurement legislation, namely to provide more support to the municipalities, to school meals, to the procurement of more vegetarian and for higher quality meat. That is the strategy to reduce meat consumption.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-314	Mr President, I would like to The agricultural sector, for example, has a tough situation due to Swedish special requirements. The food sector could produce more of what is consumed in the country and at the same time export more to other countries. It would create more jobs throughout the country. In order to improve the competitiveness of the sector, work is under way to develop a food strategy, but unfortunately some actors are trying to sneak other issues into the strategy. It is certainly surprising that earlier this week the Minister for Rural Development turned out to have quite a poor track record on several issues relating to meat consumption, the environment and climate. But he was quite right that the issues do not belong in the food strategy. Unfortunately, the message was not as clear from other representatives of the government parties. Does the government maintain the view that the food strategy should focus on the competitiveness of the food industry and not involve issues such as the consumption of individual foods such as meat?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-318	Mr President, I would like to I answered that question in my previous speech.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-319	Mr President, I would like to Then it should be understood that there will be no other focus than on the production in the food strategy, which in that case is gratifying. I welcome that. The discussion earlier this week called for the introduction of a meat tax from several quarters. It ties in with the question earlier. Will the government propose the introduction of such a meat tax during its term of office?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-322	Mr President, I would like to No, the government has no plans to introduce a meat tax. What the government has done for our overall environmental footprint and to get a more healthy food consumption in the country is to develop updated dietary advice, a procurement law that supports schools and county councils that want to focus on quality food and thereby choose more fruit and green and Swedish meat over other constellations of food products. In this way, the government operates not only quality production in Sweden but also for healthier meals.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-324	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. Yesterday's SVT programme The mission review focused on the attacks on women for their political activities and engagement. These are members of parliament, municipal politicians, journalists, opinion-formers and other committed women in public who receive hatred, sexist threats and other threats due to their political commitment. The trial in Lund District Court is unique in its kind because the process is just about that. There were vast numbers of political missions that had received political threats. The purpose is quite obvious. The political motive for the perpetrators is to silence women in public.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-328	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lawen Redar, for the question. It's very important. The fact that women and men can carry out their political mission on good and equal terms is very important in our society. As I see it, the question is representation and that one can express one's opinion without receiving this kind of comment afterwards. In addition, they are often much cruder and have sexual allusion when it comes to women. That is why we need to review the recent proposals from an investigation to the Ministry of Justice. We need to use the existing legislation at all. In addition, I think that we need to have a dialogue again on representation in the broad sense of the issue of women and men. It is also a gender equality objective. I shall shortly be presenting a letter on gender equality policy in which I intend to address several issues in this area.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-331	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. It is very reassuring that the work is in progress and that you take the issue very seriously. That's exactly what it takes. I am thinking a lot about the extension if we do not take urgent action on this issue. We can risk having a selective democracy where people go back and do not want to get involved and be part of what our democracy is based on, namely people's commitment. I would like to thank you for your reply and hope that political work will continue in this direction.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-334	Mr President, I would like to I think this is important. On 8 March, I will arrange a seminar on representation in a broad sense. There are a number of issues there that deal with women's and men's different conditions in politics, who can be heard in public space and how to be met from different power regimes in this matter. It's very important that we have that conversation. This also applies to who is elected as a political mission and also to the Riksdag. It is also about how long you can keep up with your mission and keep track not only that you are elected but that you stay on when you are elected.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-337	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Our country is facing major challenges in the coming years. This applies not least to school. We know we need more teachers. The search pressure for the courses has increased somewhat, I am glad to say, over the last two or three years. But that is probably not enough. We need more people into the profession, and fewer people need to leave prematurely. I've seen quite a few actions from the government. I wonder what the Government thinks about popularising the profession and raising the status of teachers.
i-9ZBGL3AkzTy2BfMWaRCvBT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Michael Svensson, for the very important question. The question of the lack of teachers is an issue that we inherited from the previous government. We then talked about the need for 65 000 teachers to be recruited by 2025. Today that figure is revised. We have a great reception for new arrivals. But the birth of children also goes up in Sweden. We're counting half a million more children. This means that we will have to recruit 90 000 teachers by 2019. We make a lot of efforts. We're building up teacher training. Glad to say, the search print goes up. This means that there will also be more adoptions. Today, the government has also decided on the Teacher's Salary Lift. This means 3 billion in salary increases for teachers for a more attractive profession. It will include some 60 000 teachers.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-343	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. I am also partly thinking of teacher training. Although we did re-train teachers in 2011 and, above all, the framework for it, there are still some shortcomings in the content. Among other things, I think there is a need for more methodology and leadership and Swedish as a second language. Does the Government see any reason to review the content of teacher training as well?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-345	Mr President, I would like to Teacher education is the education that is most detailed from both parliament and government. It is also the one that has changed most often. That is why I do not intend to do it again. I think it was a good change made by teacher training 2011. It is now a matter of pursuing it and ensuring the quality of education. Among other things, we are doing this by adding 900 million to the forthcoming term of office to ensure quality.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-348	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Hellmark Knutsson. For the Center Party, it is extremely important that education should lead to a job. Most people who choose to pursue higher education do so because education is required for the job they want. But they also do so to strengthen their chances of entering the labour market. Recently, Saco Student Council together with Teknikföretagen presented a report on the link to work in higher education. It showed that every other student was dissatisfied with the employment relationship in higher education.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-352	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for this incredibly important question. We have also paid attention to the report. That is a question that we are now looking at. Work placement is important in all higher education. It can happen in many ways. In some professional training courses, this is an operational part of the training. There we need to ensure quality. But we also need to ensure that there is close interaction between future employers and those who shape education. This responsibility lies with the higher education institutions. It can also ensure that there can be a better link to working life for those who do not have training. It can be done through degree projects, internships and other things. Above all, we need to ensure that there is better study and career guidance. It is a question of working closely with future employers for both the design and dimensioning of higher education and vocational guidance.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-356	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that Helene Hellmark Knutsson shares the view that this is an urgent issue. From the Center Party, we encourage alumni' views to be included in the quality evaluation system and the resource allocation system to be reviewed. Unfortunately, I heard the Minister highlight only the role of higher education institutions in this. My question to the Minister is about: What does the Minister intend to do to strengthen the employment relationship for students?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-358	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson. It is precisely these proposals that I raised. We are also prepared to look at other proposals such as those you yourself mentioned here to see how we can strengthen the employment relationship. It is important that all higher education has a strong link to working life. Then let us remember that higher education should also lead to the creation of jobs for the future and not just the employability of the jobs that exist today.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-361	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Romson. We have all been reached by the welcome news that the Environmental Objectives Committee is proposing a Climate Act and a Climate Policy Council to ensure that the Government complies with the Climate Act. All of this is done in order for Sweden to reach zero emissions in 2045 and to be the forerunner in the climate work that the world has manifested in the Paris Agreement. The Minister for Climate and Environment has said that experience shows that once we set targets, we often reach them faster than we think. This proposal has already been criticised because it is too tough and because it is too easy. Maybe it's a good grade for the investigation. What I think is that different groups in society, different companies, industries and people in their everyday lives have different conditions for achieving climate goals. That leads to my question. Where do we see the greatest challenges, and what are the greatest instigators and predecessors?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-365	Mr President, I would like to Like Camilla Hansén, I look at the proposal that came and was presented at the DN Debate yesterday by the seven parties that are currently in the Environmental Objectives Committee. It was a proposal in an interim report, a mandate given by the government about a year ago. We work together on how we also strengthen the role of the Riksdag. It is about the follow-up of the Climate Policy Council, a climate policy framework but also a climate law. It consists of those elements together with pointing out and agreeing that the roadmap is clear. It is now more clearly set with a specified target by the year 2045. It is as important for Sweden as the agreement in Paris is for the world. It's a floor and a way to give it a framework. On the basis of this, we have the opportunity to give conditions to actors around society, who are actually doing the job in terms of reducing emissions. Then it is true that different sectors have different conditions, as Camilla Hansén points out.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-369	Mr President, I would like to Are there any special ones that you, Åsa Romson, want to highlight as the locomotive that pulls the train towards the goal?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-370	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, some sectors and actors really walk the train, or hopefully better than the train, in terms of reducing climate emissions. Overall, the energy sector is such a sector. Globally, there has never been a major revolution than the last five or ten years. Renewable is the energy source that is growing explosively. In Sweden, the transport sector is an opportunity sector, but there we also have difficulties.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-372	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Hellmark Knutsson. This spring, the digital strategy for schools will come. It's a long-awaited one. In order for schools and principals to be able to live up to it, teachers with the right skills are needed. It will be a challenge for many principals to train the teachers they have. The state has a great responsibility for those who attend teacher education living up to the degree goals that exist when it comes to using digital tools. There are alarming signals from, among other things, the student associations of the teaching unions, who say that they see very little of this with digital tools in their teacher training. This will make it difficult for them to meet the demands of the digital strategy for the use of digital tools when they are going out and teaching.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for a very urgent question! We really need to follow up on this. This will, of course, be possible through the new quality assurance system that we, or rather our University Chancellor, have developed and which is currently being discussed by the Riksdag. There is an opportunity to make thematic follow-ups of our trainers. This can be done on the initiative of us or the University Chancellor's Office. I would also like to say that there is a lot of development work going on at the universities to get better at this. I visited Södertörn University and took part in their work. It is also about spreading good examples of development work being done.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-379	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is something missing in the digital strategy that is coming. There is no mandate to include higher education in the development of the strategy. How does the Government view it, and is the government prepared to develop a digital strategy for higher education as well?
i-33f2xLMr3b2JNcHn7aNBQR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. This is about how we develop the work with digital tools in higher education as pedagogy and for distance learning. This is something we are looking at in order to improve higher education with the help of new technologies. We will look at this. As I said, we are also giving ourselves the opportunity to make such evaluations through a new quality assurance system.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-383	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. The Finnish Immigration Service has presented its new calculations of the number of migrants expected to come to Sweden during the year. It is about up to 140 000 who can come here as a direct result of the benefits that Sweden offers. Furthermore, the Director-General of the Migration Agency has said that it is full and that the agency is unable to receive such a large number of migrants. He also says that it is hardly possible to talk about prognosis anymore. In addition, in previous years the calculations have been at a disadvantage, which is why there is a high risk that the number will rise sharply. My question to the Deputy Prime Minister is whether she can finally admit that the volume issue plays a role and what she intends to do to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-387	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a question that the honourable Member considers important. As regards the Finnish Immigration Service's forecast, the government was clear that, as the Finnish Immigration Service says, it is uncertain. There have been an enormous number of forecasts, and it has become much more difficult to predict this for Sweden. The forecast shows the global context of the refugee issue. The fact that, as the honourable Member says, refugees come to Sweden because of the benefits we give here is not at all true. Refugees come to Sweden because they are fleeing, because we have a global crisis. There is war, violence and terror in Syria. There's abuse. This is the basis for the refugee situation that Sweden and Europe are in right now. That should reasonably be the focus here. It is also true that we in Sweden have a reception system that faces major challenges. To strengthen this, the government has launched a series of measures.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-391	Mr President, I would like to It is sad that the Minister does not realise the seriousness of the situation we are facing. The cost of the Finnish Immigration Service's operations is estimated to increase with the current forecast by a total of SEK 420 million for the year. It is our common assets that we shall use to finance this. Money doesn't grow on trees. How does the Minister intend to work to finance this? What taxes are to be raised, and what parts of welfare can be sacrificed?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-393	Mr President, I would like to The seriousness of the situation, and as I emphasised, is the global refugee situation. We have not had so much refugees in the world since World War II. This year we have already had more fatal accidents involving refugees in the Mediterranean than we had at the same time last year. The fact that the government would not realise the seriousness of the matter is, I think, clearly exaggerated. Then we make a huge effort to ensure that we in Sweden are able to provide a good reception, and we will also be able to make sure that people get to work faster and contribute to our society.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-396	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Åsa Regnér a question. LSS and personal assistance is a law of rights that has meant a great improvement in the living conditions of many disabled people and is crucial to the possibility of living a life like others. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency has now been commissioned by the Government to reduce the number of hours granted. It is a restriction that we consider to be so extensive that it should have been preceded by a change in law – a change of law that we in V would absolutely have voted against. I still have to ask: Do you, Åsa Regnér, as responsible minister, think that the directive that the Social Insurance Agency has received in the regulation letter is within the government's mandate, or should it have been preceded by a change in law?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-400	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue. It is a law of rights, and it is fundamental in the lives of many people who live with severe disabilities. Over the past ten years, we have had a cost development where costs have increased very much, while the number of people has not increased at all as much. The number of hours, on the other hand, has skyrocketed in a way that is difficult for the vast majority to explain. We think it is important that the money goes to what it is intended for. That is why we need to do various things to ensure that the money goes to what it is intended for, that is to say, to those who have these needs. This is part of it.
i-9rgCCYcL7HwUEYkh6FdCfv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Åsa Regnér! The very strong wording that the Government has added to the regulatory letter is very difficult to read in any other way than as a call to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to reduce the number of hours. We therefore believe that it is an invitation to Försäkringskassan to refrain from interpreting the law as necessary. My supplementary question is therefore: Do you think that the government should state in regulatory letters how the authority should interpret the law?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-404	Mr President, I would like to The legislation remains in place, and it looks like it does. We will set up an investigation and review it, and then the relevant organisations will be invited to participate in the investigation in various ways. The regulation letter states that they should contribute to curbing cost developments. It's part of getting control over an expense that most people think you need to control.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-407	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. Sustainable development is an important concept for our common future. The three perspectives that sustainable development generally includes are that any decision or basis taken by an authority should contain a social dimension, an ecological dimension and a growth dimension. Sustainable development is a concept that often recurs in different political contexts, both regionally and nationally. My question to the Minister for Gender Equality is therefore: how is gender equality policy being brought together today on the basis of sustainable development?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-410	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for this big question. Fortunately, we – the whole of Sweden – have an opportunity to talk about these issues in one and the same context in that we will implement Agenda 2030. It is already an important issue. Now that Sweden, like all the other Member States of the United Nations, are to take on the great task of meeting the sustainable development goals, it becomes a natural platform for bringing together and measuring that we are doing this. I and many in this House have fought for there to be a special objective for equality, but as it is in the world today, it was not easy to achieve it. It contains letters on sexual and reproductive health and rights, which is extremely important. In addition, gender equality should permeate all objectives. I see that this work will be important as well as the letter on gender equality that the government will present later in the year. It's two good opportunities to get back to.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-415	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The county administrative boards here in Sweden have an important mission to bring together the national targets when it comes to gender equality policy so that they have an impact also locally in the counties, for example in Blekinge, from which I come. This will be done through knowledge building and by coordinating different types of actions and partnerships locally. How does the Minister argue about this work and the possibility of allowing the county boards of the country to step up this work further in the coming period?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-418	Mr President, I would like to In the letter I mentioned just now, I will come back to the issue of stronger and better governance of gender equality policy, for it has failed for a number of years. There, the county administrative boards will still play an important role, and together with the work I have just mentioned, there are many opportunities to work on this. I see gender equality as a strong engine for achieving increased growth, increasing labour supply, creating a strong tax base and so on, apart from all aspects of fairness.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-421	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mrs Åsa a question. One study, Housing to stay in, estimates that 360 000 homes need to be built for year-long people by 2030. The question is what the government is doing to meet this need. It is illustrated by all the case descriptions we read about in the media, where 100, 90 and 80-year-olds have become prisoners in their own homes. They are too healthy to move to nursing homes, but they need something else to live in.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-423	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Barbro Westerholm! This is an important issue. We see the need. Unfortunately, about a fifth of the places in retirement homes have disappeared in the last ten years, which is a major problem. Older people should be able to live where they want, even when they have needs, and municipalities should ensure that this can be met. The Government has therefore decided on an investment aid that is flexible and can be used for retirement homes, for some kind of intermediate form or for adapting housing. Support will be stepped up during the term of office. I have also set up an investigation to look at these issues in terms of quality at all in the care of the elderly – this is an important such issue – to ensure that we have a long-term perspective there. Overall, when you are assessed for aid and have needs, you should be able to get the support you need.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-427	Mr President, I would like to This is not just about aid-assessed housing but also about other intermediate forms, as if they were introduced as shelters can prevent the need for care housing. I'd like to hear a little more about the idea of that living form.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-429	Mr President, I would like to That is why investment aid is flexible. It can also be used for this. I see that the need exists, without doubt, and I hope that the funds will be useful. Then it is a task for municipalities to meet the needs.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-431	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Karolinska Institutet is a state university and a cutting-edge in medical research in the country. In addition, it is the KI Board that appoints the historic Nobel Prize in Medicine, which is in fact crucial to our reputation throughout the world. Now a huge scandal has been revealed where poor practical research by Paolo Macchiarini has resulted in the premature death of several people. In this context, there is also talk of manipulated research. The headmaster is appointed by the government. Does the Government intend to act on the question of the enormous scandal that is actually in hand, in addition to the announced three-man investigation?
i-65cqnhAEYiQAz8XUvx4C4y	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Robert Stenkvist! Both I and the government take very seriously what has happened. The mere suspicion of research fraud is serious about trust, both in Karolinska Institutet, in this case, and in research as a whole. There is a great responsibility at our universities. Most people in this House agree that we should have autonomous universities. It is true that Karolinska Institutet and several others are state-owned, but there is a special relationship of trust in which the Board – in this case the Board – recruits the Vice-Chancellor and supervises. However, they are not involved in either awarding the Nobel Prize, employing researchers or deciding anything about the research, but there are general representatives from us. A great responsibility falls on the Vice-Chancellor and the other researchers.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-439	Mr President, I would like to Anders Hamsten is Vice-Chancellor and appointed and appointed by the Government, if I have understood correctly. It is not just a question of research here. A young woman from Russia, Julia Tuulik, died after Macchiarinis's intervention, which he could never have done without the support of KI. She rotted from the inside and later died. This is really serious. Is it not justified for the government to show its ability to act here?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-441	Mr President, I would like to Thanks again! We are all very concerned by what we have seen in the documentary and what we have read about this case. But it is important that we do the right things and that we make them in the right order. As I said, the headmaster is employed by the government, that is right, but it is done on a proposal from the board, in this case the Board. That is where trust or lack of trust should be expressed. We have contributed a great deal to this matter.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-446	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson. The regulation letter for the Swedish Energy Agency for 2016 states that the Agency, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, has been tasked with monitoring and analysing how the planning and permit process of establishing wind power has developed in the municipalities. It is written that if the authorities consider that there is a need for measures to facilitate the authorisation process, they should propose such measures, including legislative proposals. In this context, it is mentioned that, according to the Environmental Code, the permission of municipalities is required for new wind turbines to be constructed, i.e. there is a municipal veto.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-450	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We see that wind power is increasingly important, and we are exploiting an increasing part of our potential in Sweden. Nevertheless, there are a lot of winds that blow past Sweden completely without adding energy to our energy system, so there is much more to do. I am not familiar with the exact mission, because it is the responsibility of the Minister for Energy to give assignments to the Energy Agency. Although they cooperate with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, it does not mean that details have been prepared with me. I and the government have not announced a new strategy in terms of wind power. We take a positive view of wind power. We are prepared to look at what changes can be made to increase opportunities for good wind power. But we also see good planning in the municipalities and in the situation description to make it good energy for all parties, especially those who are close to home.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-454	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. However, I do not think I am getting a clear answer, and this is still close to the area for which the Minister is responsible, namely climate and the environment. I must remind you that in the portal clause of the government form it is written that all public power in Sweden is based on the people and that the people's board is realized, among other things, through municipal self-government. The letter of regulation clearly points to the particular municipal veto, and in this connection it says that it also gives a mandate to produce a draft constitution.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-457	Mr President, I would like to In the quest to use more wind power in Sweden, I think you should look at several questions. On the other hand, I have not understood that there is any particular will from the government to try, as in the back way, to remove part of municipal self-government – quite the contrary. I believe that planning at municipal and local level is important, especially in terms of the type of local energy production that can bring much to the area. But if there are any such proposals, they will come to Parliament, so you can be quite calm about that, Maria Malmer Stenergard.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-459	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Nordic Minister for Cooperation Kristina Persson. A few weeks ago it was a Nordic ministerial meeting in Helsinki. There, many important issues for Nordic cooperation were discussed. One of the issues was the integration of new arrivals into Sweden and the Nordic region. I personally believe that we have a lot to learn from each other when it comes to the process of achieving integration, which will be one of the major issues for quite a long time in the Nordic countries. I have a question for the Minister about how the discussions went. Can we draw conclusions and learn from each other in terms of knowledge acquisition and other things? Nevertheless, we have had some different profiles when it comes to reception.
i-AuVBfxpodbcTSChLS7FVRy	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Andersson, for the question! It is true that we met in Helsinki last week. We had a committed and positive discussion on refugee and integration issues in the Nordic countries. There is a strong will to help each other and share experiences with each other, because we all recognise that the issue of refugees also requires an ability to integrate, to ensure that people enter the world of work. We have decided to proceed with the discussion and cooperation. In the first place, we will draw good examples from our own realities and share those examples, best practice, with each other. We will certainly also continue the discussion on how we could cooperate in Europe and how we can press for better cooperation in Europe on refugee issues.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-464	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I have a supplementary question concerning another area that you, as I understand it, also dealt with at the meeting. It's about border barriers. Today, many people live in the borderland between our Nordic countries and depend on it to work when it comes to the possibility of living in one country and working in another. I would like to hear a little about what was discussed about this.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-466	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We are anxious that there should be no barriers to borders. The aim is to remove all border barriers, so we all feel that it is a kind of failure when we need to introduce barriers, as we have done with the ID controls. But in practice it works quite well, as has been shown. We have also seen that in recent times it has decreased. Border problems in Finland and Norway have decreased.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-468	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Higher Education and Research, Helene Hellmark Knutsson. That is a question that has already been raised in Question Time. One of the hottest issues in the media right now concerns KI, Karolinska Institutet, and above all its guest researcher Macchiarini. There are countless TV spots and column meters that have been published about his works and sounds. The other day, the KI Board, the so-called Board, announced that they will set up an investigation, but not about misconduct, but about the procedural issues linked to history. Given the immediate link between KI and the Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine, it is important to look at the situation that has arisen. The Minister herself has said that she sees that there may be a risk of this spilling over on the Nobel Prize.
i-HYyxHXo6b1CYmh9P34Adyh	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg! As I said, it is a very serious situation that has arisen at Karolinska Institutet. It is our leading research university, which is highly ranked in the world. The concern about Karolinska Institutet and the trust in research is the most important thing for me and the government. We are in close dialogue with the University Board and, not least, its Chairman Lars Leijonborg on how to deal with this. It is a huge responsibility for Karolinska Institutet to sort out the situation. I am also prepared to take action. We already took action when we set up an investigation into how to deal with suspicion of research fraud in the future. That investigation was set up in October last year and will make its proposals by November of this year at the latest.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-475	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am the first to agree with the Minister that we as politicians should keep our fingers in check and not be in the Academy's jam jar, as was mentioned in the previous reply. However, given the Nobel Prize's important reputation for Sweden – and also the article in Svenska Dagbladet today, which addresses the risk of conflict in the KI review – I wonder how we can act proactively further and if the Minister has any ideas. Can an international Commission be envisaged?
i-GDUeznDXiWEh1ZDTf2oeLf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg! At the department, we are looking at what can be done further. With regard to the Nobel Prize, it is important that this is an independent organisation that is also independent from Karolinska Institutet. But it is also important that the people who will be affected by the investigation show good judgment and also care for the Nobel Prize and Karolinska Institutet, so that confidence is not at risk of being damaged.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-479	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson. We are now being reached by reports that over 5 million children in Ethiopia are at risk of life-threatening malnutrition. The reason is, among other things, the worst drought in over 50 years. The situation in Malawi and Zimbabwe is equally acute. We know that when it comes to drought, it is cattle that die first, then harvests are affected, and then food shortages are acute. Aid organisations are now appealing to the world's rich countries for urgent action. The outside world must act to save lives. We have seen problems with extreme weather elsewhere in the world. The reason is the weather phenomenon El Niño, which has greater strength and more variety. During the climate summit, Åsa Romson negotiated precisely this, about the responsibility of the rich countries to help poorer countries when they suffer from climate consequences due to weather phenomena. What responsibility do we have?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-483	Mr President, I would like to We know that climate effects hit the already poor hardest. Drying and weather phenomena such as El Niño can pull the floor away from people, starve the livestock and cause food production to stop and people to starve is also known. We know that this type of weather phenomenon is reinforced by climate change. Perhaps it was partly this knowledge that led all world leaders to agree in Paris on a new global climate agreement. It is about the knowledge that we must not only succeed in reducing emissions, which is of course the basis for this, but that we must also help each other in solidarity and globally with climate adaptation and with support in the difficult times that are coming. And it is the poorest who need the most support. I am pleased that Sweden is one of the countries that most clearly stands up internationally, and that has a large amount of emergency aid that in this type of disaster is quickly in place, but which also works long-term and ensures that we get better development in the long term.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-486	Mr President, I would like to The Minister said that we know that these weather phenomena are here, that they are increasing in scale and that they are also becoming more difficult to deal with. Last year, the temperature had risen one degree above pre-industrial levels, and it is not far to the one and a half to two degrees which have unacceptable consequences for humanity with extreme pressures for people around the world, but not least for people in the poorer parts.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-487	Mr President, I would like to Starving is due not only to pulling away the bones of agricultural production but also to institutional forms. I think it is important that Sweden is a strong development partner, not least to the poor countries of Africa which are currently facing this threat. But to close your eyes and say that it would have nothing to do with climate change and with the responsibility that lies on the rich world, with the historical emissions that have come from here, cannot be done either.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-489	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. The government intends to present a bill on the so-called host country agreement. I think that is basically a good thing. This means increased practice activities and that we cooperate and cooperate with others for the benefit of our common security. Some time ago, two environmentalists, Jabar Amin and Annika Lillemet, aroused a motion. They say, among other things, that we become more vulnerable to security policy through the host country agreement, as we make our country a target for Russian nuclear weapons. This is without having any security guarantees. The host country agreement must probably be said to be the worst of the various security policy options facing Sweden. ..................................................... My question to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson is: What is your best argument for the House to adopt the host country agreement?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-493	Mr President, I would like to When the Swedish Defence Committee agreed in broad collaboration on a direction for the Swedish defence and security policy, it was something that the government was very positive about. It is important that Sweden's relations with the outside world, not least in terms of defence and security policy analysis, are widely anchored in the Swedish parliament. Something else would be extremely aggravating. The previous government announced shortly before the election that Sweden with a host country agreement would cooperate even more closely or with even more structure with NATO. This is something that the government has investigated since then, and we will return to Parliament when such a bill is ready.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-495	Mr President, I would like to Should I interpret the Deputy Prime Minister in the way that the best argument for her is that the Defence Committee is behind this? Mr President, I would like to For my part, I think the host country agreement is good, because it increases Sweden's security. This will contribute to increased Swedish defence capabilities. My question is therefore: is there an even better argument on the part of the Deputy Prime Minister, and does she have her whole party with her? Will all the environmental partners in this House vote for the host country agreement?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-498	Mr President, I would like to As far as the security policy analysis is concerned, it is important, as I said, that we have a broad foundation in the Swedish Parliament. It is obvious that various steps and measures taken by Sweden as a country in terms of cooperating and doing joint exercises with Finland or working together and doing joint exercises with NATO or in other collaborations – we are a collaborative party there – also sends out security policy signals. They need to be analyzed. But the government has said, after the work of the Defense Committee, that you should return with a bill.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-500	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Research shows that skilled teachers are the single most important factor in students' learning outcomes. An important prerequisite for pupils' learning and results is therefore that pupils are taught by trained teachers. Recent forecasts indicate that at today's examination rate 60 000 teachers will be missing as early as 2019. In parts of the country, as in my municipality Älvsbyn, which is on the border with Norrbotten's hinterland, the lack of teachers is already a fact.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-505	Mr President, I would like to I thank Linus Sköld for this urgent issue. We are doing things in the long term, but we also need to make rapid efforts to meet this. Among other things, we invest in supplementary educational education for those who already have academic education and subject knowledge. That's one way. What we have presented today is a new fast track to also take advantage of the skills of the new arrivals, i.e. those who have a teacher training when they arrive, so that these people will be able to gain knowledge as quickly as possible equivalent to a Swedish teacher ID and of course also learn Swedish to enter their old profession. We will also need to take more action, and we are currently discussing it within the framework of the national collection of teaching. I would also like to say that it is important that we have teacher training throughout the country in order to manage the supply of skills also in rural areas and that we should sometimes also be able to offer it through a distance programme.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-510	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Romson. In 2020, Tirana in Albania will have a ring road, making Stockholm the only capital in Europe that stands without one. Now Sweden's negotiation proposes the construction of an eastern link that also gives Stockholm a long-awaited ring road. A ring road would reduce traffic in the inner city, reduce emissions and make everyday life easier for the Stockholms. The biggest threat to the project is the Green Party. The environmental party usually opposes most of it on four wheels, and Åsa Romson herself has exercised to interrupt all investigation of an eastern connection. Recent figures show that an Eastern relationship has strong support among the Stockholmers and among the Green Party's own voters. I hope that the Green Party will release its thought ban around the ring road around Stockholm. I wonder how Åsa Romson feels about the construction of an eastern connection.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-516	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish negotiations are in important stages. There are ongoing negotiations with both the metropolitan municipalities and the municipalities around them, in particular with regard to public transport and additional infrastructure. There are also ongoing discussions around the country, especially with a focus on how we can develop faster train connections and an improved train infrastructure in Sweden. I think it would be unfortunate if, as the representative of the government, I were to go in and comment on individual projects involved in these negotiations. I think it is the worst thing that we can do from a situation where the whole of Sweden will grow and where everyone should feel that this negotiation is actually important. The government believes that Sweden's negotiations are important and that they should come to an end with good data and good analyses, so that our goal by 2020 to reduce climate emissions and get a better everyday life for all Swedes who need to commute effectively is achieved.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-519	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the so-called Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. The government has announced an unemployment target to reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Now we have passed 2015, the last year that we will have an alliance budget as it seems. There have been a lot of improvements this year. Only this morning you could hear on the radio that youth unemployment has fallen. In the future, it doesn't look quite as bright. Therefore, my question to the Deputy Prime Minister is: What does the government intend to do now? What measures, which have not yet been announced, are envisaged to achieve the EU's lowest unemployment target by 2020?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-523	Mr President, I would like to The government has from day one had on its agenda to have a very strong policy of reducing unemployment. This is one of Sweden's biggest problems. The government therefore set a tough target from the beginning, and we have been working after that since day one. That is also why we are now seeing unemployment falling. In particular, youth unemployment, and long-term youth unemployment, are falling. Our tools in the form of an active labour market policy, not least with a matching policy where training of those groups that are far from the labour market and need to become relevant in the labour market, are taken very seriously. These are tools we want to continue working with, because we see that they have begun to succeed. It is only through hard work that we can ensure that in Sweden we have higher employment and reduced unemployment so that more people can support themselves and build a dignified life in Sweden.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-525	That concludes Question Time. I thank the participating ministers and Members.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-526	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In response to questions raised in the debate so far, I would just like to say that I believe that the question of what is happening in Turkey will be discussed at the next meeting of foreign ministers. Although it is not formally on the agenda as a specific item, it is clear that this is in everyone's minds right now. We are following what is happening very closely and with great concern. So it can probably be assumed that it will be discussed even if it is done informally. Mrs Pethrus asked about this with international election observers, and I will try to answer that if she can draw attention to this. Just to explain, I think, as I said, that you should have a broad toolbox diplomatically and that this may well be in that toolbox. I am not sure, however, that we will have success with such a proposal at the moment, because once again: we are trying to bring about a procedure and a process with Turkey. We are trying to get a dialogue and a dialogue that can be constructive and where we can bring the issues forward. I think we can have this with us, but I am far from sure that we would be successful with such a proposal at the moment. This requires both parties to cooperate on it. However, as you can hear, Mrs Pethrus, I have a positive view of all the proposals that can help to equip us better to follow developments closely and to ensure that things go in the right direction. Then I'd like to ask you a question. What's the alternative to calling? Of course, we must continue our efforts. Through the EU's proximity and through the channels we can have on a UN track or in bilateral tracks, we must continue the dialogue. We must continue to press for the very things that Hans Linde and others have listed to ensure that what we saw as a success and as democratic progress in the early 2000s is not now suddenly interrupted and moving in the other direction. We have seen far too many signs that this is what is happening, and we have seen too many issues that we must protest against and demand to stop. We are, of course, calling for Turkey and the PKK to stop acts of violence, because this is the only chance of actually bringing about a peace process again. I do not hear anyone saying that we should suspend all our contacts with Turkey, but we must balance the difficult situation we have now in both making clear demands and finding cooperation that will enable us to actually advance the positions of the European Union in the important areas. The horrendous violence we have seen recently and the attacks on the civilian population, which are already suffering badly, must stop. We need Turkey in talks on how to address the biggest challenges in the EU's neighbourhood. This applies not least to the refugee situation and the crisis in Syria. I myself have spoken with the Turkish Foreign Minister about, among other things, oil pipelines, which are incredibly important when it comes to attacking Daish. Of course, we must maintain such contacts, and we must balance them with being clear about what we are demanding in the form of reforms.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-532	Mr President, I would like to It is very important, as we have also emphasised, with talks. The problem is that one party is marked with terror and the other party is the State of Turkey, which itself commits crimes. Therefore, the other party also needs to come to the talks. It is also not only the EU that is going to carry out the talks, but I hope that Margot herself and Sweden will also take the initiative. That is why my question is still: does Sweden and the Minister for Foreign Affairs want to do something in the EU to lift the stamp? The decision is outdated. It was taken a while ago, and there has been a conspiracy of just one side. The other side is committing violations of human rights. We have heard the UN Human Rights Envoy say this in January, and we have seen that. We see and hear it every day. You can't have a peace talks with just one side. We must have both sides, and the other side is marked with terror. I will repeat that neither the European Union nor any other country will negotiate with a party that is terroristised, such as the PKK. That is why this is a fundamental condition for a peaceful solution to the Kurdish question. It should simply be equal. Of course, both sides that have committed crimes should stand for it and be punished. I think the PKK has done that. The leader is in prison for 15 years, and the organization has been dissolved for many years. It's time. This is the only prerequisite for the people of Kurdistan.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-536	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for this debate, which I am absolutely convinced will continue in various forms. It is hardly the case that we see so many lights or signs that developments in Turkey would turn around. I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for several of the statements that have been made, although I would have liked them to be a little sharper in a number of areas. At the same time, after being in Parliament for a while – I am in my third term – I can see that we did not really see the kind of statements we have heard from Margot Wallström during the eight, very long, years with Carl Bildt as Minister of Foreign Affairs. I think it is important that we have talks and an open dialogue with Turkey and its government. But the question is also what kind of message we want to send. What is the message from the EU that is being felt in Turkey today, in the Turkish Government and among people around Turkey? Unfortunately, I do not believe that the message that is being heard in Turkey is that the EU is consistently standing up for human rights and democracy. I believe that the message we are rather hearing today is that the European Union is prepared to compromise on human rights as long as Turkey stops refugees to cross the Mediterranean. I believe that both Ankara and ordinary people throughout Turkey feel that the EU is prepared to turn a blind eye to some of the abuses now being committed as long as Turkey keeps its air bases open to the West's fighter planes. During the pause in this interpellation debate, I saw that there was a letter from HDP, the party Margot Wallström described as a sister party to the Social Democrats, clearly expressing a very strong concern that the EU is now beginning to compromise on human rights and democracy. It becomes a pawn among many others in a larger negotiation game. Democracy and human rights are a pawn, and refugees and the war against Daish become another pawn. I find this extremely worrying, and I hope that we can have a clearer and more consistent policy on democracy and human rights in Turkey. Then it will be problematic to send SEK 700 million, without any conditions, to Turkey.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-542	Mr President, I would like to I apologise for not paying enough attention when I received an answer from the Foreign Minister. I was talking to another minister about the next interpellation. That's not good. I would like to highlight two points. One is the means and resources that Turkey wants. I just saw on Twitter and Voice of America that Erdo中an has said that if he does not get this money, he will expel all refugees to Europe. That alone says a great deal about the problem of Turkey. But whether it is now 700 million to go from Swedish taxpayers or 3 billion to go from the EU to Turkey, there must be some sort of what we in aid usually talk about as conditionality, that is, there must be clear requirements. It must be highlighted more, I think, both by the European Union and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The second is to offer Turkey the money and say: we assume that peace talks will resume between the Turkish Government and the PKK. From the Christian Democrats' side, we have not proposed removing the stamping of the PKK. On the other hand, we believe that it is important that the conversation that was held earlier can continue, and we will contribute to that. Here, as I have written in my interpellation, you could use the Folke Bernadotte Academy. They have worked a lot with this kind of dialogue. I have checked with them; they have not received such a request. Perhaps you could offer that opportunity. It was just two tapes. One was conditionality, and the other was what Sweden can contribute to increase the pace of peace talks.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-547	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for an important and good debate. I just want to say something short about this with the listing of the PKK. Sweden complies with EU legislation in this area and is one of the countries in the EU that operates a legal security line most of all. We believe that the grounds for listing should be clear and verifiable, that the European Court of Justice should be followed in similar cases, that listed should be informed of the grounds and be able to complain to the European Court of Justice, and that the European Union should remove lists as soon as possible if a court has found them wrong or if the grounds for listing are no longer considered to be met. So we think that what we have to stick to are clear criteria and that it should be legally certain – just so that Amineh Kakabaveh knows how we see it. Nor do I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you should totally underestimate the European Union in relation to these talks. Of course you would like to make everything conditional and say: If you do not do this or there will be absolutely no money! There is a risk that a whole negotiation will be locked up in that way and will not get anywhere. We have the habit of having this kind of conversation, even with regimes that can be quite difficult to talk to. Of course, it's important how we run this. Now it is a procedure that has been set in motion. It is a dialogue, a dialogue, a cooperation that has been started. I believe that the European Union is, in fact, making clear its views on the rule of law, freedom of expression and all that is our fundamental values. We will continue to do so. But it is a question of balancing these interests and maintaining the dialogue in order to push and push the development in the right direction. It is important for Turkey's future.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-552	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Pethrus has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to make asylum seekers Christians feel safe in asylum homes. She has also asked me whether I am going to take any legislative initiatives or take any other measure to strengthen the protection of those affected by hate crimes, threats or harassment. In 2015, almost 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden. More than 110 000 of these came in the last four months of the year. Despite the historically high influx, the Migration Agency was able to offer accommodation to everyone on the day they applied for asylum, with the exception of a few days in November. In order to do this, however, the Migration Board has been forced to densify the residents while the processing times have become longer. It is obvious that all asylum seekers should be able to feel safe during their stay in the accommodation. Responsibility for the safety of accommodation for asylum seekers lies with the Finnish Immigration Service, which cooperates closely with the Police Authority on these issues. As a measure to increase control when it comes to both external influences and disorder of order inside accommodation, the Police Authority has trained security officers at a faster pace on behalf of, among other things, the Migration Agency. The total number of guards and security guards has more than doubled in asylum accommodation. The Police Authority interacts locally with these actors on issues related to security measures and has also implemented efforts to improve the ability of individual accommodations in cases where they have been found to be inadequate. If there are criminal acts on accommodation for asylum seekers, it must be reported and investigated by the police. The Finnish Immigration Service does not divide into ethnicity or religion in asylum homes. I think that is a reasonable principle. All asylum seekers offered a place at asylum accommodations are informed of the housing rules applicable. The information shows that everyone living in the accommodation should be able to feel safe in their living environment and that it is therefore important that everyone in the accommodation respects each other and shows consideration to each other, regardless of religion, culture or sexual orientation. It is self-evident that those who run for refuge in our country also comply with Sweden's laws when they come here. In recent months, the government has taken a number of difficult but necessary decisions on measures aimed at reducing the number of asylum seekers seeking asylum to Sweden. The number of asylum seekers is now at a significantly lower level than in October and November 2015. This makes it easier for the Migration Agency to take measures to reduce the concerns that arise in the housing sector, partly due to long processing times and uneven distribution. In addition to the measures taken to reduce the number of asylum seekers, it is also important that asylum seekers are given the opportunity of meaningful employment during their waiting period. An important part of this is the role of civil society in the reception and establishment of new arrivals in different ways. The Government has therefore allocated SEK 200 million to civil society organisations, study associations and the sports movement. The money will be used to enable the organisations to make use of voluntary engagement and create perseverance in their work. In the field of education, for example, it is about strengthening knowledge in Swedish and about society and promoting participation in society for asylum seekers and persons who have been granted a residence permit and still live in asylum homes. The judiciary also plays an important role in the work against hate crimes. This role needs to be further strengthened. In the spring of 2015, the Police Authority presented a number of proposals to develop the work to combat hate crime in response to a government mission. The government has always been clear that the initiative of the Political Authority will be followed up in order to ensure that the measures have the intended effect. The regulations for 2016 therefore require the Police Authority to report what measures have been taken as a result of the mission to develop the work to combat hate crime. As previously announced, in the spring the government will develop a national plan against racism and similar forms of hostility. It will include measures against hate crimes. The plan takes a concerted approach to these issues and lays the foundation for long-term and results-oriented work.
i-C8C7u2nPLFdTMAoBdqAP7h	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, for your answer! Last December, I submitted a written question to the Minister for Migration on the vulnerability of Christians to asylum homes – about harassment, threats and violence affecting them. In his answer to the question, the Minister did not even specifically mention the vulnerability of Christians. Every week I receive e-mails and phone calls about what is happening out at our asylum accommodations to Christian people. It's scary. Churches and individuals try to help people as best they can. Sometimes they simply evacuate people and help them with other accommodations. I myself have met several asylum seekers who describe the situation in asylum homes, which I take as an example in my interpellation to the Minister. These are serious issues such as stabbing and concrete threats. It may be about Muslims who have converted to Christianity but who are threatened by others in the accommodation if they do not participate in the Friday prayer and so on. It may be someone who shares a room with others and wants his Bible out. It triggers conflict. Another, as I have here, cannot wear a cross without being harassed. It is not only threats but sometimes also real attacks with knives. Yeah, they'll have to report it to the police. But what happens next? They get to go back to the home and sit in a room with those who have attacked them. Is that acceptable? How would the Minister himself have felt in such a situation? We see that various Christian groups and churches are helping the vulnerable. They're trying to find other accommodations. Sometimes it goes with other asylum accommodations, and sometimes they get to arrange sheltered apartments. Is it reasonable that it is not the victim of violence who has to take the consequence of his actions, but the victim who has to move? It's like in the school world, where the bullied get out of the way but not the bully. It doesn't make sense. I would like to stress that everyone, regardless of religion, should feel safe. It is not about taking a stand for or against any religion, but about Sweden being characterized by and also in the future being characterized by religious freedom and that hate crimes of all kinds should be counteracted by society. Nor should sex or sexual orientation pose threats of various kinds. There must be protection for those under threat. When I thought that the Minister in his answer to my question in December did not seem to take this seriously, I wrote the interpellation to which I have now been given an answer. I continue to be amazed that this time the Minister does not dare to mention the vulnerability of Christians. What's so dangerous? Why is what is happening to Christians in asylum homes neglected by the Minister and the government? The Finnish Immigration Service's Press Office has stated that if you are a victim of a crime, a police report must be made so that the police can take the necessary measures and prosecute a possible offender. What does the Minister think should happen to those who threaten or practice violence in asylum accommodation? Is there going to be any consequence right away? Or is there impunity in the practice of threats and violence in asylum homes? I and many others would like answers to these questions. It is people who have participated in the discussion, followed the question and who marveled at me every day and asked: Why is nothing concrete for this group? Why are the specific threats to Christians in asylum homes neglected?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-573	Mr President, I would like to An obvious starting point for us is that everyone should feel safe in their asylum accommodations. This is right, and it is especially important when you have just come to Sweden after a long and perhaps dangerous flight. We have an obvious obligation to make sure that we can feel safe in our provision. Sweden should be able to offer that security. That is why it is important, as I say in the interpellation response, that the residents have clear rules of conduct so that the police are involved if there is a fight, violence or harassment and that a police report is made immediately. I am well aware that Christians can be particularly vulnerable in these contexts. I, too, get testimony about this through e-mails and other contacts. I am not at all afraid to raise this issue, and it is extremely important that we are clear that asylum homes should be a haven for people who have fled war and persecution. These people have a right to it. If this is done, it is reported to the police, and the main rule must be that it is the one who is harassing who is allowed to move, not the one who is being harassed. However, as everyone knows, we are currently in a very strained situation in our asylum accommodations. That is why we need to work not only with clear messages and guidelines but with preventive action. One of these preventive measures is to acquire more accommodation so that we can reduce overcrowding and have more opportunity to achieve the type of movement that may need to be made. In my interpellation response, I mention that we have doubled the number of security guards and security guards in order to deal with this, and I think it is important. What applies are clear codes of conduct, police reporting, clear guidelines and the police's strict view of this. I also mention that we need to strengthen the police's work against hate crimes. Prevention is also important, i.e. to acquire more accommodation. In the spring we may need up to 20 000 more accommodations to be able to go back to a more normal situation, including in terms of surface area and how many people will live in each accommodation. With regard to prevention, we must also ensure that there is meaningful employment and education. The study associations are doing a fantastic job here. Last year we set aside money for the study associations. In the autumn and until the end of the year, they had started training for 50 000 asylum seekers. It is not just about Swedish but about social science and information about which laws and rules apply in Sweden and what approach we are expected to have towards each other. We also need to work on shortening the processing times, because that is an important part of the frustration picture. We must see the problems that exist, not ignore them, but, on the contrary, take them very seriously. At the same time, however, there is a tendency outside this house to want to blow up the problems and give them excessive proportions. When it comes to police emergency services, approximately 1 per cent can be linked to migration accommodation.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-584	Mr President, I would like to I have worked with gender equality, vulnerable women, honour violence and people who are particularly vulnerable in a context. Here we are talking about people who have fled, for example from Iraq, where there were previously 1.3 million Christians. Today, 250 000 people have taken refuge in Iraqi Kurdistan, and they feel no security. When they come to Sweden, they believe that they have come to a country where freedom of religion and security prevail, but at the asylum home they are exposed to powerful threats and violence. However, I have not heard either the Minister or the Director-General of the Migration Agency say that this is unacceptable and that there is a need for a statement in this House. I would like to hear this in the media as well. In his reply, the Minister says in his explanation of the violence in asylum homes that many people have applied for asylum, that they are densified accommodation and that they have fewer square metres to move around. It may be an explanation, but it's not a defense of what's happening. I understood when I heard the Director-General of the Migration Agency on SVT's Agenda last Sunday that he thinks this is something to take when you have so many people gathered in one place. It is a frightening view to ignore the people who are vulnerable. In the newspaper Dagen last Tuesday, Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman stated that Christianophobic crimes on asylum accommodations are not his first-hand soro. How do you interpret that? What we are now seeing is a government that only ignores and reduces the problem faced by these vulnerable Christians in asylum homes. There is neither the will nor the ability to act, and there are no public statements made by the government to put an end to this. In Svenska Dagbladet you could read the other day that there are four private LGBTQ certified asylum accommodations in Sweden. That is good, because this group is also exposed to hate crimes and other crimes. A representative of the Finnish Immigration Service is speaking in the newspaper and says that there is a dialogue with RFSL on special accommodations for this particularly vulnerable group. But why should vulnerable Christians not have their own accommodations? I don't want it to be like this. I wish it worked in asylum homes. I don't want us to split into different groups. But if they cannot be protected, the only way to solve the situation is to protect them. Many with me wonder why there are no accommodations for all who seek protection and who cannot be protected. The police state in the media that 5,000 incidents are linked to refugee homes in recent times, 600 of which concern assaults. The Director General of the Finnish Immigration Service says that this is quite normal in an ordinary Swedish population with the number that has arrived. Well, that's one way to reason, but I think it's a strange comparison. These are people who have come to seek protection, and at the same time some of them engage in the practice of acts on others in their vicinity who cannot feel protected in Sweden. This is an untenable situation. My question to the Minister is: Is it a normal occurrence that this type of crime takes place on our premises and that threats and violence are to be reckoned with, as the Director General of the Migration Agency says?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-599	Mr President, I would like to Désirée Pethrus chooses both to pull out sentences and also to misinterpret what I say. As I said in my first speech, this is not acceptable. Any violation, harassment, violence or whatever we are talking about is not acceptable. Then society, with the tools we have, must do what we can to try to both intervene against it and prevent it, both. There is no reason at all that any of us should stand and belittle that this has happened, because that is it. There is a difference between defending an act and seeking explanations for it. That's the difference I wanted to make clear. There is no justification for any kind of violence, but preventive action can be taken to prevent it from happening. Such preventive measures are, for example, to ensure that there are safe and clear rules of conduct and information on housing, that education and information are provided to the student associations, that it is known that if you do this, it will have a consequence, not only that you are reported to the police, that the police are intervening and investigating, but also that if you are convicted there is a burden in the asylum process. We also need to be clear about that clarity. Whatever any representative has said now, Mrs Pethrus should not interpret it as a minor problem. On the contrary, we say that we must ensure that all people in this situation can feel safe. How do you do that? Through clarity in the message, but also by better helping to reduce frustrations and all that hurts. Many of those who come have a traumatic experience with them when they come to Sweden, a country that they do not know very much about. Then they have to live in uncertainty if they are to have the opportunity to stay in Sweden at all. And often, as it stands today, they live very crowded in the homes. We must also dare to take this on board. One important thing in order to be able to acquire more accommodation and ensure that it becomes a better environment is that from 1 March we can assign refugees who have been granted a residence permit to municipalities and that these municipalities must receive them. This was the Christian Democrats against for a very long time. After all, you did not want such a code of instruction. But it is part of a strategy to make it easier for us to deal with the situation now. Clearness is what applies, clear consequences if you violate existing guidelines and preventive measures. I think this is the way forward: explain what is not acceptable and rapid and resolute intervention.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-604	Mr President, I would like to I don't feel safe with the Minister's answer. The Minister says there will be consequences. Yes, there may be consequences for the asylum seeker who has exercised violence after two years of asylum seeking. In the meantime, the person should be at home and pose threats to others who may have a Christian background while the other has a different religion. That is totally unacceptable. If I don't remember wrong, both me and the Minister are socionomists. We behavioural scientists understand that people are characterized by what they have experienced. But to a woman who has been threatened in a relationship, we do not say: We have filed a police report. Now you get to go home to the man and sit there. Instead, we set up sheltered accommodations. We are somehow trying to resolve the situation. We have action plans on how to address this. I want to see an action plan from the government. What is the action plan? What is to be done concretely? I do not want to hear excuses from either the Minister or the Director-General of the Migration Board that this is the sort of thing to expect, that it is so crowded and so on. After all, there are many who have previously also declared violence against women, to put up with the violence. We can't have a situation like this. I must be able to go back to those who work and meet these people and say: The government will do this, and we have an action plan that we politicians have managed to produce. What is the concrete action plan? A little more guards? But many of these residents are far out in the woods. There are not even staff there, but you offer a regular accommodation with food. What are we gonna do? Otherwise, the alternative is to have special accommodation, in the same way as for LGBT people, for Christians.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-609	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps Mrs Pethrus has not really listened to what I have said. I have said that there must be clear consequences. If it is the case that you commit some kind of crime, the consequences should be directed towards the person who has harassed or committed the crime. Then the first option, as in the situation of violence against women, should be that it is the person who commits the crime that is to be moved. I said that in my first post, and there I thought I was clear. Then I'm not a socionomist. I'm a political scientist. Nevertheless, I am trying to reason on what basic factors may be that make the situation worse. Then it is about that there are a lot of people living right now and that it is crowded. But that's not the whole explanation at all, but there are also quite other things like prejudices and contradictions from the past and different religious beliefs that are recording here. I also said in my first speech that I am fully aware that Christians in these situations may have a particularly vulnerable situation and that, therefore, we are vigilant about this and that society is prepared to take action. And I've described those kinds of measures. We will, of course, be following this issue very closely in the future. If we find that the measures we take – more security guards, more training, more information and more police intervention – are not enough, we will simply have to come back to the question of what other measures we should take in that case. But right now we have quite a lot in our toolbox that we can use.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-613	Mr President, I would like to The National Coordinator against violence in close relations finalised his mission in June 2014. The report contains a number of proposals in various areas. In this context, Ellen Juntti has asked the Minister for the Interior whether it is reasonable that it should take two years to make proposals in an area that the Government claims to prioritise, and when the Government will present these proposals, if it is this year or will be even longer. The responsibility within the government is so shared that it is I who should answer the interpellation. As Ellen Juntti herself has pointed out, the task of the national coordinator was to create a pool of forces to combat violence in close relationships. It was an operational mission primarily aimed at bringing together and supporting stakeholders in order to increase the efficiency, quality and long-term sustainability of the work. If necessary, proposals would be made to improve the work and develop collaboration. Since the government took office, we have decided on no less than eight measures directly linked to the coordinator's proposal. We have given government assignments to the Police Authority and the Soc Parliamentary Board to assist victims of violence in collecting personal belongings at home. A national knowledge centre on violence and abuse of children has been established at Linköping University. "The women's emergency services have been greatly strengthened as we have allocated SEK 100 million annually over the next few years. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with evaluating experimental activities with routine issues of violence in healthcare and social services. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has recently also been tasked with further developing and supporting the implementation of active methods in the social services to work with perpetrators of violence. This includes differentiation of methods based on needs. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare will also further develop and support the implementation of methods in the work of social services for children who are exposed or at risk of being subjected to violence in the family. In addition, the Police Authority has been commissioned to report how it works with transnational cases where there is suspicion of honour-related violence and oppression, marriage against its own will or child marriage. Finally, the new ANDT strategy was decided last week. It now more clearly includes violence in close relationships and the link between such violence and the use of alcohol and drugs. I would also like to mention that the study on a national strategy against violence against women (SOU 2015:55) has analysed the socio-economic effects of men's violence against women in close relationships. All in all, therefore, nine measures, directly linked to the coordinator's proposal, are taken care of. Preventing and counteracting violence in close relationships is a high priority of the government. We have set a clear target of reducing the proportion of people in the population exposed to violence in close relationships. To achieve this goal, the Government attaches great importance to developing preventive work. The focus is on men's responsibility and participation, as well as on masculinity standards. To this end, the Government has also taken a number of other measures in this area. We have not yet taken a final position on the other proposals from the National Coordinator against violence in close relations. There are good reasons for that. We wanted to wait for the reports of the Gender Equality Report (SOU 2015:86) and the report on a national strategy to end men's violence against women(SOU 2015:55). These two investigations are partly related to the same issues and problems. The referral procedure has recently been completed. The proposals are being prepared, and I do not want to anticipate that preparation. However, the ambition is to present both a national strategy and other measures this year.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-627	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. I have put the interpellation on violence in close relationships because I think it is a very important subject and area, where we must do everything we can to combat violence. The Alliance government also thought so, and that is why we appointed a national coordinator, Carin Götblad, who was going to take the push that the Minister of Justice mentioned. She left the report Violence in close relations – a public health issue in June 2014, as the Minister said. The report contains over 50 different proposals. This applies to various actors: social services, health services and the judiciary. When the government took office in autumn 2014, the report was on the table. Although the government has implemented some measures, there are not many, given the number of proposals contained in the report. However, I am pleased with the proposals that have been made. Among other things, I am very pleased with the national knowledge centre on violence and abuse of children. So did we Moderates in our election manifesto, and we had intended to carry it out. So that's good. Given that the government states in its budget that it is a feminist government and that this area is a high priority, I am nevertheless rather disappointed with the government. Nine measures in over a year and a half seem to me far too few. These are fine words to say that you are a feminist government, but a little more action is needed. In any case, in the list of proposals submitted by the government in January, there were no proposals whatsoever in the area of justice relating to this area. This is important given that an average of 17 women per year are murdered by a loved one. Added to this are attempts at murder, rape, and gross violations of women's rights. It also includes crimes against children. There are a great many police reports, and it must also be borne in mind that there is a great deal of darkness when it comes to these crimes. Women, children and even men who are victims of violence in close relationships are greatly harmed. That is why proposals should be made a little faster. The Minister said in his reply that the government wanted to wait for two other investigations. How long do you wait? Every year, a lot of people get hurt. As I said, an average of 17 women per year are killed, and many others are injured for life. Children are also exposed. I think it is a bad result with this few proposals in one and a half years. By autumn, as far as the bill list is sufficient, it has been two years. I wonder if the Minister is satisfied with the result – the few proposals that the government has made?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-635	Mr President, I would like to In practice, Ellen Juntti has two questions in her interpellation. The first is: why should it take two years before the government makes proposals? Why haven't you brought more in these two years? The second is: why have there been only two proposals so far? There are two claims and two errors. First of all, we haven't been sitting for two years. We've been sitting for a year and four months, if I'm going to be exact. Secondly, we have not made just two proposals. In the interpellation response, I line up nine actions directly linked to Carin Götblad's actions that we have already delivered. We have done this in a year and four months. As I said, the report came in the summer of 2014. The question then arises: What did the bourgeois do in their day? The Moderates led the Justice Department for eight years. In year one, nothing was done against violence in close relationships. In the second year, nothing was done against violence in close relationships. In the year three, nothing was done. In the year four, nothing was done. In the year five, nothing was done. In six years, an investigation was set up. In seven years, the investigation was pending. In eight years the investigation was received. It is the result of the bourgeois years when the Moderates led the Ministry of Justice. And so you say that we are gentle. Now we've delivered. 52 proposals were included in Mr Götblad's report. We have delivered on nine of these items in one year and four months. Perhaps the most important point, apart from some of the changes in behaviour, is that we greatly strengthen the resources for women's shelters. From 2014 to 2016 we will increase the resources for women's shelters by nearly SEK 100 million on an annual basis. That is more than a threefold increase in resources. We know what the situation is at the women's shelters. Many of them have to say no to those seeking support, help and housing because they simply do not have enough places. We know that there is an enormous need, and that is why we are prepared to spend so much money. We will try to ensure that we can offer more support and help. In addition, from this year onwards, we are making a substantial contribution to the victim support services. They also play an important role in this. They don't have their own accommodation in this way, but they can support those who have filed a crime report – in this case, it's about violence in close relationships – so that you can handle the court process and get support and help in the very sensitive situation that this can be about. We are now turning the state resources up to the crime victims' shelters in a way that the bourgeois government never had the strength to cope with. Overall, it is probably the case that this government has delivered much more than the previous government has done in one year and four months in terms of victim support and support for women who are victims of violence. And this is only the first year. Give us a few more years and we'll be able to handle the whole package!
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-643	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice. In fact, no one would be happier than me if the government set off. Violence in close relationships is an urgent area to combat, so I'm glad if you deliver lots of good suggestions. I have not said that the government has been in office for two years. I referred to the fact that it has been two years when the time of the bill is running out. I have written that there were two proposals. That's where I got misinformation. But even if it is true that the government has delivered nine proposals, there are still very few proposals in one and a half years, or two years in the autumn. It has to be said, at least in view of the fact that the government has quite high tails when it calls itself a feminist government and gives this issue high priority. I therefore do not think that there is much delivered. I also wanted to ask you a few questions about crimes against children, because I think that's almost even more important. Children who grow up with violence and who are often also themselves victims of violence are affected to a much greater extent by their failure to pass school. This leads to unemployment, vulnerability and exclusion. Many end up in crime and abuse. It is therefore important to put an end to domestic violence, not least for the sake of children. Save the Children submitted a report last year that there are long processing times when it comes to investigating crimes against children. When there is a reasonably suspected person, the prosecution shall be instituted within 90 days, or the case shall be closed. In a lot of places, you can't do this. Some do quite well, to 80 - 90 percent, but for example Norrköping can only handle 48 percent, i.e. less than half of the cases. This is worrying because the longer the time goes by, the harder it will be to prove a crime. The child can forget, be threatened or be influenced to say that it has not been beaten, or what crime it is about. The dangerous thing is that if you can't prove it, the investigation will be closed. Often the child is allowed to go home again, and this is a major concern, for most children who are victims of crime will be in their own homes where they will feel the safest. The national coordinator has proposed a coherent deadline for the whole legal process, and I think that is a very good proposal. Now there are different time limits for hearings with the child and when prosecution should be instituted, but there is no time limit for hearings to start after prosecution has been instituted. I've spoken to prosecutors dealing with child cases and learned that sometimes there can be up to six months between prosecution and court hearings. That is not acceptable. For example, a 12 to 13-year-old who has been raped knows what is going on, and then think to wait six months before you are told how it goes. That is not acceptable. These cases must also be dealt with quickly in order to secure evidence. When it comes to assaulting the smallest children between zero and six years of age, only 8 percent of cases are cleared up because they are the most difficult to prove. A major reason why it takes time is also that there are too few children's interviewers.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-653	Madam President, I would like It is not just a question of counting proposals, it is a question of the importance of the various proposals, of how important they are and of what their real impact is. There are 52 proposals in the investigation, and we have delivered on nine of them. We are continuing to prepare the proposals further, and we have also received further proposals from the other two investigations I was talking about. During this year, we will be able to present a national strategy to make society even better at combating these crimes, both in terms of violence in close relationships in general and in terms of violence against children. I would, for example, like to see us continue the extension of what is called children's houses, i.e. places for coherent investigations into crimes against children. It has proved to be extremely effective and important. Ultimately, it is about the various resources we are prepared to devote to this. As I have said and as this government has been clear, we will continue to give priority to the work against violence in close relations and crimes against children. This applies, moreover, in the judicial system in general – crimes against children should be given priority and take precedence over other objectives. There may be opportunities for us to find other ways of ensuring that the judicial system is even more effective in that area. I am, of course, prepared to look into that. This issue is a high priority for the government, and I am happy to have a continued dialogue with the opposition on what proposals exist in both this and other investigations in order for us to move forward. What I find hard to accept, and I highlighted that in my first post, is the hope that we do not deliver, do not take this seriously or do not make sure to do things. I am quite proud of what we have managed to do in one year and four months. Give us some more time and we will be able to deliver even more in this regard, preferably in cooperation with the opposition.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-658	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your answer. Some proposals and measures have been delivered, but I wish there had been more. I would like to say a few words about the fact that many people are relapsing into crime, particularly perpetrators of violence. Seventy percent of those in prison relapse into crime within three years. Of those convicted of violent crime, 32% are undergoing a treatment program. Just recently, the Crime Prevention Council reported that half of those who attended the treatment program thought it had been good and thought it would have such an effect on them that the relapse risk would be lower. That sounds good, I think, but the same report also showed that everyone who wants to join the treatment program is not able to do so. I find that troubling. I think everyone who wants to take part in the program should. Many times this is not so nice and kind boys when they come out. More than once, when they return home, they are guilty of quite serious assault. The National Coordinator also proposes to develop the treatment of the perpetrator and to tighten the penalty for breach of the restraining order. That is what I think we really need to look at. The government says that the ambition is to present proposals this year. I think it sounds a little uncertain that this is the ambition. Is this coming this year, next year or when? I would also like to thank you for the debate, but I still wanted to conclude with a sharp question.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-664	Madam President, I would like On the sharp question comes a sharp answer. That answer is yes. We will ensure that this national strategy is delivered this year. The basis of the strategy is Carin Götblad's investigation and the two other investigations that I touched upon in my interpellation response. We make sure to gather together those investigations' proposals for action, and then we can deliver it in a package. The parts that we need to take to the Riksdag we bring here, and the parts that we can use by giving authority assignments or treating in some other way we can take care of ourselves. It is not just our ambition but our assurance that we will be able to do this this year.
i-Q17SmmSjh8Vi7HNNDBcDB3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christina Örnebjär, for the question! Christina Örnebjär has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that social services around the country do not legitimise child marriage by, for example, placing girls with people they are alleged to be married to. Christina Örnebjär has also asked me what I intend to do to ensure that social services around the country carry out protection assessments of all unaccompanied minors placed with relatives and that follow-ups regarding the children's situation are repeated. Children should be children, and in Sweden it is not allowed to marry children. Every girl and every boy has the right to their childhood and youth. Children should not be married and live in marriage. Children should develop, go to school and live in freedom from the responsibility of adult life. I am concerned about the unaccompanied girls who come to Sweden and other countries in Europe who are at risk of, for example, human trafficking, violence or sexual abuse. We know that it is worse in terms of education and work for unaccompanied girls than for the corresponding boys. These differences are an important challenge for the government and society at large. Since 1 July 2014, the minimum age for marriage in Sweden is, without exception, 18 years. In many parts of the world it still looks different and it is not possible to ban child marriages in other countries in Swedish law. On the other hand, we can work to ensure that other countries ban child marriage. For the children who are in our country, we shall ensure that they receive the protection and support to which they need and are entitled. It is also important to make it clear in the debate that there is some scope under Swedish law to recognise marriages that have been concluded abroad, despite the fact that the marriage was concluded at a time when one of the parties was under the age of 18. It is ultimately a matter for courts and authorities other than social services to decide whether a marriage concluded abroad should be recognised or not in Sweden. Asylum-seeking children who come to Sweden without their parents and are married are considered unaccompanied children. This means that married girls should be treated in the same way as other unaccompanied children in our reception system. The Social Services shall investigate and assess the needs of the child in accordance with the Social Services Act. The fact that a child is married often serves as a reason for social services to pay particular attention to the child's situation and need for support. When social services decide where it is most appropriate for the child to be placed, an individual assessment must always be made. In the assessment of social services, the best interests of the child must always be taken into account. I and the rest of the government assume that Swedish law is complied with. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has established a response function for questions related to the refugee situation to support social services in the work with unaccompanied children. The National Board of Health and Welfare is also working to clarify the support for social services regarding the placement of unaccompanied children who are married. On the issue of assessments and follow-up of unaccompanied minors placed with relatives, I share Christina Örnebjär's view that it is particularly important that girls are not placed with persons who are said to be relatives but that an assessment is made that shows that it is best in the individual case. When a child is placed, consideration should primarily be given to whether the child can be received by a family member or other family member under the Social Services Act. Of course, what is best for the child should always be considered. When the child is to be placed with a family member or family member, there must always be a customary investigation that is followed up for other family homes and care in the same way as the other family homes by the social welfare board. Children can also be accepted in an individual home with relatives, so-called private placement. An explicit agreement is then required between the guardians and the relatives in Sweden. After that, the social welfare board shall conduct a consent investigation. If the investigation reveals that the child may need support or protection from the social services, an investigation of the child's needs shall be initiated and such investigation may in turn show that it is justified to place the child in a family home. I would like to emphasise that private placement is not a placement recommended by the National Board of Health and Welfare for unaccompanied minors, on the contrary. It is likely that social services cannot be entirely sure that it is the decisions of the guardians themselves because they are not available. Based on a life situation as a lonely girl or boy in a new country, there may also be a need for special support to live and develop in the best way. Here social services must pay attention to girls who need special support. When it comes to protection assessments, this is regulated by the Social Services Act. When social services receive a report, such as the fact that a girl is married, they must immediately assess whether the child is in need of immediate protection. Such assessment shall be documented. The Government has taken a number of measures to support municipalities in view of the refugee situation. Examples of such measures are that the compensation to the municipalities for the reception of new arrivals was increased on 1 January 2016, by agreement with the opposition, an additional contribution of SEK 9.8 billion was made. Social services and child welfare and youth services amounted to 1 billion over four years. We have therefore taken a series of measures to strengthen social care for children and young people. The government takes the work against child marriage very seriously. The legislative changes made in 2014 to strengthen protection against child and forced marriages will be evaluated. It is very important for me as Minister for Children, Equality and Social Services to always be on the side of girls and women.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-683	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for your answer. No, we cannot change the laws of other countries. We cannot ban child marriage in the laws of other countries, but we can choose how we relate to them. A few years ago it was a rather attentive case in Sweden. It was an Italian father who beat his son. They were here on vacation. From the authority it was very clear that in Sweden Swedish law applies. Barnaga is not allowed, so the man was convicted of assault. This Swedish case raised the question of child abuse in Italy. One forum for the debate was the Italian Save the Children page on Facebook, which asked the question: Do you think you can raise a child without using punches and mild physical punishment? The obvious answer from the vast majority was yes. The issue of a change of law was also highlighted. Similarly, clarity from Sweden on this issue is important. Child marriage and forced marriage are never allowed and will never be sanctioned by Swedish society. It is an important and clear signal to other countries. The law must apply equally to everyone. We Liberals call for the removal of all exemptions that contribute to the maintenance of children's and forced marriages entered into abroad. The echo previously revealed that girls under the age of 18 – and some as young as under the age of 15 – who have been married away in their home country are registered as married when they come to Sweden and placed under the same roof as the men with whom they were married. We are rightly proud to be the fourth most equal country in the world. The question then is how this can be allowed. I will give you a brief background to the fact that it looks like it is today. In 2015, 46 police reports were made that did not proceed to prosecution. The prosecutor dropped all reports of child and forced marriages. They were shut down for lack of evidence. The question is how many victims now dare to go to the police and report the repression of honour when they know that all reports from the previous year were closed. It is also an important signal issue. Politics is showing a will and a direction. I am pleased that the Government is so clear in its answer that in Sweden Swedish law applies, and that she assumes that it is complied with. Unfortunately, we have seen that this is not the case. I would like the Government to explain even more clearly how she will ensure that social services comply with existing laws and regulations. We in the Liberals want to see an accident commission on child marriage. Is the government prepared to set up an accident commission? The Government concluded its written reply by stating that she and the Government are prepared to consider further measures to protect all girls and boys in Sweden against child marriages if necessary. We have now seen that the need exists. The question is how long should these girls and boys wait? We can see it's not working. What else is needed? Obviously, the legislation has not been followed. It goes without saying to me that new legislation is needed in this area. Foreign children's marriages must never be recognised in Sweden. The legislation was strengthened in 2014, but it is still possible – just as the Government says – for Swedish authorities to recognise child or forced marriages concluded abroad, if there are exceptional reasons. We Liberals have proposed that the law be amended to close the last gap. People who have ended up in child marriage and moved to Sweden must never be an argument for Swedish authorities to compromise on fundamental principles of equality and the inviolability of the individual.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-698	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christina Örnebjär, for mentioning the end of my answer! This is a complex issue that involves many different events in people's lives. At the same time, I think the principle is very important. Children should not be married and Swedish law should be followed. As far as other countries' legislation is concerned, we have international agreements, some binding and others not, on children's rights, women's rights and sexual and reproductive health. The issue of child marriage is often seen in the context of sexual and reproductive rights and health. I have been following the international debate for quite a number of years, from both international and Swedish sides. Few EU Member States express understanding or support for child marriage. On the other hand, they are much more divided into sexual and reproductive rights that are being called into question precisely when it comes to girls. It is even the case that support for sexual and reproductive rights in many countries has weakened over a 20-year period, despite good international agreements. Had f l l l lor had more right to self-determination, its own body and greater freedom to decide about its sexuality and so on, I think we had come further. Therefore, it is important to work for this in different ways as well and use our different networks, party contacts and whatever it may be, to influence development in a better direction. Of course, I will work for this when I go to New York and lead the Swedish delegation at the Women's Commission. At a seminar on migration and gender equality, I will address these issues together with the UN. I think it is very important to follow up on these issues. With regard to the municipalities that have been involved in Ekot's review, the JO has started work. I'll wait for it and I'd like to look at it. The latest legislation on child marriage is relatively new, from 2014. The Minister of Justice has said that it should be followed up, and I agree with that. Social services and social care for children and young people were under a very strong pressure when we took office. It's well covered. The many unaccompanied refugee children to be dealt with by social services, in addition to other children who need support from social services, have contributed to an even tougher situation. I hope that we can have a dialogue, not least with regard to the funds resulting from the agreement between the government and the opposition on the reception of refugees, 8 billion to the municipalities. I'm definitely going to do that on my part, and I've already started. Part of these funds can be invested in social care for children and young people in order to be able to work even more on an individual basis, based on the needs of children, to see the situation as it is with many unaccompanied refugee children and to solve it. At the same time, you need to have a strong gender perspective with you when you meet these children and try to think about various issues that you need to consider in order to support the children in the best way possible.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-708	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government once again. I fully share the views on sexual and reproductive health and rights and am pleased that the debate is being conducted by Sweden both nationally and internationally. As far as legislative change is concerned and the need to investigate and review, I think, as I said, that we have already seen that the need exists and that the law needs to be changed. Not least, we must ensure that the law that exists today is applied. I also agree that there are other measures and see that many are in the pipeline, but there are more things that are needed. Not least, education and competence development are needed to understand the context in which things happen. I welcome the work of the National Board of Health and Welfare to clarify support for social services regarding the placement of children who are married. There's more to be done there, too. We want a society where diversity is protected, an open society. However, it is not the opposite of saying at the same time that we can never accept child and forced marriages. It goes without saying that we do not accept limiting the self-determination of girls and women, or for that matter of boys. Fear and anxiety about being married away are related to both sexes. It affects both girls and boys. The National Board of Youth's report Married against their will from 2009 showed that 70 000 people in Sweden aged 16-25 felt that they could not choose partners freely. That was about 6.6 per cent of girls and women and 3.8 per cent of boys and men. Somewhere around 8 000 children and young people then lived with concern for threats and serious pressure from relatives and parents, and I find it difficult to believe that the figures are looking better today. It is important for social services to have knowledge of this area in order to know how to act, not least when it comes to the placement of unaccompanied children in relatives. Today there are many crimes committed with honorary motives within the framework of violence in close relationships, but the mechanisms behind the crimes are different, and it is therefore important to distinguish these crimes, so that you understand the structures and can act on them – within the judiciary, but also within the social services, where the children are. This is particularly important for children's safety and trust in Swedish society and its ability to defend and protect them. We Liberals have, among other things, pushed the issue of lex Fadime, a special penalty rule for crimes committed with honorary motives. Crimes and legislative changes are not in the government's area, but I hope that as Minister for Gender Equality she sees both that and why this is important. Clear legislation is also a prerequisite for the work of social services, and it is, of course, primarily in those areas where legislation is in place that staff are trained. Knowledge is power and a prerequisite for knowing what rights and obligations you have. Today, unaccompanied minors are not subject to existing rules on social orientation. There is a need to ensure that all children receive early information about their rights and obligations, about democratic values and how Swedish society is organised. We Liberals have proposed that the information should also reach the children placed with relatives. We see this as self-evident. Children and young people should know that the rule of law is on their side. Yesterday, however, the Riksdag voted against the Liberals' proposal that children and young people should have access to targeted and accessible information about their rights. I find it difficult to understand how the other parliamentary parties reasoned. I do not ask the Government to answer for how the other parliamentary parties have thought. On the other hand, I wonder whether the Government does not agree that all children and young people, including unaccompanied minors, should gain knowledge of their rights.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-716	Madam President, I would like Well, I think everyone should have knowledge of their rights. The fact that there were over 35 000 unaccompanied children to Sweden just last year creates strong pressure on social services. I have great respect for the people – especially women, but also some men – who work there under high pressure and do everything they can to try to cope with the situation. Very often, so do you. I mentioned earlier the funds that we have agreed together in relation to the reception of refugees. The government also strengthens social care for children and young people by 250 million per year over a four-year period in order to be able to staff what is needed or to organise and structure in different ways so as to recruit and retain staff. Social care for children and young people was, from the outset, a neglected area. I believe that this kind of knowledge is something that many socio-economicists and social secretaries have with them, but that is also what they want to develop. That's why you call the National Board of Health and Welfare's support phone and ask about this. They have also called the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, which has a special responsibility for coordinating issues related to honour-related violence and repression. The best use must be made of these resources. I do not rule out the need to do more, but we have taken a lot of decisions to strengthen social care for children and young people and to strengthen the reception of unaccompanied minors. I think it is very important to emphasise that we must have a gender perspective in this work, as in all other jobs. Therefore, social services have also been commissioned to ask systematically for experiences of violence or similar events, for example, so that you can understand who you have in front of you and how best to support that individual. I agree that it is important to follow up the legislation on child marriage. I won't interpret the law. Possibly there are situations where, for example, the two parties are very close in age on each side of the 18-year line and have a child. There are probably one or two exceptions. We need to review how this works. My starting point is that Swedish law should be followed, that children should be treated as children and that girls should have the right to decide over their own lives. It's supposed to be the guiding stars. When it comes to honour-related violence and repression, it is true that several of the things that Christina Örnebjär raised are things that Morgan Johansson has responsibility for in the government. But for me, which coordinates issues of equality and violence against women, this is a central issue. The figures that Christina Örnebjär lists are, of course, far too high. They should be zero. It is also an objective of gender equality policy that violence against women should cease. The government has contributed 100 million to women's and girls' shelters. Girls' helpers, in particular, often get conversations about situations like this. I have the opportunity to take a holistic approach to this, because I have been given a basis for a strategy against violence against women that includes this. I shall present a letter on gender equality policy including this. I also intend to tighten up the governance of gender equality policy, including in this area, to ensure that what we have planned to happen really happens using the resources we use in terms of money, time and people.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-726	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for the debate, which I regret to say will continue. It is a debate that we should not really have, because this is something that should not exist at all. The word "child marriage" shouldn't exist. When I told her I was going to debate child marriage today, I got a comment from Aya-- it's an 18-year-old girl from Kumla, from whom I come. She said: What I wonder is how to debate child marriage. What is there to debate? Is it not already obvious that it must not occur? It was a little hard having to answer that. I think both my answer and that of the Government to her is that this should of course be the case. We fully agree that children's marriages must not occur in Sweden. At the same time, it occurs. There are gaps in the law. From the Liberal side, we have been clear. We want an accident commission against child marriage. We want asylum seekers' children and all other children to know that they are never placed with the person who is said to be their husband. We want the Migration Agency and the Social Services to carry out more thorough protection assessments for all unaccompanied minors to be placed with relatives. We want all children, including unaccompanied minors, to know their rights. Last but not least, we want to close the last gaps in the ban on child marriage. My wish, of course, is for the government to consider the Liberals' proposals and to be as clear as we are against child marriage. Unfortunately, one exception often leads to another. I fully agree that social services have been under great pressure for many years. You do great things there. However, no matter how often this happens, each individual case is a tragedy, and it is a failure for society.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-732	Madam President, I would like I agree that we should not have to discuss this issue. Child marriage is ultimately a way to control girls' sexuality. It is also a vision that is about sexuality controlling most things that girls do. It has to be controlled, and they shouldn't have the right to just be. These are, of course, notions that we must combat. This applies at international level. This applies at EU level, and this applies in Sweden. In the government, I am responsible for children's issues, gender equality issues and social services. When it comes to legislation on child marriage, the Minister of Justice is responsible in the government. But, of course, we're working together. I have already said that I think a follow-up is necessary. When it comes to social services, they're going to do with these kids like everyone else. They shall make individual assessments. They shall make assessments of protection. They're gonna follow up on placements. And they'll see to the best interests of the child when they do. I know they work to the best of their ability. There's one thing we haven't touched on here. These issues involve a great deal of violence and repression against girls, women and LGBT people and others who violate gender standards. We need to do much more at all to prevent this kind of attitudes and violence in society. We need to come back from the government when it comes to prevention in general but also for the group of new arrivals. There are several occasions during the spring to get back to it. One of these concerns the letter on gender equality policy.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-738	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me two questions: How does the Government view the Moderates' proposal regarding simplified aid assessments? What measures has the Government taken with regard to assistance assessments for the elderly? The answer to both questions is that I am awaiting a proposal from the study on the national quality plan for elderly care in 2015 ( dir. 2015:72), which has this important issue as one of its sub-missions. This is what the Government's directive says under point 5, Flexible forms of decision on care for the elderly states: Many municipalities want to be able to offer services in the care of the elderly through a processing procedure that is perceived as less complicated or controlling. The reasons for municipalities may be to reduce administrative work and to increase self-determination and participation of older people. Several municipalities apply some form of so-called simplified management or aid assessment. However, the Agency for Health Analysis survey shows that there are significant differences between municipalities' ways of working to simplify the possibilities of getting help at home as well as the flexibility and possibility of user influence offered in terms of the content and design of the services. There are also many municipalities that perceive the legal situation as uncertain and have so far refrained from applying similar working methods. The investigator shall, if deemed appropriate, make proposals that allow municipalities to decide on care and other services to the elderly in a simpler and more flexible way than today. One condition is that legal certainty for the individual should not be impaired. ..................................................... The investigator shall present his proposals by 31 March 2017. It seems that the Moderates and the government on this issue share a common view of the need for change.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-744	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We will have several interpellation debates in the late afternoon about the important care of the elderly and the right of the individual to have his or her needs met. In this case, it is a matter of avoiding unnecessary hassle. I have written this question because many older people feel that it is very offensive. It is difficult to understand the bureaucracy. You're not used to turning your life inside out, and the process takes a very long time. Even if you may only need home help, it must be this process. It also takes a lot of resources from administrators and social services, and it costs money. Instead, it is money that could be spent on improving the quality of care for the elderly. The Alliance government carried out major freedom of choice reforms. They have meant greater influence and power for the individual to decide who should perform the care that we jointly fund but also what the care should contain. Self-power has meant that more demands can also be made. It's about what you want and need. It is about whoever carries out the care and care. I often think that freedom of choice is politically handled as putting the activities of the public sector against private actors. I think that is unfortunate, because for most of us freedom of choice actually means that we have the right to decide for ourselves. It is precisely the concept of empowerment that I think it is extremely important to focus on. Every human being is, as you know, unique. People have different needs and want their lives in different ways. I look with concern at how the S-MP government is still trying to see our older residents as mere group creatures. That's the difference in politics too, isn't it? But it is also about the art of balancing the individual's needs and empowerment in relation to the fact that the group older and elderly care should be like a collective. It is a difficult balance, but the most important thing is to always start from the individual's need for care. The Government decided in 2014 to close the Elderly Investigation. Now I know that the Minister spoke in his reply about a quality inquiry. Proposals must be presented by 31 March 2017. It's a long way till then. Many people who do not live in a municipality where you have a simplified aid assessment for simpler forms of care and care then have to mess with the bureaucracy, and you have to spend a lot of resources from the municipality on the aid assessment. I would, of course, like this to go much faster, because it is here and now that it is necessary. In addition, people who are now entering the golden age and who need home help, for example, are people who are generally used to it going fast, and they want to decide for themselves what it should look like. I wonder, why didn't the Elder investigation continue? I guess it was about halfway there. We would have been able to gain time by hopefully finding simplified methods for investigating the needs of those who want home help, for example.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-752	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the discussion, Lotta Finstorp! I fully agree with the need for simplified aid assessments and less bureaucracy. That's why the investigation is looking at this. It will also come up with a partial report, and in the future we will see exactly what it contains. However, there are possibilities for the investigation to proceed more quickly with certain issues. As far as simplified aid assessments are concerned, I think it is desirable, as I said, to have as little hassle and bureaucracy as possible and as much focus on the elderly as possible. I fully agree with that. I now make an elderly journey through Sweden and try to systematically visit places that are examples of either a geographical location, size, focus on new technology and so on. It can be about sparsely populated areas, big cities, different population compositions and whatever it may be. Then I have come across some examples that you do not want this simplification, because you think you miss seeing the older one. There is therefore experience of this. I'm keen to have a smooth system, and I'm glad the investigation has the opportunity to look at this. As I said, I would like to contribute to reducing red tape and to putting resources on the needs of older people, and we have made the greatest historical effort to staff in care for the elderly, precisely so that there is time and opportunity to see the individual women and men as individuals and to be able to support them within the care of the elderly according to their needs. This is a reform where the money has been paid out quite quickly, because we see great needs. I was the other day on an evening shift in a retirement home where this money had been spent on much better scheduling and much better support for the elderly during the days. The staff can now also work full time. Today, we have also taken a decision in the government to have staff around the clock that can support the elderly without delay if necessary. It is a very long-awaited decision by relatives, by the elderly themselves and by staff. It is an issue that has been long drawn and which we have now solved, and it will make the elderly feel safe even at night. For me, it is important to see older people as individuals and to always have gender equality and equality aspects in the work. One thing I really want to get away from when it comes to the rights of older people when assessing aid and in other ways is that it is often relatives who are trained and assertive, or that you yourself are, who end up having their rights met. We have seen this, among other things, in an audit in SVT, and that should not be the case. There should be equality and equality. It should not be that men have easier than women to get care for the elderly, and one should not be dependent on resourceful relatives. However, I believe that the efforts that we have already made and the issue that we are going to discuss a little later, support for housing for the elderly, together will make it possible to see the elderly in a very good way.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-761	Madam President, I would like My feeling is that we have a consensus on this issue. We also see the demographic challenges: it will not be possible to carry out in-depth investigations of every elderly person who is in need and who is applying for, for example, home care. I believe that the future of society means finding simpler ways. What worries me a little is that it looks so different in the municipalities and that it is completely dependent on where you live where you get your needs met. It is just as the Minister brings up. If you yourself are strong and eloquent in both speech and writing, or have relatives who are, it tends to give you the aid you have applied for, while perhaps a person who does not have those resources can instead be rejected. I know that SKL is constantly working to find good assessments and instruments so that it can be as equal as possible. I amused myself looking at various municipal websites with simplified aid applications. This is based on the fact that all older people have computer experience and so on. But they haven't. Then the question of application forms is also available in paper format so that you can pick up from the municipality. As I said, many municipalities have this on their websites, and I think it was Solna that I brought here. It was very positive to see: and when a person considers that he/she needs these efforts, he/she fills out a form that is then sent to the municipality. Within three working days, the city will contact the person concerned... with simplified aid assessment, the person in need will have more influence over his or her own situation. We know that each person knows best his or her needs and knows what help he or she feels he or she needs. ..................................................... That's incredibly positive. I have done many investigations, but not precisely when it comes to the assessment of assistance for the elderly, but child care investigations. If a person is going into a particular accommodation, I perceive that there is a need for a much deeper analysis and an investigation that is happy to take some time so that it is really precisely tailored for that person. If you need a completely different kind of help at home, it should be very easy to do so by simplified assessment. What I don't understand is why not every municipality has done this. It's a bit in the border area from the legislation, so that's probably why some haven't done it, but it's going to be very strange. This area is almost the only one I can think of where you have such different guidelines in the municipalities for how to deal with certain issues. As far as concerns about the rule of law are concerned, I think that what the Minister is raising is important. It must not be that those who are resourceful in words and speeches or have resourceful relatives can influence the outcome of the application. I think it is appalling, and it is an important aspect that the Minister raises. I also hope that it will not be so controlled that one cannot open up in this way when the National Board of Health and Welfare has come up with its regulations. Does the Minister have any comment on that?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-769	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Lotta Finstorp – we are committed to this. That is an important issue. The government believes that there is a need both to increase flexibility in decisions of this kind and to reduce red tape in favour of caring for the elderly in different ways. That is why we have added this mission to the investigation to enable them to provide a basis for this, and I see that as it is. It is not only during this trip that I usually visit retirement homes, but when I am travelling in Sweden it is based on a willingness to systematically visit stations that represent both opportunities and challenges that we have in Sweden today. It becomes increasingly clear that the elderly today and those who are getting older are a very heterogeneous group in many different ways. Therefore, it is important to have both aid assessments and care that really starts from the individual and that there are also ways of finding out that it has actually ensured that this is what the elderly wants. It is very important to understand these issues, both now and in the future. I see this as a whole. It is about efforts in terms of staff. It is an important area, and it is important that it is attractive and interesting to work here, and I see, for example, that support for staffing facilitates scheduling and planning and that it becomes more stable for the elderly and not least for those working in the care of the elderly. During my journey there has been one issue that has bothered me most, namely, stories about how working hours work for those who are going to work in the care of the elderly. It is a joint responsibility to continue working on the issues. Let me come back to the issue of aid assessments. All I've said is why the questions are included in the investigation. In the meantime, I conduct conversations with different actors, and I visit different locations to see how they have solved the problems. The next stop on the journey is Överkalix, which represents a part of Sweden that needs to solve these problems just like everyone else.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-775	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a good debate! When I read about simplified aid assessment, I saw that there are sites on the internet where it is possible to get help with what to say in order to get a higher percentage of approval. It doesn't feel all right. The assessment should be easy to perform and based on my needs. It shouldn't be tactics that should be behind it. My hope is, as the Minister said, that since the investigation will not be presented until 2017, that parts of the investigation can be presented earlier. I would really like simplified assessment to be one such issue in the investigation that can be put forward earlier. There are objections to the introduction of simplified aid assessment as there may be a risk of over-exploitation of publicly funded operations. That is what the critics mention. Is there any such risk at all? How many people would like the help of outsiders with showering and dressing if there is no need? I find it difficult to see such a risk. However, the assessment shall be consistent. With simplification, all persons can have the same assessment. That's the most important thing. The experience of the municipalities that have applied the simplified aid process is positive, especially on the part of users.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-780	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the debate. These are really pressing issues. The people I have met who have the task of making the assessments, I think are very ambitious and interested in really serving the older clients with what they need. They are sensitive to taking account of equality and equality. Of course, it is important to have a work situation that enables you to do this. Moreover, the law states that the needs of the elderly are to be taken into account. Everyone should receive care based on their own needs, as easily and smoothly as possible where resources are used properly. We will get back to you on the matter.
i-GMKYsCzJLQCJ2ozPAHmHzs	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng and Lotta Finstorp, for the interpellations! Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me what measures I have taken to meet the municipalities' needs for special housing arrangements for the elderly. Lotta Finstorp has asked me what I do to ensure that all older people who need a place in special housing actually get a place and what I do to get the municipalities to sharpen themselves in terms of places in special housing. Older people's policies should create the conditions for equality, participation and security and stimulate older women and men to live an active and good life after the end of working life. In order to do so, access to suitable housing for the elderly is an important issue. In order to increase the number of homes for the elderly, the Government has announced in the 2016 budget bill that a new investment aid will be introduced. The support will stimulate the reconstruction and new construction of special housing and rental housing in the ordinary housing market aimed at people over 65 years of age. Support shall also be provided to promote the retention of elderly people through minor adaptations of common spaces in the existing housing stock. The investment support amounts to SEK 150 million in 2016. The support is then expected to be gradually extended to SEK 300 million in 2017 and then to be permanentized at SEK 400 million from 2018. The proposal for a new investment aid is currently being prepared at the Ministry of Social Affairs. In addition, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to develop proposals for a national quality plan for elderly care. The aim is to ensure the development of good quality in future care for the elderly through long-term efforts in strategically important areas. The investigator will analyse, among other things, whether there is a need for a new form of housing where older people who do not need comprehensive care around the clock have access to security and social community. In this context, the investigator will consider whether municipalities should be given increased opportunities to provide support to older people who are not deemed to need special accommodation with 24-hour care or whether the concept of housing in the Social Services Act should be developed. The investigator shall present his proposals by 31 March 2017. The Government has also allocated SEK 1 billion in 2015 and estimates to allocate SEK 2 billion per year in 2016 – 2018 to increase staffing in elderly care. The right staffing is an important factor in creating greater security and quality for the individual in care for the elderly. It also allows the staff to spend more time with the individual and increases the opportunities for the staff to contribute to the joint development of the business. The proper training and experience of staff is another important factor affecting the quality of care for the elderly. The Government therefore allocates SEK 200 million in 2016 to a knowledge initiative aimed at activities in the field of elderly care and disability. Finally, I would like to say that care for the elderly is and has been a priority since I took office. For me as Minister for the Elderly, it is important that every elderly woman and man should be able to age in security and have access to good care.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-792	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The background to my raising the issue is very urgent. I am concerned that we are on the wrong track with regard to particular accommodations. I would therefore like to comment on the Government's response. I don't mind the answer. Much was informative. This is about support for those who remain at home with home help. The government has presented a new proposal today for staffing, such as better staffing of dementia homes. That is a very good proposal. This also applies to education and experience. But I didn't ask questions about these things. My questions are about the special accommodations. The background is that it has been shown in Boverket's report, as shown by my interpellation, that the number of places in special housing is falling sharply. It's a strong trend, which makes me worried. I know that we need all these forms of accommodation, including especially housing. Historically, there have been many retirement homes in Sweden during the 20th century until the 1990s and into the 2000s. Perhaps they were too many, because everything suggests that it is good to be active for as long as possible. From the 1990s, and still today, the number of places in special accommodations around our country decreased. There has been a long-term trend. Instead, this has been compensated by a massive expansion of home service. This is often a good thing, but there is also a clear limit when quality can no longer be maintained. It can be counterproductive even in terms of cost if the elderly is severely reduced. Then there will be many home help hours and a lot of driving, and it will be more expensive for everyone. In many municipalities, the number of places in special housing has been reduced so much that it is difficult to get in and get full day care on these. This means that relatives have to take a very large responsibility that they sometimes can't handle. In his statistics Boverket is now sending clear signals that this development is going in the wrong direction and that it is also moving quickly. I would therefore like to ask the Government if she has taken note of the figures from the Boverket which I have mentioned and if this leads the Minister to take any initiative to improve the situation that has arisen. I think it is important to sue in the stream because we know that the need is with a number of people around Sweden and that it looks very different in the municipalities. Some municipalities pass with praise. But there are also municipalities where it is really bad, where it even occurs that older people who would need full day care do not get it. That is why this issue is important.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-801	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has said very wisely. I intend to focus more on the content of care itself. It is important that older people feel secure in their housing and life. The needs and wishes of the individual should be guiding, just as we have talked about aid assessments and such things. Care for the elderly shall be characterised by individual adaptation, responsiveness and professionality. It's great honorary words when it comes to elderly care and social security in general. After all, most, the majority, of those living in a particular dwelling, are satisfied. It's a little bit that you ask, you get answers, but that's the way it is. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's user surveys show that many people are very satisfied with their care and housing and also with what the municipalities do. But there are quality deficiencies. That makes me very concerned now that it will be legislated, which was news that came today. Those who really know the needs of their inhabitants and should put staffing on the basis of it are the municipalities. The fact that this cannot be done without legislation being required is, in my view, very remarkable. It is not a criticism of the legislation, but it is extremely strange that the municipalities cannot see for themselves where the need is greatest. When municipal self-government is eliminated as in this case, it is also more difficult for the inhabitants to hold their municipal politicians to account. Now the legislature, that is to say, this Assembly, has made sure that there is a law that makes you have a certain staffing. What I can be concerned about and one question I have for the Minister is this: is there a risk that the municipalities will now go to the minimum level, on the basis of the regulation, rather than actually looking at the needs of the particular housing or dementia housing? That's one of my questions. Often the debate on the quality of care for the elderly comes to the fore in numerical terms, i.e. in how many people work, in staffing. The need for places, which we see is excruciatingly great, we just never come to. We're just talking about how many hands should be in the care. The dignity of individual treatment and well-cooked, healthy and good food, such things as can be included in the concept of quality, are being obscured. SVT's review of care for the elderly, as the Minister mentioned, shows that many fragile elderly people who want to come to special housing are being rejected. It's like a needle's eye you have to get through in order to be able to get from your regular accommodation to a special accommodation. There was an example where a person who could not even use his security alarm would still live in the home for as long as possible. No, stop! This can't happen. Then we have not had the individual perspective that we have been talking about in this debate either. You have to look at the needs of the individual. At the same time, there is a shortage of places. I find that surprising, because it is not rocket science to know how to plan for the retirement homes. It is quite easy to know between your thumb and index finger how many will need. That is my question: how can it be like this? Why is it lacking in the number of places?
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-813	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp and Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, for the posts! That's a lot of questions, and they're connected. I like the tone of the debate. I think it leads forward and is constructive. I would just like to remind you that during the alliance government, a fifth of the places in retirement homes actually disappeared. It was also almost 100 000 women in particular who fell significantly in working hours or even left the labour force because they did not trust elderly care. I therefore think it is important to focus on all the issues we have raised at the same time, because they are interrelated. As far as retirement homes are concerned, the government has announced in the budget that we have investment aid for retirement homes that is flexible. We are now preparing how it will be done. It can be used for retirement homes, for so-called mid-forms and for adaptation to remain. It should be based on the needs of the elderly. These incentives exist and are being stepped up during the term of office – first 150, then 300 and then 400 million a year. I think this is an important addition to get the construction going, which is really needed. I agree, and that is why we are doing this. I have already spoken about the staffing effort. 2 billion a year for staffing is an historic investment. When I went to a dementia home the other day, I noticed that this really makes a difference. You can reschedule, and you can devote more time to the needs of the elderly and to human conversation that you need in these sometimes rather difficult situations. I am, of course, pleased with today's government decision. I just want to make it clear that what has been decided on is a regulation clarifying the Social Services Act. That regulation says that there will be staff around the clock who can arrive without delay when necessary, i.e. around the clock. It is not regulations that say there should be three people here or two people there. It is not very detailed, and it is precisely because there are different needs in the elderly and, for example, in different accommodations. It is up to the municipalities to make sure this works. Then Ivo will review as before. However, as you know, there are a number of reviews that Ivo has carried out where the measure has not been met. That is not how we want it, and that is why we have now taken this decision. I also hope that the funds for skills development, EUR 200 million this year, will be important. These include efforts in relation to dementia. In the case of retirement homes, we therefore have support. That's a big question. I'll follow it. That's why it's in the quality investigation. It is certainly both a question of the present and of the future and a question of quality. I think we have reason to get back to it. But I think this is a good start for myself, where there is also flexibility to use investment aid.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-823	Madam President, I would like I listen to the Government, but unfortunately I do not hear anything that would in any decisive way make the situation better. I'd like a clearer answer. These issues are important if we mean something about how we want to improve the care of our old people. Then we need to make a change in some municipalities– I say not all municipalities, but in many municipalities. It's definitely not just about money. It is a question of knowledge, as has come to light, but it is also an indication of which measures are best for the individual pensioner. I mentioned what has been in the 20th century, especially since the 90s. It has been both bourgeois and social democratic governments. There has not really been any difference, but it has always been lost in special accommodations for 20 to 25 years. But, to say something positive about the former alliance government, there have been various incentives to get to shelters, senior housing and so on. It slowed this to some extent, at least at the end. But that is not what is important here; it is the investment aid that the current government has come up with. 150 million sounds very much, but it is very little if you see it in Sweden format. Even if it is 400 million in a few years' time, it is tiny and will not have a decisive impact on whether or not the municipalities are going to build. Having said that, we must also put forward those municipalities that have actually done something about these issues in a good way, as positive examples. That's why I'm very happy that the Government is going around Sweden. I've been doing it for a few years, too. In some municipalities you get very happy, but in other municipalities it is almost so that you can cry. There are retirement homes and special accommodations that serve as examples for all municipalities, where you both get exemplary care and have a food standard that is good. You already feel when you open the door and go in that it is a good accommodation. It is therefore important that the good examples should be allowed to spread to more places and that more people have the opportunity to have real security, as well as that the latest findings in the research should come out better, so that they can be implemented in healthcare. I would therefore like to end this speech by asking the Government to take this matter with her to the Ministry and try to get an inquiry into particular accommodations too, which could bring improvements. Above all, I hope that she can discuss with SKL, who has a crucial role, how to move forward in a positive way.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-831	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commenting on what the Minister said in his previous speech, that it was during the time of the alliance government that a lot of places were laid down in the care of the elderly. It's every municipality that decides how to do it. It's not a government issue. There, both the Minister's party colleagues and our own party colleagues in the municipalities have been involved in laying down seats. We all know that there have been trends in care for the elderly. I think that's very unfortunate. It has been a trend that everyone should stay at home. Then the old retirement homes, which were then wrong in time, were removed. Now it's starting to roll back again. Safe living is an excellent form of accommodation before you need to get to a special accommodation. Municipal self-government means that it is the municipalities that decide whether to build or close down. Now we see that there are no accommodations. Queues have increased by 20 percent in recent years. It was a mistake to close down retirement homes and places. It's catching up with us now. They said it was going to be a big boom when all the 30s and 40s retired. That's not exactly what happened. It's flattened out. But we see that we have it in front of us. It goes without saying that more places are needed. I would like to mention precisely the fact that there are trends. Now I feel like I'm really old, but as chairman of both the municipal board and the county council board I have experienced this. It's the same in the world of treatment – should you be treated at home, or should you go to a home? That's exactly how it's been in the care of the elderly, too. Those who have suffered from trend thinking are our elders. If you are to think individually, we must have different accommodations for different needs during different stages of life. There must not be a new trend where everyone is going back into old-age homes. There must be different options. When making regulations and legislation, it is important not to regulate detail, because it will never be possible to balance it in relation to, for example, the individual's need for housing. We talk a lot about staffing. Then it is interesting to look at the reports that exist. Is there support for higher staffing leading to higher quality? And what does it do with more hands in healthcare when the places are missing and queues have increased by 20 percent in recent years? The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has produced a report on the costs, quality and staffing of special accommodations for the elderly, as the Minister has probably seen. This study is based on current statistics from the National Board of Health and Welfare, SCB and SKL. There you can see a slight positive correlation between increased staffing, more staff-tight and user-experienced quality, but the analysis shows that quality is determined by a variety of other factors as well. For example, special accommodations with lower staff turnover, i.e. a higher degree of continuity among employees, show better quality in the surveys that users have to respond to. So my question is: What does it help? It's good to have more hands in the care, but if the places don't exist it won't help.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-840	Madam President, I would like The lack of places in retirement homes is evident and there have been a lot of reviews of this in the media. That is why we have investment aid, which is part of stimulating construction in this important area. The whole debate is about us wanting to take responsibility for elderly care in different ways. If we see that there is a big problem – which it does if many older people perceive that they are being caught at home because there is no other option – at least I think that politics should have an opinion and try to change this. That is why we have investment support, although care for the elderly, including housing, is a municipal responsibility. The investment aid we have is flexible. It should be possible to support both retirement homes, intermediate forms and the adaptation of housing. I also fully agree that staffing in care for the elderly is an important issue. It solves some of the other quality issues: if there are several people who can come in and work in a way that you perceive as meaningful, if you have the opportunity to participate in competence development, if you can work full time and think that the organisation of working time is meaningful, you probably also stay longer, and continuity becomes better. There will be fewer people who meet the elderly, and you know your colleagues, your workplace and so on. That is why staffing is an important issue. This is, as I said, a historic effort on staffing, and I think it is important. Then it doesn't solve everything. None of what we're talking about solves all the problems. For example, it turns out that women feel more lonely in retirement homes than if they remain at home. We have to work on all these issues at the same time. I'm taking on this task. The study on quality that we have established also looks at the question of older housing in a broader perspective regarding current and future needs and how the role distribution should look like. It is the responsibility of municipalities to plan for this and to ensure that construction takes place. But I think it is a responsibility for politics to ensure that the elderly really get good care and care. Therefore, the various efforts that the government has made to see in a whole. With regard to the regulation on which we decided today, I would like to stress again that it will ensure that there are staff around the clock who can arrive without delay, but there are no numerical provisions.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-847	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking you for your reply and, not least, for the fact that the Government thinks that this is an important issue that we have raised. She has explained what is going on and that has been decided today in relation to dementia housing. I like it very much, because we have had to improve the quality of this area for a long time. But we also need to improve the quality of special accommodation. And I want us to increase the degree of priority on this. I think I also know that we need all the options. Homework is great, but it's not a substitute anyway. We see that there are people who get hurt when they are forced to take home service when there are no other alternatives. To go back to my basic question, Boverket shows that it is 40 – 50 percent of the municipalities that will show a clear flaw here. It is then ordinary pensioners in a vulnerable situation that will be affected and will not receive their care. It is very important that we somehow solve this problem, and then we need a number of alternatives. I am not going to prolong this debate. I am very pleased that we have had this debate with the Government. I think it is important that we get the questions raised in general but also that the state, together with SKL, will bring about a change here.
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-851	Madam President, I would like I want to reconnect with this with trends. I think it is important for the Minister in the country to meet with party colleagues from different parties and discuss in order to find continuity based on the demographic challenges. We see that many live at home, but when the individual who wants to move to a place of residence and receives a rejection of his or her application for assistance or has to stand in line for months because places are missing, then it is no longer a voluntary choice to stay at home. I would also like to come back to the report I was talking about. The concept of high quality is, in many respects, also an organisational issue. It does not help to have on paper a certain number of hands or heads, but it is a matter of staffing where the need is greatest and even during the day is greatest. And I am not sure that it is the politicians who know best how it should be, but it is generally known in the field of activity. Continuity of staff is also an important factor. How does the Minister see that a large number of people from the employment phase will now switch to so-called extra services, especially in the care of the elderly, where they are to be received and introduced by an already under pressure staff? They need guidance. Many, for example, have never worked with older people, and I know that Kommunal has criticised it. It gives more hands in the care. But does it provide better quality and continuity? That's the question. Then I think it is important for municipalities to have guarantees of dignity. It should be in every municipality. They shall be linked to sanctions for the benefit of the individual, for example in the form of a reduction in the fee, if the possibility of showering and the possibility of outdoor stay and walking as stated in the contract between the health care provider and the individual is not provided. Thank you for a good debate so far!
i-a31a5e843344e1f3-857	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank both Members of Parliament for these questions and for a serious and interesting discussion. We have touched on most of the issues you raise. Of course, demographic development is also known to me. A great joint commitment that we have is to ensure that the new people who come to Sweden get jobs, preferably in the care of the elderly and preferably men, regardless of their origin, together with women in this part of the labour market, but that they get into jobs at all so that we have funding for future commitments in the case of the elderly. As I have said a number of times, staffing issues are very important here. But we also need to work with the quality of our care for the elderly. If we mean seriously that care for the elderly should be based on their needs, regardless of gender and background, we must work with everything at once. I am pleased that we have taken the decision today on the availability of staff around the clock. I'm glad we've decided on the manning. I'm glad we've made a decision on competence development. I am also pleased about the investment aid, which we have talked about here, and other efforts that make people feel like working in this sector. Of course, it should be people who are suitable for it but who see a type of work that is very rewarding. It is therefore important from the perspective of the elderly, relatives and staff to constantly strengthen these parts.
