i-738d63fff517557b-11	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Christina Raise Larsen, for being so flexible about dates to receive the answer! Christina Höj Larsen has asked the EU and Trade Minister how Libya can guarantee the right of asylum and make human rights available in the circumstances described in Amnesty's report Libya is full of creativity. Christina Höj Larsen has also asked who the EU should negotiate with in Libya. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. At present, there is no question of a migration agreement similar to the EU – Turkey model being concluded between the EU and Libya. The report referred to by Christina Höj Larsen also highlights the difficult situation in Libya, which continues to require considerable attention and strategic commitment on the part of the EU. In the regular Libya discussions in the Foreign Affairs Council, I stress, among other things, the importance of women's participation in the political process and that the EU's engagement in Libya must be long-term, sustainable and closely coordinated with relevant actors, not least the UN and the Libyan government of assembly. The UN estimates that there are over 260 000 migrants in Libya. Of these, there are between 4 000 and 5 000 in Libyan detention centres. The vulnerability of the Libyan state hampers the supervision of these centres, and the European Commission estimates that many of the detainees may suffer from a lack of protection, food and medical care. The complex political and security situation in the country has limited international efforts to contribute to strengthening the protection of migrants in Libya. Therefore, the EU's comprehensive support to the Libyan government of assembly is all the more important to bring stability to the country. The Libyan government of assembly is the result of the comprehensive UN-led dialogue process that has been going on in Libya for almost two years. Since 30 March, parts of the government have established themselves in the capital Tripoli and have begun to carry out their duties through the ministries. The coalition government has broad support from the international community, not least from the EU.
i-738d63fff517557b-16	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mrs Wallström, for your reply and for the debate. I am, of course, very pleased to hear that Foreign Minister Wallström does not believe that an agreement between the EU and Libya is up to date. Yet the answer raises some questions, because there is a reason why we are here today. It is not that I have just seized the idea of an agreement with Libya out of thin air. EU Commissioner Timmermans said at the beginning of June that agreements similar to those between the EU and Turkey should be concluded with a number of other countries – including Libya. On the same day or the following day, Sunday 5 June, EU Minister Ann Linde was interviewed in Agenda on Timmerman's statement. On the question of whether the EU should sign a migration agreement specifically with Libya, Ann Linde answered straight and clear yes. She repeatedly said that she felt that such an agreement was absolutely necessary. On the question of whether, after all, she does not hesitate because Libya is an unstable country with internal strife and extensive documented violations of human rights, she clearly said no. She didn't hesitate. Once again, she referred to the need for such an agreement. We don't have a choice, said Ann Linde. The reasoning of the EU Minister seems to be based on two elements: that it is necessary to stop the terrible drownings in the Mediterranean and that the majority of those coming through Libya are economic migrants. The last is Ann Linde's choice of words. I would like us to look at these two statements. When the EU-Turkey agreement was concluded, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven repeatedly stressed the need for such an agreement to stop death on the Mediterranean. Unfortunately, after the agreement has been under way for almost six months, we see that the number of known drownings already exceeds last year's victims. The figure has already passed 3,000 deaths, and the year is by no means over yet. If the reason for concluding an agreement with Turkey really is to reduce death on the Mediterranean, we have really failed. The trip across the sea from Libya leads to even more dead. People's reasons for fleeing have not changed. Europe has only blocked another way of seeking asylum in the EU. This has been done by allowing Turkey – which violates freedom of expression and press, persecutes Kurds and shoots refugees who want to cross the border – to act as a hired border guard for the EU. Let us look at the second claim made by EU minister Ann Linde: Those who try to cross the sea from Libya are economic migrants. That's a pretty amazing statement. We see that an increasing proportion of those registered in Italy since the closure of the road from Turkey are from the dictatorship of Eritrea. It is the second largest group, and it is a group that is even more forced to come this way after the road via Turkey was closed. We also know that half of the 37,500 refugees registered by the UNHCR in Libya are from Syria. It is people who, in their desperate need to get to safety in Europe, have now sought their way through the route to Libya. Although I am pleased with the response we are receiving from Mrs Wallström here today, I wonder about the difference in response between these two ministers. Does the government agree with the view expressed by Ann Linde in Agenda – that the EU has no choice but to sign a migration agreement with Libya in due course? Or should Mrs Wallström's answer here today be seen as a change of opinion by the government on this issue?
i-738d63fff517557b-24	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I'll say something about the bigger picture. Libya is still plagued by the effects of the severe civil war in recent years. The widespread lawlessness that has been exploited ruthlessly by criminal gangs and human trafficking networks. At the moment, the UN reports that approximately a quarter of a million migrants are in transit in Libya. We know from reports that there is widespread sexual abuse, abuse and blackmail of migrants brought to Libya with the promise that they will be able to get to Europe from there. Women and children are particularly vulnerable; they become commodities in the billion-dollar industry that human trafficking has become. I believe that we both feel strongly about the vulnerable refugees who are in Libya. It is in this particular situation that it is so important that the outside world and we support the Libyan unity government that was formed in March of this year so that the protection of migrants in Libya can be strengthened. When I have discussed the EU's operation, Navfor MED, with European Foreign Affairs colleagues in the Foreign Affairs Council, we have achieved, among other things, that the training of the Libyan Coast Guard should also include training in international law including human rights and gender issues. That is how we can best and step by step try to improve the situation of migrants and refugees in Libya. As I said before in my reply, there are currently no discussions in the EU on any refugee agreement with Libya. The situation is unstable, and preparatory discussions are currently continuing on the reopening of some of the major EU countries' embassies in Tripoli. That's how far you've come. The UNHCR has also informed that they are having difficulty operating in Libya as a result of the security situation. During the summer, the number of refugees who have fled the Central Mediterranean route has increased slightly, although it is not an alarming statistical increase for 2016. For the government, it is essential that we safeguard solidarity, greater joint responsibility and better coordination in EU cooperation on migration and asylum. We want long-term migration dialogues and a broad approach with the main countries of origin and transit outside the EU, including Libya. It is therefore important to protect EU and international law in all forms of cooperation with third countries on these issues. Migration is only a minor part of the broad commitment to bringing peace to Libya. All cooperation depends on the Libyan unity government being able to exercise its mandate, that it can rule. Sweden consistently argues that any proposals for EU action must be carefully analysed, based on Libya's needs and wishes and coordinated not least with the UN in order not to disrupt this sensitive process. There we are today.
i-738d63fff517557b-31	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again to Mrs Wallström for your answer. I am very pleased to hear this very insightful description of the situation in Libya, which is of course serious and which must be monitored very closely. That is why I have to say that I do not get what Mrs Wallström says to be in line with the inconclusive response given by Ann Linde in Agenda repeatedly and then later in the Saturday interview. This is not the case, but I hope, believe and trust that Minister Wallström will have to be a clear voice also in relation to the EU Minister, Ann Linde, in this regard. I think it was distressing and serious news that was given in a rather sloppy way. There is a reason why there are so many detention and detention camps in Libya. Europe has a long and rather unpleasant tradition of paying dictatorships to keep people away. In the past, it was Italy that paid Gaddafi for this. That is one of the reasons why such an infrastructure exists in Libya. The EU is now continuing to conclude agreements with Mr Erdo中an's Turkey. The agreement with Turkey is undoubtedly an unpleasant example in many ways. It is clear that Turkey is using the agreement to obtain freedom of expression and freedom of the press and to increase the persecution of the Kurdish minority. In addition, several human rights organisations report horrendous abuses of people on the run who want to cross the border between Syria and Turkey, where killings by Turkish border soldiers are among the worst. It is in the light of this, if agreements can be concluded between the European Union and a country that is moving more and more quickly into a dictatorship that disregards the rules of the refugee convention, which I am concerned about what happens next. There is another and equally serious aspect to this. Both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I know that Europe does not have a large reception of refugees by global standards. The question is what happens to other countries' views of the Refugee Convention when the EU acts in this way. Why should the world's really large refugee-receiving countries such as Pakistan, Iran, Chad, Uganda, Kenya and so on want to keep their borders open when the EU in turn pays others to act as border guards? It is a very sensitive refugee convention that is at stake. I think it would be interesting to hear how Foreign Minister Wallström views this issue. In his reply, Foreign Minister Wallström also writes that this is not the case at present – and I am pleased, as I said. In the light of the agreement signed with Turkey, when and under what circumstances might it be possible to conclude agreements? What does that mean, and what other models is the government open to?
i-738d63fff517557b-36	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that when it comes to people dying in Libyan waters, it is essentially because the Libyan Coast Guard currently has a limited capacity to save lives. The needs are great, and then it is no alternative not to cooperate with the Libyan authorities. I think it might be an idea to say something about what the European Union has actually contributed and about the Eunavfor MED operation that began last June. So far, the lives of more than 21 000 people have been saved, helping to save thousands more people by other players in the Mediterranean. The operation has also arrested about eighty smugglers and participated in more arrests. At our Foreign Affairs Council in June, the mandate was extended to include training of the Libyan Coast Guard and the Marines and maintaining the UN arms embargo on the high seas. I think this is an important story to convey. We cannot fully guarantee how a country's authorities carry out their tasks, but we see that the needs for education are great, and we believe that it is better to try to help save lives and increase knowledge of human rights than to stand by passively. Therefore, we cannot refuse to cooperate with the Libyan authorities, but we do so in the way I have described. We also support Libya bilaterally from the Swedish side. During this year, we have contributed approximately SEK 45 million to humanitarian operations in Libya, SEK 30 million to UNICEF, UNHCR and the Red Cross and SEK 15 million that have been channelled through the UN Emergency Fund. Then comes the unallocated and flexible core support that Sweden also provides to the UN humanitarian agencies, in particular the World Food Programme and UNHCR. Last year, Sweden was the seventh largest bilateral donor to Libya. I think we need to rethink the timeline here. I also believe that the comments that have been made are about one day when it is thought that Libya could be ready to conclude some sort of agreement, when they have control over their territory, when there is a government and when they can guarantee that it is done in a way that also respects human rights. The most important thing now is to ensure that the Libyan Government can gain control. There are no such negotiations or discussions at all today. They're not ready for that.
i-738d63fff517557b-42	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Wallström for her reply and the debate. I have to say that, with regard to the comments made by Ann Linde, she was clearly pressurised about whether it is really possible to do this in the current situation, and she replied yes repeatedly. She also claimed that people are being mistreated in many countries of the world and so on. It was incredibly sloppy. But I hope, believe and support Mrs Wallström's line on this issue and hope that she is a clear voice in the government in this regard. I have to say that the reason people are drowning right now in the Mediterranean Sea off the Libyan coast is not that the coastguard is not good enough. Of course, a good coastguard is good, but one important reason why people are drowning is that they have nowhere else to go if they want to go to safety in Europe. The Secretary of State and I both know that. The EU has closed an important road from Turkey. As the number of people coming from Eritrea via Libya now increases, the link must be seen. A government that says that we must stop drowning in the Mediterranean must see that what was perhaps thought to be a solution, namely an agreement with Turkey, was not. People keep drowning. There are still no legal ways. The wars are not over. It won't help pay border guards to keep people away. Then we can have enough coastguards. This is not a long-term solution. I expect, and believe, that on the list of a feminist government other things are ahead, before you pay dictatorships for something like that.
i-738d63fff517557b-46	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Christina Höj Larsen, for this important debate! This government, if any, has shown at first that we have a generous and correct asylum policy. We have received more than any OECD country has ever done. We have also insisted, as few others have, that more legal ways need to be opened up. We have insisted on solidarity between the EU countries and internationally. We have pushed this issue in all international fora and will continue to do so. I do not think we can be accused of not having also stood up for democracy and human rights in that debate. It's a little more complex than that. Even if we were to open up legal ways, even if we were to take all the measures that I have already stated, there are criminal gangs that exploit people, particularly poor, vulnerable and vulnerable people. You must also dare to see that. This is a big business. Criminal activity is taking place, not least in Libya, with terrible exploitation of people in need. We have to deal with that. We must also make this kind of effort, for example, to help the coastguards to carry out their duties and save human lives. I think that we can also be proud of the efforts that have been made, at least through Eunavfor MED.
i-738d63fff517557b-50	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if I will act to stop Nord Stream 2 and how I feel about allowing Russian Gazprom access to Slite Port. I have earlier this summer presented the government's view of Nord Stream 2 in my answer to Maria Weimer's interpellation 2015/ 16:699, and to her question 2015/ 16:1429. The government has not changed its mind about the project since then. The government is working with other Member States and with the Commission to ensure that EU law is respected and that the objectives of the Energy Union are respected. Here the Commission's assessments play a very important role. We also expect all EU Member States to take joint responsibility to ensure that the EU's legal, security and political interests are protected. The government is well aware of the project's security policy dimension, as regards the possible impact on countries such as Poland, the Baltic countries and Ukraine. The Government also has to protect Swedish security and defence policy interests. In the light of the emission reduction commitments made by all countries at the Paris climate summit, there is reason to have a discussion also on the climate and environmental aspects of the project. The Government will examine a possible permit application in accordance with our national laws and regulations and international law, in particular the Swedish Continental Sockel Act and the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea Unclo. I would like to emphasise that respect for international law is a vital interest in Swedish security policy.
i-738d63fff517557b-56	Mr President, I would like to The reason I have asked for this debate is that Russia and Putin want to build a new gas pipeline. We must then ask ourselves whether it is just business as usual, nothing strange, or whether it is a different situation today. I and the Christian Democrats think that Sweden should act and not wait for Europe, hope for luck or something like that. We must act and say that this is not the way forward. Biden, the vice president of the United States, was here to provide fire support when he said: It's a bad deal. And it really is for Europe. But it is also bad for Sweden, not least when we are going to try to become fossil-free. The Deputy Prime Minister also expressed something similar in DN today. It's a bad deal. I hope the government is now taking it to heart. An important issue that comes up is what is really most important. It has been put forward in the debate that it is the United Nations that has laid down the law of the sea and that Sweden would then in principle not be able to do anything about the gas pipeline passing through the Swedish economic zone. But there is something we call international law. We talk about this here in Parliament from time to time. International law is enshrined in the UN Charter, Article 2(3) and (4). It says that all members of the UN will resolve international disputes by peaceful means in such a way that peace, security and laws are not put at risk. Article 2(4) states that in their international relations all members shall refrain from threats and violence against the territorial and political autonomy of all other States and refrain from acting in any other way incompatible with the application of the UN Charter. Mr President, I would like to Now we come to the heart of the matter – Russia. What about Russia? Right now, as we speak, a war is taking place in eastern Ukraine. Russia has illegally annexed Crimea. Sweden has been a leader in ensuring that we have sanctions, rightful ones. It'll be very strange if we're going to help Putin. He has shown before that he can use the gas as a countermeasure by saying: If you do not lift the sanctions, I will close the gas tap. We're not gonna buy it. I read earlier from the UN Charter. It's a violation of the law of the sea. It's number one. Now the question comes up. In the media today, a senior official has confirmed that the Russian Federation will submit an application next week. The question is therefore topical. However, the question has already been addressed to the Technical Board on Gotland. If I understand correctly, they've been offered around 50 million to lend Slite Port. Of course, if we are to take security policy into account, Sweden should not allow this. Think for a moment if a Swedish company would say that they want to borrow a small piece of the port in Kaliningrad; does anyone in this House think that it would even be on the map? Njet, the answer would be. Sweden should now not hide behind the EU, but take a stand itself. What is the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Is the UN Charter Article 2.4 overruled by the law of the sea?
i-738d63fff517557b-67	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I've read Mikael Oscarsson's interpellation to the Secretary of State. I have also read the debate article today that Mikael Oscarsson has been involved in writing, and I have listened to the speech today. I wonder what the Christian Democrats want. As far as I know, no permit application has been received. We have heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs declare that EU law should be respected, that the objectives of the Energy Union should be respected. That is exactly what Mikael Oscarsson is saying today. I also understand that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has appointed a special envoy to pursue our line with our partners. What is it really, more precisely, Mikael Oscarsson and the Christian Democrats want? It seems to me that the Christian Democrats are breaking open doors. Could it be that one wants to shift focus from something else, such as internal conflicts within the bourgeois bloc, low opinion figures or something else? I am pleased that Mikael Oscarsson is so clearly stressing the importance of international law and Russia's violation of it. That is totally unacceptable, where we agree. But Sweden must of course comply with international law. That is why it makes me proud and happy that we have a government that is so clearly standing up for Sweden to comply with international law.
i-738d63fff517557b-72	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to congratulate the new colleague Åsa Eriksson on her maiden speech in this House. It was well done. Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State! These are issues that have been discussed during the summer months. It is not news that Nord Stream 2 is up for discussion, not only in Sweden but also in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. It was asked: What will? I would like to see Baltic Sea leadership coordinated with those countries that are now genuinely concerned about and concerned about the consequences of Nord Stream 2. There are a number of facts on which this can be built. First of all, we now have the EU Energy Union, which quite clearly states that we should not make ourselves dependent on a producer and a country. We're not gonna put all the eggs in one basket. I think it is a wise idea that we have the Energy Union and that the 28 Member States of the European Union are behind it. The question then has to be asked: should we give Russia further opportunities to expand in Europe by enabling Nord Stream 2? This is also a challenge, not for a single country, but for the whole of Europe, and it is in the light of it, Mr President, that I think Sweden could demonstrate leadership by declaring here and now what we think. There are a few points to make here. Firstly, Russian Gazprom, which is one of the main players behind Nord Stream, is not just any company. Gazprom is one of the instruments of President Putin's hand. It is owned more than 50 percent, more than half, by the Russian state. It is an instrument and a tool. Secondly, we are now increasingly talking about hybrid warfare here in Europe, using various means and methods – apparently even civilians – to influence and exert pressure on other countries. As we increase energy dependence from Russian suppliers, there is a great danger that, in cold winters, we want to put pressure on European countries by unscrewing and screwing the Russian gas tap. For this reason too, it would be unwise to allow Russia to supply the European market with more Russian gas. Mr President, I would like to Thirdly, it is quite clear that it is also a question of undermining Ukraine. Today, some of the Russian gas supplies to Central Europe are via Ukraine. That's what makes money. Building additional gas capacity would mean that Russia would not have to use Ukraine, but would be able to send Russian gas around Ukraine. Sweden is a country that assists Ukraine in various ways. I would like to pay tribute to the Swedish Government, which has also helped to lend money to Ukraine. It would therefore be bad to give aid and assistance to Ukraine with one hand while helping to undermine Ukraine's economic position with the other hand. Fourthly, there is now a lot of practice in the Baltic Sea. We have a defence arrangement that means that you should practice more, and I hope we will see more and larger exercises on the Baltic Sea. Then it would be unwise to have a pipeline and a construction in the waters of the Baltic Sea. Fifthly, there are also environmental reasons, which also the Minister for the Environment himself points out in his reply. Mr President, I would like to Is Nord Stream in Europe's interest? No, Nord Stream 2 is not in Europe's interest.
i-738d63fff517557b-86	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Members who have made their views known so far. I would like to start by recalling that these two parties were involved and allowed Nord Stream 1 to be drawn. This, of course, has not made it easier to deal with Nord Stream 2 with the arguments put forward here and now. Now you ask them if they are going to have any further opportunities. Maybe you shouldn't have done that in the first place. Is there room for more gas? Perhaps you would not have done so from the outset if you had made use of the same reasoning that is now being used. We need to clear up a few things. Mikael Oscarsson makes a sweeping reference to the UN Charter and the Convention on the Law of the Sea in a way that makes it difficult to understand what he means. I note that Russia has indeed violated the UN Charter. That is something I strongly and regularly point out. It is constantly on the Foreign Affairs Council's agenda, and we have decided to maintain sanctions against Russia. But neither the UN Charter nor the Convention on the Law of the Sea give Sweden the right to prevent another state from laying out a pipeline because of, for example, aggression that violates the UN Charter. So the answer to your question is: no, it is not possible to use the UN Charter as a legal basis. Mikael Oscarsson argues that Sweden should do precisely what we criticise Russia for, namely not complying with international law. That would be an irresponsible security policy line. You don't seem to have much support with your own. I saw that Attefall wrote that if you're going to say no, you have to have more than populist arguments. So far, I have not heard any such arguments. I haven't heard anything about how you mean it should happen and on what basis. This is how Sweden sees this. We have to combine our legal obligations with our political objectives. This applies to objectives that exist within the EU and are about the Energy Union, about respecting environmental, procurement and internal market rules. We are working with the Commission to ensure that it tackles these challenges. Then there is security policy. It goes without saying that although this is a seemingly commercial project, it has security policy implications. We will ensure that we have security of supply. We must also ensure that Sweden's security policy interests are protected. One might ask: What voice will we have in this larger picture? In fact, Mikael Oscarsson might be more useful to his fellow party members in Germany and in Denmark who could actually say no because the gas pipeline should be routed across their territory. Sweden must act on the basis of both the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Swedish Continental Law and international law. That is what we have to act from outside. The rest must be dealt with through political cooperation, just as we have begun. We have a coordinated Baltic Sea action. We think the same thing. We also all recognise that we need the Commission, we need cooperation and we need to act on a legal basis.
i-738d63fff517557b-98	Mr President, I would like to Let us be very clear here. In the case of Slite port, the government can instead say: Thank you for the offer that the Technical Board has received, but no thanks! Last time they borrowed not only territory in Slite port, but they borrowed it in Norrköping harbour and in Karlskrona harbour. If Sweden cannot say no, then I do not know what powers the Swedish Government has. Of course, the government can refuse and say that there is no question of Russia being allowed to borrow important territory for its use. In a crisis situation, this could at worst be used for hybrid warfare. We're not gonna buy you that. It is interesting that in the debate it sounds like the Minister for Foreign Affairs slightly suggests that we should have said no to Nord Stream 1. It goes without saying that we must act today. When we made that decision, nothing had happened in Crimea, and the war in Ukraine was not going on. We live in the light of what we know now. After all, the government responsible for foreign policy, based on the facts put on the table today, must take a decision. And then I hope that we still agree that international law is essentially enshrined in the UN Charters 2.3 and 2.4. I have talked with a number of experts in international law: this is an interpretation that certainly holds. The Secretary of State is shaking his head. Then it is also a question of politics being a will. The Secretary of State may not want to use this. After all, we have heard the response from our country's Prime Minister to something that Biden said: It is hoped in some way that Europe will help us. The EU is fantastic, but it will be a false expectation if we believe that the EU will help and think about Sweden's territory and Sweden's security. Indeed, a country's own government must do so. It is a task given to you as Foreign Minister and Government. That's why the government has to take a stand and put on the leader's shirt. Sweden has a unique position, because we do not use a single deciliter of Russian gas. We're not in an addiction position. We should refer to the UN Charter, to the ongoing war in eastern Ukraine and to the illegal annexation of Crimea. If the Russian Federation acts in such a way, we can argue that this, which is a violation of the law of the sea, means that Sweden should join, for example, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, which are acting in favour of a 'no'. We can definitely act and ensure that the state-owned Russian company is not allowed to use Slite port. It's a decision that can be delivered. Member Åsa Eriksson wondered what the Christian Democrats wanted. We want the government to say no. We want action to be taken on the Slite port. If you talk about open doors, I would like to hear what it means and to know clearly what the government wants and whether the government will act to ensure that the Russian Federation and Gazprom cannot use Slite port – that it will be njet from Sweden.
i-738d63fff517557b-107	Mr President, I would like to It was said so much interesting that I almost didn't have time to finish my speech. The last thing Mikael Oscarsson said is very interesting. KD wants the government to say no. KD therefore wants Sweden to violate international law. It was very interesting, but I really can't agree. Hans Wallmark! Thank you for the welcome! It feels good. I welcome what you are calling for with regard to Baltic Sea leadership. It's a shame that that insight didn't come sooner. Five years ago Fredrik Reinfeldt said that this was a question of authorisation and that the government had no say. It would have been good if you had had a little more Baltic Sea leadership then. The Special Envoy of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, in dialogue with our partner countries, will try to get more countries in our position to stand up for international law and for the Energy Agreement. This is Baltic Sea leadership, as I see it. I hope you're happy with that. I think the government seems to have a wise and good line, and I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for that. The issue is problematic, but I think it will be dealt with in a good way.
i-738d63fff517557b-112	Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that the Commission's assessments play an important role. I believe that we must put on the leadership shirt here and, together with the other countries, be very clear with regard to the Commission and the European institutions and say what is obvious: Nord Stream 2 is not in Europe's interest. There is a discussion about the difference between now and then. Some important things have happened between Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2. In brackets, I would like to mention that I, too, was very critical of Nord Stream 1 and regret that it has come into place. The main difference between now and then is that now Russia has illegally annexed Crimea. Now there are Russian troops in eastern Ukraine. Now there is the EU Energy Union which makes it clear that we should not make ourselves more dependent on deliveries from a producer and a country. There are significant differences between now and then. I return kindness: what is the difference between now and then for the Social Democrats? In the election manifesto for the 2009 EU elections, the Social Democrats said: We will say no to the gas pipeline through the Baltic Sea. The EU should not plan for new oil and fossil gas pipelines. The party leaders of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party wrote in a debate article on 26 November 2007: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I thought that was pretty wise of the Social Democrats back then. I wish the Social Democrats could now be as clear as saying that Nord Stream 2 is not in Europe's interest. That would be Baltic Sea leadership.
i-738d63fff517557b-118	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the contributions! It gets more fun and fun, especially when old quotes and decisions come back and bite you in the tail, and it applies to both sides. But the arguments are now becoming somewhat confused. We still have to decide what legal basis to use to say no. However, we must remind the Swedish people that no application has yet been submitted. It is possible that in an application there will be no desire to move Gotland without considering another solution. Perhaps the Commission will ensure that other suppliers enter the network, what do we know? When the application comes in, we'll process it. We shall do so on the basis of the balance and starting points of compliance with our legal obligations and our political objectives. Of course, we do not think it is a good idea from the point of view of the Energy Union. We think a lot of things about how Russia acts, and we also take a stand and take action. We do this in the Foreign Affairs Council and with sanctions, for example. I am sorry, Mikael Oscarsson, but neither the UN Charter nor the Convention on the Law of the Sea gives Sweden the right to prevent, outside our territory, another state's right to lay pipelines because of, for example, aggression that violates the UN Charter. I think I can say that I have very good international law experts to help me, not least at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You're wrong here, that's all. It is important to clarify these arguments. There is no legal basis for using the UN Charter. Otherwise, we would not comply with international law. That is exactly what we are accusing Russia of. For a small country like Sweden, it is incredibly important that we have this kind of rules to help, and we have used these conventions for our own part too when we want to put one and the other on the seabed. We must therefore consider how a country like Sweden can act when we cannot say no on the grounds that it crosses our territory. Yes, we can act by working together, as we do, with the Baltic countries. I met them last week, and we noted that we have exactly the same view and starting point in political terms. We must work with the countries around the Baltic Sea and with the Commission within the conventions that govern, such as environmental considerations in this case. We have to look at our own security policy interests, and then it's about, for example, working with the municipality on Gotland to know how they think if there should be a request. So far, we don't have an application. We must be sure that we are on a good legal basis and that we have all the arguments in terms of the environment and climate, internal market rules, competition rules, procurement rules and other things. That's how we act. In fact, the problem is that we have Germany, the United Kingdom and other countries that want to buy this gas. Therefore, it would probably work better with arguments against those countries that can actually influence the outcome on a legal basis and with the right on their side. You can rest assured that the Swedish Government will look after our own security policy interests. We will act in cooperation with everyone else involved. We can also clarify what we think about the objectives of the Energy Union.
i-738d63fff517557b-127	Mr President, I would like to When the Vice President of the United States was here, he said that this gas pipeline is a bad deal for Europe. That is certainly true. This is a bad security policy. But Sweden can act. Sweden can refer to the rules of international law. It's central. In this case, Russia is violating the statutes. There's a war going on, and Crimea has been annexed. Threats and violence have been committed. It is true that Sweden can claim this. It is clear that it is not a fun message for the Swedish Foreign Minister to deliver to the Russian Foreign Minister. But Sweden needs to put on the leadership shirt and say that this does not match. Actually, this is over. Of course there are different interests. Russia and some debaters want to argue that this is business as usual. There's talk of the law of the sea. However, this is, in my view, overtaken, and a lot of experts share the same view. I think that this is sufficient as a basis to act for Sweden. The Baltic countries share the same view. So we need to act. They are acting very clearly, and we should do what we can. First of all, we can ensure that the message comes out that it is not appropriate for Gazprom to borrow Slite port. It's a message that can be sent now. Today it has become clear in the media that the responsible administrator at the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry says that they know that an application will be submitted next week. It would therefore like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to sharpen the arguments, take on board this issue of international law and make it clear that we can say no to lending Slite port. We shall also stand up for Ukraine and not impair their ability to negotiate. 2 percent of their bnp will be lost a if you are not able to let the gas go through there.
i-738d63fff517557b-132	Mr President, I would like to It's getting more and more confused. Again, we believe that we must have a legal basis on which to stand. If we are to be able to say no, as Mikael Oscarsson wants, we must be absolutely clear about the legal framework to which we refer and which international or national law we are to use. Besides, it's not even on our territory. How, then, can we act legally? What Mikael Oscarsson says about this is still highly unclear and confused. I think he needs to go back and talk to his advisors. We don't have an application yet. We don't know what it looks like. We do not yet know exactly what route to take or whether you want to use a port here or there. But, of course, we will take a stand on this. And, of course, we will look after our security interests. You can be absolutely sure that we will look at that question, Mikael Oscarsson. We are acting with the Baltic countries. As I said, we were gathered here last week, and we had the same view on this. We don't like this project. We believe that the objectives of the Energy Union should apply. But we also realise that we have limited possibilities, because this pipeline does not go through our territories. Nor can we intervene by using the Convention on the Law of the Sea in this case. That's why we have to work together. We must also try to get the Commission to intervene. Then we can influence the countries that are going to be buyers of this gas, and that might be even more effective at this point. But we will act consistently and on a legal basis.
i-738d63fff517557b-135	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Hans Wallmark has asked me what measures I intend to take to clarify the Swedish safety policy analysis of Vattenfall's agreement with Rosatom and whether it is a Swedish interest to be the gateway for the sale of Russian nuclear fuel in western-designed nuclear reactors. I do not intend to take any steps to clarify a security policy analysis of Vattenfall's business relations. Vattenfall's supply of nuclear fuel can be seen as an example of how diversified our energy supply is. In addition to Russia, which has delivered fuel to Sweden for 40 years, Canada, Kazakhstan, Australia and Namibia are also important energy suppliers to Vattenfall's facilities. The energy market and its actors are governed by laws and regulations. The State does not indicate which suppliers are to be used by individual companies, including the state-owned companies, in their energy production. No changes with such meaning in the ownership directives of state-owned companies are relevant.
i-738d63fff517557b-139	Mr President, I would like to Madam Foreign Minister! We have a new security policy situation in Europe. The conflicts in the Middle East have come closer to our borders. The Russian leadership uses both weapons and the state propaganda apparatus for a revengeism with new ambitions of power. Several countries in Eastern Europe feel strongly threatened. In Ukraine war is taking place and now it seems to be expanding to the south. For a long time Putin has also used oil and gas in a political power game. What do we do? The EU, as everyone knows, has a relatively weak common foreign policy but has nevertheless managed to agree on comprehensive sanctions in protest against Russia's annexation of the Crimean Peninsula in violation of international agreements and conventions. In addition, in several different contexts, all EU countries have jointly stated that dependence on energy from Russia should be reduced and that no new energy agreements should be concluded with Moscow. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Those were pretty smart words. I can tell you that, because I'm not the one who wrote them. This is directly quoted from a debate article in the Finnish press written by then MEP Peter Eriksson, now a member of the same government and cabinet as Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. I think it is wise and insightful and, of course, I hope that this line is also that of the government. It is in the light of what is to be seen this discussion about Russian nuclear fuel in Ringhals. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points out in the interpellation response that she does not intend to take any steps to clarify the security policy analysis of this. All you have to do is regret it. I think that there is reason to take a security policy perspective, because there is a significant difference between now and then. There is now a deterioration in the security situation in the Baltic Sea region. We see this through the illegal annexation of Crimea, Russian troops in eastern Ukraine, incidents and provocations in the Baltic Sea and the continued gradual armament on the Russian side. We have also responded to this through a defence settlement and a defence decision where we more clearly mark a strong Swedish defence capability here and now. But it is also about the threats of the new era. We are absolutely convinced that hybrid warfare is being conducted and that various other tools are being used to undermine and run campaigns against different countries. It is in the light of this one should see the danger of dependence on energy supplies from Russia. What is now about to happen via Vattenfall and Ringhals is to use sample fuel from Russia to license it. This makes Sweden the first Western European country with which this is being tested. This will also be a springboard for Russia to offer this type of fuel to other countries as well. As with the Nord Stream issue, I think we need to ask ourselves what is in Europe's interest. Is increased dependence on Russian energy supplies to European countries, whether gas or nuclear fuel, in our interest? The answer is no. It is not in Europe's interest. That is why I regret the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think that a security policy analysis should be carried out on this, and I hope that Peter Eriksson's wise thoughts as a Member of the European Parliament can be reflected when he is a member of the same government as Mrs Wallström.
i-738d63fff517557b-146	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I wanted to start by thanking Mr Wallmark for always having these exciting and important discussions on Swedish foreign policy and security policy in general. We live in such a troubled world, and we need to sort out the arguments. We have had an extra pleasure today because we have taken the opportunity to lift old wrongs up into the light and also old texts. The question of Russian nuclear fuel in Swedish nuclear power plants is in the archives. Then it is so funny that it was a question asked by the then chairman of the Committee on Defence Peter Hultqvist to my predecessor Carl Bildt about three years ago. That is why I have answered the question just as Carl Bildt did then. Now we have somehow gone the whole yard around. The main argument is: Should the state point out which suppliers should be used by individual companies in their energy projects? What are you going to say about Kazakhstan or any of the other countries that deliver? Should the state go in and regulate this? I don't think, Hans Wallmark, that you really think so. It must be a fundamental principle that the state cannot go in and say: These you can buy from, and these you should not buy from. I think we'll end up in a morass. That is why Carl Bildt replied as he did, and that is why I am repeating the same answer today. Vattenfall has since 2010 been tasked by the Riksdag to conduct energy activities in a commercial manner so that the company is one of the companies that leads the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. This means that the government as owner in our governance of Vattenfall shall not take any action that is contrary to the mission of Vattenfall to act commercially. Now it buys fuel elements from several suppliers. Not committing to a supplier is also a basic principle for securing fuel supply. Vattenfall has for several years a project to evaluate and verify future fuel elements where you have several suppliers. Does Hans Wallmark think that the government should go in and tell us exactly from which suppliers Vattenfall or other state-owned companies should buy products?
i-738d63fff517557b-151	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Foreign Affairs is quite right that she is recycling, recycling, Carl Bildt's previous reply with one exception, namely that his last paragraph was no. 2 in her reply. That is where she says that no safety policy analysis should be made clear. Mr President, I would like to Let us perhaps also listen to Mr Hultqvist's question to the then Foreign Minister, Carl Bildt. 中 Vattenfall has concluded an agreement with State Rosatom for testing Russian nuclear fuel in Ringhals 3. A press release from Rosatom describes the agreement on the gateway to the sale of Russian nuclear fuel to nuclear reactors designed in the West. The question is whether it is a Swedish national interest to contribute to this in the light of the fact that the EU is now trying to reduce its dependence on Russian energy. No comprehensive safety analysis has been carried out on the part of the Government Office to address, among other things, the security policy aspects and the appropriateness of the agreement. In Russia, foreign and security policy is often linked to energy policy. Rosatom is part of this arrangement. ..................................................... Anyone who reads my interpellation can also discover that traces of nuts are not found but well of the current defense minister's question. It is quite true that there is one now and one then. Nevertheless, what I would like to point out in relation to the discussion that took place between Carl Bildt and Peter Hultqvist 2012/ 13 is that we now have a seriously impaired security situation. There is every reason to follow with great fermity what is now happening in our neighbourhood with Russian troops in Ukraine, increased training activities, this kind of provocation and in the light of the fact that we also have the EU's Energy Union. There is great wisdom in us not making ourselves further dependent on Russian energy supplies, whether it is gas or nuclear fuel. We know that Russia uses such tools in various ways in its way of campaigning and undermining activities against neighbouring countries. It's about propaganda, disinformation and cyberattacks. We have also seen that energy supplies have been used in the past, for example, as a means of exerting pressure on a number of winters since, for example, Bulgaria. That's what makes it so serious. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for reusing the previous Foreign Minister's reply. I would like to thank the current Minister of Defence for allowing me to re-use his question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to emphasise the new seriousness of the situation in Europe, with the greatly deteriorating security situation. It is in the light of what we should look more at the threats posed by various forms of hybrid warfare, including energy supplies. That is why I think we should honour and pay tribute to the European Union's Energy Union. We should not make Europe more dependent on Russian supplies of gas and nuclear fuel.
i-738d63fff517557b-158	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Hans Wallmark. Some other things have happened recently too, namely that the EU has decided on sanctions against Russia. The risk is that you mix goals and means and eventually you also mix apples and pears. The question is: What means do you want to use? We have an Energy Union with energy policy objectives. We agree with each other on the importance of this. We have a sanctioning regime and a strategy towards Russia and how to deal with Russia, including all the security issues. But is the right way to go and the right means to let the state go in and decide for different companies which suppliers to use? Then I think we're dangerous out there. I'd be happy to stand for it. We can go on forever and go back to previous questioners and those who have answered the questions. I think we have to deal with the situation we have today. We have a policy that must be quite clear and clear towards Russia, including the sanctions, and stick to them and stick to this unity among the EU countries. We must support and help Ukraine. We need to help them succeed and help them financially. We need to ensure that they have an energy policy that is an energy policy for the future. We also need a defence policy and security policy that puts us in the best position. But we should not use state ownership directives to go in and regulate in detail how even a state-owned company should have it with its suppliers. Then I think we're on a sloping plane.
i-738d63fff517557b-162	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. What concerns me is that the idea of the nuclear fuel to be used in Ringhals is that it will be licensed and thus a springboard into the Western European market. That is what I see as the great danger. What is the key is precisely what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, namely the continuation of the sanctions policy. It is extremely important that we have continued pressure on Russia precisely because the illegal annexation of Crimea continues, that Russian troops are present in Ukraine and that the Minsk agreements in no way seem to be respected and kept. We know that there was already a discussion in Europe a few months ago about whether to lift sanctions. Now they will remain until January next year. I hope that we will continue to have the sanctions as long as the occupation of Crimea continues. What I am afraid of is that, with increased dependence on Russian gas, Russian nuclear fuel and Russian economic interests, it is a little bit like a means of exerting pressure on countries. You can unscrew and screw on, and unscrew and screw on. I'm genuinely worried about that. It is in this light that I think we should see the European Union's Energy Union. Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely right that the whole problem of the interpellation should be sought back to what approach Europe should have vis-à-vis Russia. I hope that we continue to stand for a strong policy of sanctions and do not undermine it by either political decisions or pressure decisions. Then we shall stand up to Russia in a clear way. We shall make it clear that what has been done is wrong and that it has fundamentally changed the European security regime. It requires diplomacy, security policy and a strong Swedish defence capability.
i-738d63fff517557b-168	Mr President, I would like to On this last point, we agree. We are among the countries that are most pressing to maintain the sanctions regime vis-à-vis Russia, to be consistent and to hold Europe together. But this is the wrong tool. You cannot do this arbitrarily. We still have to comply with international law and have a legal basis to act, whether it is Swedish law or international law, so that we are consistent and a credible trading partner. The question then is how to act against other countries. Should we also issue ownership directives in other countries or specify which suppliers you can buy from? Then we are on a sloping level and regulate details that the state should not interfere with. I thought that Mr Wallmark, from which I am assuming a more permissive view of the market economy, would not think that this is a particularly good option.
i-738d63fff517557b-170	Mr President, I would like to Mats Green has asked me how I and the government intend to act to save the crayfish party and Swedish crayfish fishing, its companies and jobs. Unfortunately, there have recently been a lot of misunderstandings and rumours about the impact on signal confirmation of the rules of the EU regulation on invasive alien species. Since 3 August this year, the provisions of the EU Regulation in all Member States apply to the 37 species included in the first list of invasive alien species of Union importance. Signal crayfish is one of the species. The list of invasive alien species has been developed from an EU perspective with the aim of implementing joint actions within the EU to reduce the risk of species spreading within and between countries, thereby threatening biodiversity and causing social and economic damage. In Sweden and Finland, signal crayfish has been found for several decades and is today an important economic and cultural resource. Sweden, together with Finland, has been active during the drafting of the regulation and pushed the issue that we must be able to ensure the continued use of this resource even if it is listed. Under the EU acquis, a national management programme is to be developed to allow the signal crayfish to be handled through fishing and more. This step means that we will now design a programme to handle signal crayfish in a way that is suitable for Swedish conditions and where continued fishing of signal crayfish is possible. The Maritime and Water Authority has the main responsibility for developing such a management programme, and it is designed at government level where business and environmental interests work together to best apply the regulation. Selling boiled or frozen signal crayfish will continue to be permitted as well as transporting live crayfish to boiling facilities. Furthermore, the EU acquis does not exclude the sale of live crayfish provided that this is done in a safe manner so as to prevent further dissemination. I would therefore like to assure Mats Green that we will continue to enjoy a Swedish crayfish party consisting of Swedish crayfish.
i-738d63fff517557b-176	Mr President, I would like to The background to the interpellation is, as has been said, the fact that a new EU directive was introduced on 3 August this year, which means that it will be forbidden to change, grow, breed, transport, use, maintain and, above all, sell 37 so-called invasive species, including signal crayfish. The consequences of this are completely unreasonable and are already hitting hard both against our Swedish crayfish party and against jobs and companies all over Sweden, such as Carlén's fish in Habo in my constituency, Jönköping County, which as a result has had to lay off all its employees. One cannot continue to deal with this issue with a casual heel kick. The directive may be well-meaning, but it fails in reality. However, the main problem in this case is mainly the recurrent overinterpretation of EU directives by Swedish authorities. When Nature Conservation recently presented the Swedish implementation of the directive, it became clear that a species that ends up on the EU death list, such as signal crayfish, can no longer be sold in Sweden. They may continue to be sold in 2016, but then it is stop p. After 3 August 2017, it will also be prohibited to sell signal crayfish, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has decided in its directives, which are now also published on its website. It is clear, however, that new signal crayfish must not be planted in the watercourses where they already exist in the event that the present stock is destroyed for some reason. Since the crayfish is in principle destroyed by the crayfish plague, the signal crayfish is absolutely essential if we are to have any crayfish fishing whatsoever. If you are to plant crayfish in signal crayfish water, you must first actively eradicate all signal crayfish. It would take decades per watercourse, and it naturally falls on its own absurdity. In addition, fewer than 1 000 of Sweden's several hundred thousand rivers are river crayfish waters. At worst, we will have to rely on frozen imported crayfish from China or Russia. The Commission's handling leaves everything to be desired. It is also a fact that the Swedish Government has been both unengaged and inactive in this. Now we have to act, and that is the reason for my interpellation. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. However, I do lack answers to two very crucial questions. First of all, I would like a clear message from the Minister regarding the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's directive on the matter, namely that from August 2017 it is completely forbidden to sell Swedish signal crayfish. What is the case – is it the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's directive that applies, or is it Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht's opposite message to me today that applies? Secondly, the Minister does not deny that it will ban the planting of new signal crayfish into the watercourses and farms where only signal crayfish exist today. Such a ban is not an insignificant detail, but actually slow to strangle many of our crayfish companies as well as the availability of Swedish crayfish. In particular, the last two questions I would like to hear and answer.
i-738d63fff517557b-182	Mr President, I would like to Sweden, with Finland, has very much pushed for exceptions for the 37 invasive alien species. We've managed to get those exceptions. It has been a very hard job from Sweden and Finland to succeed. This actually means that, to the same extent as today, we should be able to continue fishing and consuming signal crayfish. This is the result of the pressure that Sweden and Finland have put on this issue. This does not preclude continued fishing of signal crayfish, provided, of course, that it is carried out within the framework of management programmes and the restrictions that exist and which Sweden has largely already imposed since before. We also have an action programme on the crayfish. Selling cooked or frozen signal crayfish will continue to be permitted, as will the transport of live crayfish to cooking facilities. It is true that the EU regulation has banned the cultivation and rearing of crayfish in available waters. That's right. But there have been many different ways of spreading tremendously misinformation mainly by the Moderates in the media during the summer. It is unfortunate that the situation is described quite wrongly. Untruths have been spread. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency describes in general terms what applies to the 37 invasive alien species, but it also says that there are exceptions for species that are common at national level and refers to documents held by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. It is the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management that deals with the issues, not the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, as the honourable Member says in the speaker's chair. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management handles these issues. Very misleading information has come from moderates in particular. Even prominent researchers in Sweden who are researching crayfish say that it is unfortunate that this issue is described in a way that is not correct. Lennart Edsman at SLU has stated this in the media. It is very unfortunate that untruths and misinformation are being spread in the media. It has the consequence, as the honourable Member says, that companies are starting to lay off people. Is it not more important from a moderate point of view that we discuss Swedish challenges when it comes to fishing rather than spreading untruths?
i-738d63fff517557b-189	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Government avoids answering my questions. I also note that the Swedish Government has been active. No, it hasn't been at all. It has not been active or very committed. The Finnish Government has been, but the Swedish Government with Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has shone with his absence. Mr President, I would like to I also think – if I am to be honest – that it is nonchalant to dismiss the issue when we nevertheless see the concrete consequences this has for companies and jobs throughout Sweden. The government claims that the Moderates, above all, come up with lies. What we are starting from are the directives issued and communicated by the State Environmental Protection Agency to both traders and the general public. It is the Environmental Protection Agency's directive, which is in no way generally accepted but extremely specific. It is clear from the first paragraph that after 3 August 2017, it will be prohibited to sell these species as well. One of these species listed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is signal crayfish. What are you supposed to believe in? Apparently, it's a matter of lies. State authorities, where the Minister for Rural Development is one of the most responsible, go out with clear directives to traders and the public that this will be prohibited. The minister slips away from the answer. I want a clear message. Is it the Environmental Protection Agency's directive that applies or not? How does the Minister for Rural Development intend to deal with this issue? Companies, of course, rely on the information they have received from state authorities. I want specific answers to this. The Minister for Rural Development himself has said that he wants to ban the planting of signal crayfish into watercourses where they already exist. This means, in fact, that most Swedish crayfish companies are slowly being strangled because they cannot plant new signal crayfish. We know, among other things, that a major problem is crayfish theft. Crayfish are being stolen. If some of these crayfish varieties are knocked out – even signal crayfish is sensitive to crayfish plague, if not as sensitive as the crayfish – for example, an entire stock is destroyed in a watercourse, new crayfish must not be planted. If signal crayfish are to be actively killed in 99 per cent of all watercourses where only they exist and then to be planted in river crayfish, it is a process that will take at least several decades – between 20 and 40 years. Then the Swedish Government cannot just sit with its arms crossed and deny this. If the introduction of signal crayfish is banned in signal crayfish water, it will have enormous consequences. Theft is a big problem. There are other challenges. Why can't new signal crayfish be planted into the rivers where they already exist? On the one hand, I would like to hear the Minister's comment on the companies that are severely affected and, on the other, how the Minister intends to deal with the Environmental Protection Agency's directives, which are in no way horizontal and general but extremely specific. As of 3 August 2017, the sale of Swedish signal crayfish will be prohibited. I want the Minister's information on what he's going to do and what's going on.
i-738d63fff517557b-197	Mr President, I would like to There are no major changes affecting the industry. Many of the regulations contained in the regulation have been implemented by Sweden a long time ago because the signal crayfish is an invasive species and threatens the river crayfish. It became a release stop for signal crayfish in new waters in 1994. Action programmes for the conservation of the river crayfish and the river crayfish were introduced as early as 1998. There was an import ban for live crayfish from abroad in 2003. The possibility of creating special protection areas for Norway lobster is available from 2005. It is four out of the five requirements contained in the EU regulation that Sweden has already met in the past. What remains to be fulfilled is the regulation of the transport of live signal crayfish, how they are sealed at shipping so that they do not come into contact with other waters, and so on. From now on, you can transport live signal crayfish to the cookery. Mats Green is trying to make a number of the fact that the whole industry is about to be knocked out. I will inform Mats Green that there are five registered companies with regard to the cultivation of signal crayfish. They grow less than 300 kilos a year. On the other hand, 190 tonnes are fished professionally in the larger lakes. Will it continue? It will not be a ban. A total of 600 tonnes of signal crayfish are fished. It will be possible to continue eating and transporting crayfish, but there is a regulatory framework for how they can be transported. Again, I say to Mats Green that it is the Maritime and Water Authority that deals with these issues. I have produced an extract from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website, to which Mats Green refers. It provides a general description of the 37 alien invasive species. Then it is clear that for those species on the list that are already widely distributed in the country, there is no requirement for eradication and specific rules apply to them. Then it appears that information, questions and answers about the new rules for the species that exist are provided on the website of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. Apparently Mats Green hasn't been able to pull that page out. The website of the Maritime and Water Administration shows the following: Can I fish for signal crayfish? Yes, as in the past, the fishing on signal-cray continues both for fishermen and for fishermen with individual rights. ..................................................... Can I sell and transport live signal crayfish? Yes, the signal crayfish may be sold and transported alive. And so on and so on. I have underlined these questions and answers. I'm gonna leave this paper to Mats Green so he can read the information that's here. Apparently Mats Green and the Moderates have not endeavoured to move forward, but they refer to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website, but they do not refer to what is said about the species that are scattered in Sweden. There are special rules and exceptions. They have not tried to find out, but are spreading untruths around Sweden.
i-738d63fff517557b-204	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Government is still not answering my questions. He comes with answers to questions that no one has asked. He refers to the fact that in Sweden it has been forbidden for a long time to plant new signal crayfish in e.g. river crayfish waters. Yes, everyone agrees that you should not plant signal crayfish where there are river crayfish. But banning the planting of signal crayfish where there are already and only signal crayfish is what we are discussing. Again, the Government slides on the target as he tries to remove the Environmental Protection Agency's directives. I hope the Government has stepped up its activity in relation to the past. As I said, the Finnish Government has been very active, while the Swedish Government and the Minister for Rural Development Bucht have shone with their absence.
i-738d63fff517557b-208	I can read and understand what I'm reading. It is important to deal with the directive that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has submitted to traders and the general public. That, however, is what our companies are targeting. So to the last question, in which the Council of State, above all, glides on the answer. It's about the implantation of new signal crayfish. What will happen if an existing signal crayfish stock is destroyed? Should we wait 20, 30 or 40 years until we may get a river crayfish stock that can be fished? I would like a clear and simple answer to this question from the minister responsible, Mr President.
i-738d63fff517557b-211	Mr President, I would like to It is deeply unfortunate that a party as large as the Moderates in various ways during the summer has spread completely wrong information on the issue of signal crayfish. The information doesn't match at all. Reference is made to an authority's directive, but this authority refers on its website to the Maritime and Water Authority, which regulates this. It is its responsibility to deal with this. I have said that several times from this speaker's seat. It tries to give a picture that Sweden has not acted on the matter. But we have acted together with Finland. We often act together with the Nordic countries on issues where we share a common view. I have also taken the initiative that we should act together with Finland. But apparently Mats Green has better information about the government's work than I do. It's very strange. However, it is typical that you describe things incorrectly and give incorrect information. I don't know if you're inspired by Putin or Donald Trump when you're having a moderate debate like this.
i-738d63fff517557b-214	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Sundin has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the space industry in Sweden. Space research and activities are of strategic importance to society. Society depends on space technologies such as navigation, logistics, precise time, weather forecasts, telecommunications and environmental and climate monitoring. The Government's efforts for the space industry are primarily carried out through the Swedish Space Agency, which has the task of, among other things, promoting Swedish space-related industry and its innovation and competitiveness, supporting the innovative and high-tech capabilities of companies within the space-related industry and allocating state aid to space-related development work. This is done both nationally and via the various programmes of the European Space Agency (Esa). Swedish space companies are successful internationally. For example, 58% of the turnover for the 2015 overall business comes from competitive commercial transactions, compared to the last reported corresponding figure in Europe, which was 41%. In connection with the last two research policy proposals, the Swedish Space Agency has received permanent increases for space research and activities totalling SEK 120 million. These are fixed. Sweden, together with the other EU Member States, has invested heavily for many years in the development of the Galileo satellite navigation programme and the Copernicus Earth Copernicus system. The market potential for applications, new applications, innovative services and products from companies, and thus for societal and economic growth, is also assessed as great in Sweden. Swedish companies have delivered technology to the satellites in both Copernicus and Galileo programmes and to our overall ability to postpone them in orbit. The state-owned Swedish Space Company conducts a successful business at the Esrange rocket base, including the world's largest civil ground station to take down commercial satellite data. For this there are strong space clusters, especially in West Sweden and the Uppsala-Stockholm region. In December last year, together with Esa's Director General, I opened a special Swedish innovation incubator for the space area, initiated in collaboration between the Swedish Space Agency, three regional innovation incubators and Esa. Currently, the Ministry of Education is also carrying out a knowledge acquisition on the prerequisites for developing the Esrange rocket base to be able to launch small satellites in orbit. It is important that Sweden defends the investments made in skills, knowledge and infrastructure, that we support the particular importance of long-term sustainability for space activities and make maximum use of the resources that space activities already include or are about to develop. I am confident that we are giving good support to the Swedish space industry through the efforts made both nationally and internationally.
i-738d63fff517557b-225	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin this interpellation debate in 2004. At that time, the first privately funded manned space flight was carried out. It was on the anniversary 47 years after Sputnik was launched and humanity reached space in this way. What happened in 2004 was the start of the private space industry, which we have seen grow rapidly since then. One might, if you will excuse me, resemble a three-step rocket. The first step is coming to an end, and it is time for the second step to be taken. We have seen a growth that is increasing all the time. That is probably why The Economist recently had a special report on the private space industry and what is happening in this area. Among other things, they write about investments in the private space industry. They amounted to approximately SEK 20 billion last year, which is more than the last 15 years together. The turnover of the global space industry has almost doubled in the last ten years. This is driven by many different developments, mainly linked to technological development. You do both better and cheaper things. Not least, it concerns satellites, which are getting smaller and also better. It would be exciting if they could be postponed from Sweden. Another development that has taken place recently and that has not yet had any impact is the landing of rockets. This will allow these rockets to be reused, which will, of course, significantly reduce costs. One can imagine what it would cost to buy a plane ticket if a new aircraft had to be built every time a flight was to be carried out. Access to space has increased, and it will probably increase significantly in many ways. As the Government says in its reply, we can see that it already affects a wide range of areas. One of these areas is manned space travel. It can be linked to research, development and testing activities. We are very proud of Christer Fuglesang, who was up in space. But it was almost ten years ago, and we need to accelerate that development. As the headline shows, my interpellation is about space tourism and that kind of manned space travel. Sweden has a huge opportunity to become Europe's first and largest space port for commercial space flights. However, this requires action from the government. It does not require a lot of money; it does not require millions or billions of investments. However, this requires action. This answer contains a very good, broad review of the space industry. Unfortunately, however, not a single word is said about space tourism and manned space travel, even though the Government covers a variety of other areas. So what does the government think about manned space travel and space tourism? What's the government doing there? What is the strategy and action in this area?
i-738d63fff517557b-235	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Sundin, for your follow-up question! I understood that there was a difference between what you wanted to know and the actual question you asked, because the title is not really related to your question. I'll try to answer the question. First of all, I would like to say that no applications have actually been submitted to the Swedish Space Agency, for example, when it comes to making manned space trips from Sweden. Therefore, our expert authority has had no reason to take a stand on this issue. However, this is something that occurs in other countries. Several European countries and the United States have begun to look at and conduct commercial trials. The UK has given a mandate to see what opportunities there are to develop this, but no real decisions have yet been taken. Sweden is a leading space nation and will continue to be so. I think it's important that we develop our space strategy. A year ago, I received a report which has since been consulted, and we are now working on the answers. Nor is there any huge pressure. The EU and Esa are also developing a space strategy. I'm going to a meeting on this in December. It is important to put Sweden in a European context. We gather where we can really make a difference and benefit the Swedish space industry, research and innovation capacity. Some of these things will be touched upon in the forthcoming research policy bill. As I said in my reply, we have commissioned Jan Nygren to look at the possibilities of developing Esrange. If we are to make further assessments of where we are to gather together, we should do this in relation to the whole of Europe so that we do not spread our congratulations but are a competitive country that we want to cooperate with. We have a unique geographical location for space operations, which Esrange is a good example of. With regard to manned space travel, the government's initial view is that these should be commercial activities based on commercial initiatives. No such initiatives have yet been taken in Sweden. We therefore need to wait for this, but will of course take account of and follow what is happening in other countries.
i-738d63fff517557b-242	Mr President, I would like to As the Government says, Sweden is very well prepared. We have a space team in place, which may, however, need to be updated a little regarding manned space travel. The country has a long experience of this. As far as manned space travel and space tourism are concerned, we have Spaceport Sweden, which of course is in this country but which also has strong international connections, not least with the USA, which is the leading space country. What is being asked of the industry, as I understand it, is action by the government. The industry is calling for a strong positive signal in terms of an application procedure – not for an advance ruling on an authorisation but for the application to be handled in a positive way. The industry is asking the government to say that it wants this type of industry and companies in Sweden – not by going in with a lot of investments, but only by the government saying that it will be helpful and make sure to deal with any obstacles that arise in the legislation. Space law may have to be updated, and there may be other regulatory obstacles. One can review this proactively but also be prepared to deal quickly with such problems when they arise. Then these companies would be interested. They have said that they are interested in Sweden, but they want to know if Sweden is interested in them. Then they can spend time and money on submitting an application. There are good conditions regularly and also a number of possible airports – you fly from ordinary airports – where Skellefteå, among others, has stepped forward in recent times. What is needed is a sufficiently long runway, as they have said they may be developing. They are interested, and so can other municipalities, and we therefore have very good conditions. If you are going to submit an application, you also need to know how to apply. There has to be an application procedure for companies – what else are they going to send in? Sweden has no such thing. In 2014, a proposal was submitted to the government on how it could look. This may not be feasible, but it can be a good starting point. At least the government has to come up with some kind of response. We have to ask ourselves whether this is a good thing. Will we be able to use this application procedure further, or do we need to change it in any way? Perhaps an authority could be given the task of developing one, so that these companies see how it goes to apply in Sweden and that the Swedish government is in favour of having such an activity in the country. In that case, I am sure that the chances of applications for manned space travel will increase considerably. As the Government says, Britain, for example, is hugely hot on this. They have very actively shown that they are acting, through competition between different cities in the question of where a space port should be located. It has been clearly stated that it will deal with the problems that arise and remove obstacles to this activity. What I think is positive about this is that we do not fall into the trap of the state investing in an industry, pumping in a few billions and hoping that it will be good. Such assessments will be the best we can do. But this is about the core task of a state and of a government and parliament: removing barriers to industries that want to grow on their own strength and with their own money. With the huge investment and the increased investment rate, it can also attract a great deal of capital to Sweden, which in turn creates growth, jobs, cutting-edge research and more.
i-738d63fff517557b-248	Mr President, I would like to I am glad that we agree that the state should not invest billions in this. It's supposed to carry itself on its own commercial legs. I think it is important to have this with us, because no formal application from any such industries or companies has been received. It is perfectly possible for them to make an application today to the National Space Board for consideration. Of course, we should be well prepared if one comes. The review of the Space Act is part of the report. It should be remembered, however, that these issues are often conducted regionally and that that is where these companies make probes, rather than against the government. It then examines different countries and regions in order to examine the conditions, both in fact and in terms of possible financial support. That is why, as I said, I am pleased that we agree that such state aid should not be granted to a particular sector, but that this must be done on its own initiative and with its own commercial power. I would like to say once again that it is important for us as a country – if we want to continue to be an interesting partner – to prioritise and gather strength. This is the government's intention with the treatment of the report and also the research bill and Jan Nygren's mission to review how best we can use Esrange, which is a unique place. This will also be put into a European, strategic joint effort. This will benefit the already existing industry we have, which mainly works with what is known as upstream services, i.e. that technology develops both satellites and launchers to get these satellites into orbit. This is important for Swedish industry and contributes to growth in Sweden but also to technological development and advanced research. What we need to do a little more well is to use the services that we can take down from space and the large satellite programmes and see what industry we can develop connected to it. That is what we have chosen to prioritise. The work is done not only from the Ministry of Education but very much from the Ministry of Industry. The issues that regions are pursuing in terms of space tourism and a possible new space port are often linked to regional development, tourism development and other issues on which the Ministry of Industry is primarily responsible for dialogue. I strongly urge you to do so. Our focus has been on how Sweden can develop space use in terms of the environment, climate, research, innovation, defence and security, but also on Sweden's participation in and use of the European space programmes.
i-738d63fff517557b-254	Mr President, I would like to As the Government said in its initial answer, there are a number of successful Swedish companies that build parts for satellites, among other things. But if you look at the space industry as a whole in Sweden, it has not had the growth that we have seen internationally in recent years, but is roughly flat. This indicates that there is a missed potential in Sweden. I would like to say a few things about space tourism. Is there an explicit will on the part of the government for companies to come here and operate here? Now there's a chance to say it. We can play it for them so that they see that the government is in favour of such companies coming here, not to get state aid, but because we think it is good with this type of activity and will treat it in a positive way. As far as the application procedure is concerned, there is no way to apply. They can of course submit some paper and hope that it will do, but if the state has an application procedure for how it will be done, it will be much easier. It is a clear way of showing in concrete action that they are warmly welcome to seek, that this is the case and that this is what we want to know in an application procedure. Will the government take hold of this, Helene Hellmark Knutsson? You have been given a suggestion as to what it might look like. Are you going to use it or something else to develop an application procedure? I believe that the space industry is positive for Sweden in many ways, not least for the brand Sweden – to be proud to be Swedish and that we are at the forefront of such an interesting and exciting business. It concerns jobs, growth, research and all such things but also Sweden as a brand, Sweden as a country and our reputation internationally.
i-738d63fff517557b-259	Mr President, I would like to Thanks again for an important and good question! I very much hope that it has become clear that it is an important issue for the government how we develop our space strategy and activities linked to industry but also to the major societal challenges. As I said, our traditional space industry has been very focused on the technological development of upstream services, i.e. to postpone satellites or contribute to launch development. It has been good, and we will continue to do so. However, I see that there is potential for increased growth. My focus has been on how we can develop the services that come from space, that is, the so-called downstream services, and from the satellites, where I do not think we have been the same forward. It will affect many, both public authorities and private companies, who will have the opportunity to develop this. It is also one of the large, supporting parts of Esrange. This is the focus we have in the future on developing the Swedish space industry and space research. As I said, there is already an opportunity to submit an application today, but we have not received such an application from any actor. The interest or desire of the traditional space industry has been very limited. However, this issue is driven from certain parts of the region in Sweden, and we shall of course take this into account. But it is above all a matter for the Ministry of Enterprise and Regional Development.
i-738d63fff517557b-264	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked me why the issue of introducing the possibility of obtaining student loans for driving licences has been delayed and when a concrete proposal on the means of study for driving licences can be presented to Parliament. Jan Ericson has also asked me whether I can guarantee that the election promise will be fulfilled during his term of office. Lack of economy can in many cases be a reason not to take a driving licence. The holding of a B driving licence can facilitate and speed up entry into the labour market. It is therefore important that the possibility of taking a B licence is not limited to those who can afford it. However, it is important to ensure that any measures to allow more people to afford B driving licences are accurate and give rise to expected effects. Such measures must not lead to unnecessary costs, either for individuals or for society. The Government intends to investigate the possibility of applying for a loan from CSN for driving licence training in order to implement the proposal during its term of office.
i-738d63fff517557b-266	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I note that today's debate was very timely in view of what has happened and the recent news. It is gratifying that the government has finally come to the fore on this issue. But it is a little unclear what the government really promises, Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Jonas Sjöstedt of the Left Party said the other day that you have taken care of the fact that before the next election you should be able to take CSN loans to get a driving licence. The Government is a little more cautious in its response, but it is something you will have to sort out internally, I suspect. The issue of student loans for driving licence costs has been discussed for a long time and many have been exercising on this issue over the years. In the previous year, for example, there were about ten moderate parliamentary movements on this matter, including one from the undersigned. The idea of student loans for driving licences is also included in a 2015 report from a moderate working group discussing policies for reduced exclusion. I can inform the Government that we on the moderate side are in favour of the idea of offering student loans for driving licences. However, we would like to see the whole proposal in detail before taking a definitive position. There are a number of question marks. Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd contribute some thoughts for the continued investigation work. In 2014 the future Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promised to introduce student loans for driving licences. However, the right would only be granted to those students who graduated high school with passed grades, this as some kind of carrot to complete high school. It would be unfortunate if this were to continue to be the government's line. Today you can start driving at the age of 16, and most have passed their 18th birthday by a good margin when they graduate from high school. Of course, it is much better from the labour market point of view if you have your driving licence ready already when you graduate from high school and then are ready to apply directly for a job or further training requiring a driving licence. It is also highly doubtful whether it would really be a carrot of any importance to a high school student to borrow 20 000 – 25 000 for a driving licence. The carrot for completing high school should of course be completely different, for example that it makes it easier to get a job or makes it possible to continue studying at college. It is also the case, of course, that many of those who do not pass upper secondary school with approved grades, as well as many others, may also need support for driving licences. It is at least as important for these groups to be able to take jobs that require driving licences. It would not be unreasonable to have the same age limit and framework for student loans for driving licences as for other means of study and to leave the regulatory framework to the same for all. Then these student loans for driving licences could, for example, contribute to the reduction of exclusion among low-skilled young people and those born abroad, two groups that we often talk about in these contexts. In addition, student loans should be available for all types of driving licences, including heavy vehicles, buses, taxis and more. These are training programmes that are clearly comparable to other short-term vocational training programmes that currently qualify for student aid. Student loans for these driving licence training courses could help many to find a job and provide the labour market with the required skills. Today, the Public Employment Service sometimes makes a contribution to driving licences if it is seen that it will lead to jobs. This is perceived as very unfair to everyone else who has paid for their driving licences themselves. If all types of driving licences gave the right to student loans, everyone would be treated equally, and the Public Employment Service could then use this money for other purposes. It is also important, as the Government points out, that the regulatory framework is designed in a way that counteracts abuse. Perhaps an amount limit is needed which means that the entire cost is not covered by the loan. This would prevent the costs of driving licences from rising as a result of the reform. Perhaps the student loan should also be paid in instalments as the education is completed. These are important things that I think should be considered during the further work.
i-738d63fff517557b-278	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jan Ericson, for your posts and your fellow mails! I thought I'd comment on some of these things. First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that we have a common understanding that this is an important measure to ensure that young people can get to work. When we took office, Sweden had a record youth unemployment rate, which is now the lowest in 13 years. It is fantastically good, but the goal must, of course, be that all young people can go either to study or to work after completing upper secondary school. The fact that you have a driving licence is demanded for several jobs. These are facts, and this is something that has also been put forward by business organisations and employers. That is why the question has been raised by us. We have a consensus with the Left Party that the issue should be investigated in order to find the best design. This is also where we have to conduct a responsible economic policy, which is why I am a little worried when the honourable Member tells me that there are minimal costs. After all, what it should look like depends entirely on the target group and the design. There are also some market-affected things that can occur. If this were to be a general right for everyone and if you could get government loans, there would also be a risk that the costs would increase significantly and that the industry would take the opportunity to charge a higher cost than is legitimate. There is also a risk that this will not lead to the social levelling that I believe Jan Ericson also wants. Loans are still something that discourages households and people with lower incomes more than those with higher incomes. We see this with regard to the usual student loans. After all, this is what we have said we will now investigate and look at. It is important to conduct a fundamental investigation into how this is to be done in order to make it as good as possible. The aim is fully agreed: this will strengthen young people's ability to get to work, and it will reduce the class differences in being able to take driving licences. As I said, however, the scope and design must be carefully examined so that we do not have market distortions or fail to achieve the objectives of the whole reform. My objective is absolutely that we should be able to have the proposal ready before the end of the term of office.
i-738d63fff517557b-285	Mr President, I would like to As usual, we are dealing with the issue of youth unemployment. I find that interesting. It gets a little weird when the government takes credit for the fact that youth unemployment has fallen in recent years. This is not so much because these young people have always found a job, but simply because they have grown older. They are no longer unemployed young people; instead, they are now unemployed adults and have gone over in those statistics. This is entirely due to demographics. In the years that the Alliance ruled, the youth litters were very large, and now they have shrunk sharply. Schools that previously had perhaps five parallel classes today have one class in each year. It shows what a huge change in demographics there has been in young people. It goes without saying that when many unemployed young people of a certain age get older and are counted as adults, youth unemployment also decreases. It is entirely a demographic question. Total unemployment in Sweden has decreased relatively little in the years that the Government is talking about. On the issue of student loans for driving licences, however, we are fairly in agreement. I am absolutely in favour of the idea that we must take responsibility for public finances and that we must combat abuse. That is why I was a little bit concerned with these issues; one has to be careful when designing such a system so that it does not lead to rising costs of taking a driving licence, for example. On the other hand, I do not share the concerns of the Government that this would not seem even-handed. I was responsible for study funding issues in the Education Committee for the Moderates during the last parliamentary term. One thing we very much agreed on, namely that the study funds have a strong equalising effect in all other contexts. It would be weird if they didn't have it when it comes to getting a driver's license. If you have a weak economy, it is obviously easier to take a driving licence if you have the opportunity to borrow from the state. It is a right that everyone receives regardless of economic standards, and also of the favourable interest terms that apply today. I am absolutely convinced that this may provide the opportunity to take a driving licence for many people who might not otherwise have given it priority. Then we also get more people to work. It can be said that it is we politicians who have partly contributed to the cost of driving licences. We have added new elements, new charges and new costs to driving licences almost all the time, and we have often done so in political agreement. This has made driving licences more expensive and more expensive. In part it has been justified for reasons of road safety and so on, but sometimes one might also think that we have made the system a little too bureaucratic and expensive. Then I think that we can also invite and make it possible to meet the costs by introducing student loans for driving licences. I welcome the continuation of the discussion, and I hope that the Government will take some of these ideas with it in its further work.
i-738d63fff517557b-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jan Ericson, for the packages! As far as youth unemployment is concerned, you said in the run-up to the election that when we remove the general tax relief that you had, it would more or less double. It didn't. On the contrary, it has been shown that the measures we are taking have led to a reduction in youth unemployment. It goes without saying that the size of generations varies, but we count youth unemployment as a percentage. It is therefore a part of the group, no matter how large it is. These are the two figures we compare, and not the actual number. Youth unemployment has fallen and is the lowest in 13 years. As I said, a proper investigation is needed to find the design of this. I very much hope that it is as the honourable Member says and that this will have a social levelling effect. It is true that the student aid as a whole has led to more people from working class going on to higher education, for example. However, social mismatches persist, and over the last ten years, the proportion from socially and economically more vulnerable groups to continuing education has not increased. So that's not the whole truth. I think it is important that we both shape this in an economically responsible way and ensure that it has the right effect: it will increase the possibility of getting a job for young people, and it will lead to a levelling out of differences. I welcome the fact that you really do see the need for a proper investigation and that there is no rapid and ill-considered reform. We need both to safeguard the finances of the state and to ensure that the design achieves the objective of this kind of reform.
i-738d63fff517557b-293	Mr President, I would like to I forgot to comment on what this might cost. I wrote about minimal costs. So we are talking about loans in this context; we are not talking about grants. We know that government borrowing today is cheap, which means that costs should be very small. The cost you usually talk about is the possible losses you make when people don't pay back their loans. However, if you have a limited repayment period, you have much better control than with the other student funds, which are paid for in principle throughout your life. There is a much greater risk of losses. The cost of this should therefore be minimal. I am pleased that the Government is pressing so much to take responsibility for the state's finances. I sit on the Finance Committee, and I am rather concerned that Sweden is borrowing money today – quite a lot of money – in the midst of a boom and that the public debt is increasing in a boom, which it does not usually do. It is good if the Government takes this thinking along with it on other political issues in the future. That would be welcome. I can't really let go of this youth unemployment thing. The Government talks about all measures taken by the government to reduce youth unemployment. I am not aware of any such measure at all which has entered into force during this period and which may have had any impact on youth unemployment. The Government will be happy to inform me of this in the closing statement. The only thing I know that has been done is that it has made it more expensive to hire young people. As a result, some employers have hesitated to include summer workers, for example. If the reduction in the social security contribution for young people had been maintained, perhaps even more people would have been able to get to work now that the economic cycle is quite strong. So I am not sure that you can beat your chest and say that it had no effect at all to increase the employers' contribution for young people. In fact, it has made it much more expensive to hire young people unfortunately. I note that everyone from the right to the left is in favour of this proposal. If you make a good proposal, you will surely have broad support in the House of Parliament.
i-738d63fff517557b-298	Mr President, I would like to We can discuss, but the facts are that we had to take over a deficit of almost 70 billion. When you took office eight years earlier, it was a surplus of the same amount. We have worked to make reforms even with a difficult budgetary situation that we inherited after your 140 billion in tax cuts. As I said, economists agreed that that type of general tax relief was not accurate enough, and that is why youth unemployment rose during your time. Instead, individual measures are needed to enable young people to get to work. We are investing in, among other things, a major boost in knowledge, as it now turns out that those who are furthest from the labour market often lack upper secondary education. That is an example. Secondly, the terms of a CSN loan for driving licences are attractive to meet the group which today refrains from taking driving licences for economic reasons, and they need to be reasonable. That is what will determine the cost of this whole reform. Thanks to responsible financial budget work by Magdalena Andersson and the government, we now see that there is room for such a reform. It is important in the continued fight against youth unemployment and therefore very important for the further development of society.
i-738d63fff517557b-302	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has wanted me to clarify how I intend to improve the protection of bluelight personnel, both in order to prevent them from being harmed in their professional activities and so that they can pursue their profession without delay. He has also asked me to clarify how far the announcement of weekend separation with a ankle buoy that Parliament has given the government has come in the process of becoming a law. In both larger and smaller towns around Sweden there are residential areas that have become increasingly affected by crime, social unrest and insecurity. In order to strengthen the judicial capacity to prevent and combat these crimes, the government will take a number of measures, as announced on 17 August. Among other things, a review will be carried out to explore the possibility of faster prosecution. In addition, consideration should be given to the strengthening of the penalties for vandalism offences. In addition, there may be a need for new sanctions for young offenders. The Sanctions Investigation Report New sanctions (SOU 2012:34) proposes a new sanction called youth surveillance. The proposal is currently being prepared and the government intends to come back to this issue. During the summer, the Prime Minister presented a long-term reform programme to reduce segregation. A government delegation is appointed to collaborate with municipalities, civil society, authorities and researchers. The reform programme will run from 2017 to 2025. In addition, the government has intensified the crime prevention work with a national initiative. The Crime Prevention Council (Brå) will develop a national support and coordination function for crime prevention. Brå has also been tasked with identifying measures to combat crime and increase security in socially vulnerable areas and will present its results in November. However, this is a complex problem which must be taken seriously, and so my work and that of the government continue on this issue.
i-738d63fff517557b-307	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation I wrote this summer after the terrible riot that we had in Uppsala on 16-17 July. Cars burned and street stone was thrown. It was also a special occasion when a man alerted because there was a fire, and the fire department was going there. I saw the fire chief later, and he said that normally it would have taken four, maybe five minutes to get there. Now it took 20 minutes, because one could not go up to the house and had to have escorts of police officers with plastic shields. Tragically, the result was that the man who called the alarm died. This led me to ask these questions. What about the protection of blue light personnel? What about the kids? Many of those who committed these crimes were 16 - 17 - year - olds. In many cases there is the feeling that there are no consequences. I think there must be consequences. When you commit this kind of criminal act, it has to be a consequence. Electronic anklet is an example of such consistency. It has now been 18 months since this was voted through and gained a majority in the Swedish parliament, but unfortunately we still have no legislation in place. It would be an important step in the process of holiday separation. In this way it can be a penalty, and in combination with community service it can also speed up the process. On the issue of blue-light personnel, my view is that violence against officials should lead to penalties of at least six months' imprisonment. Today it can be as little as just a fine. We should also change so that more professions, such as civil protection and health care, are given stronger protection against attacks. Violence against alert service personnel could be a new criminal offence. The penalties for crimes such as stoning against the police must be tightened up, and, of course, to prevent calls for action must be criminalised. These are proposals that I would like to receive feedback from the Minister responsible for these issues. How does the Minister see that the electronic anklet that Parliament has ordered is still not delivered? How does he feel about the proposals I mention about more stringent penalties for offences against blue-light personnel? The answer speaks of several new investigations to look at this, but these are concrete proposals to which it would be interesting to have a direct response.
i-738d63fff517557b-313	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of clarity, let me state: It is illegal to attack bluelight personnel – ambulance personnel, police and fire brigade – in Sweden. It is illegal to prevent emergency and relief operations in Sweden, and it is subject to exactly the penalties that the moderate-led government supported by Mikael Oscarsson thought these crimes should have. That must be the foundation. We cannot pretend that it is permitted to throw stones at the police in Sweden or that the alliance government would have accepted it. It's not like that. On the other hand, there is more to be done in this area, and the government has presented a broad package of sharper legislation, faster prosecution and better protection. This also applies to health care personnel and civil protection personnel. I must also say that an important part is the preventive work that has been done with great success in some rescue services in Sweden. It has succeeded in reducing both the number of fires and the number of incidents on the part of the staff in office. So there are two ways to walk, two legs to stand on – to eliminate causes and work preventively and then to hit hard on those who do not understand how the legislation works and how to behave.
i-738d63fff517557b-317	Mr President, I would like to What we have today is not enough. I have close contact with a number of police officers in Uppsala. They feel that there will be some kind of swing door mentality, that unfortunately there will be no penalties for these 16- and 17-year-olds. For example, a 17-year-old was arrested who had a bomb in his hand. He was taken to the police station in Uppsala. But the parents didn't want to get there, nobody from social services wanted to get there and there was no interpreter. The rule of law is such that you had to let him go. In such a situation, one must be able to search the home and put the person in custody. It was an example of how the regulatory framework works. It would be interesting to hear the Minister's answer as to whether it is reasonable for the 17-year-old, in this case, to be released and that a search cannot be made and cannot ensure that the person is detained while the investigation is taking place. If the investigation does not get started properly, it will in principle be impossible to move forward and get a conviction. We must also discuss the major problems that the police have in Sweden today. One alarm report comes after the other. In Uppsala there are major problems with staffing. I think the police reform itself was the right idea. The idea was that there would be more police officers at the local level. Unfortunately, it has not proved to be so, so far. It is a major failure for managers at the police level that it has not been possible to do so. I would like to ask the Minister if we agree that the major problems exist, for example in Uppsala, where one has huge problems in coping with the most elementary emergency activity. The level of wages is also below all criticism. I recently received information about a police officer in emergency services in Uppsala who has worked for eight years and is still at a salary level of SEK 25 100 per month. Is it reasonable that we have such a low payment for a many times dangerous mission? What kind of moves are needed? Is it not time, Minister, to focus on the core business so that there can be more police officers in external service and there can be an emergency capability that is sufficient? If there is no such thing, it is the possibility to investigate and thereby also to proceed to conviction that suffers. Don't you have to face up to the truth, that this in itself was a good idea but that it hasn't been successful and that it needs to be taken care of? I have heard that the Minister has been in on similar thoughts. But it would be interesting to have a concrete answer. Is the Minister prepared to make them involved in the police reform?
i-738d63fff517557b-324	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson, if I count correctly, asks six questions that were not mentioned in the interpellation. I will try to answer them, despite the order of the Riksdag, even if they have not been submitted to the Government in advance. First of all, Mikael Oscarsson asks me to comment on an individual function in Uppsala. According to the government form, I am prevented from doing so. One can question whether it falls to Mikael Oscarsson to comment or review individual prosecutors' decisions. At least it doesn't fall on mine. Mikael Oscarsson then takes up segregation in vulnerable areas. Then let me remind you that the Moderate Coalition Party has today produced a report. They have looked at the period up to 2014, from the entry into force of the Alliance Government until it left power. The report shows that segregation, divisions and exclusion in Sweden increased during your time in power, Mikael Oscarsson. This, of course, means a strain on the police organization, which is responsible for the alliance government's failure with jobs, school and equality. Then Mikael Oscarsson takes up the salary of an individual policeman. The Swedish model is designed in such a way that wages are put into negotiations between employees and employers. But let me cautiously point out that we had a moderate-led government with the Christian Democrats in government for all eight years as the police officer to whom Mikael Oscarsson refers and whom he thinks has far too low a salary. If Mikael Oscarsson was dissatisfied with the salary level then he had every opportunity to influence it. I didn't. I was in opposition here in Parliament. As far as the reform is concerned, in my opinion, we have not seen sufficient results from the major police reorganisation that has been carried out. We have agreed in this House that it should be done. We have agreed on the directives. And we have agreed on the way in which it is to be implemented. I do not think we have obtained the results we are entitled to demand. There are positive examples. Botkyrka has more than doubled the police effort in a socially vulnerable area. And there will be a police station built in Rinkeby with space for over 200 police employees. There are also a number of other positive examples. However, we have still not got enough policemen closer to the citizens, where it is most needed. I am very clear that if this is not the case, we will have to take action. For we are not betraying the objective of the reform – more police officers closer to the citizens, where they are needed at their best.
i-738d63fff517557b-331	Mr President, I would like to The Minister does not like me to take a concrete example. I think it is important to see the reality as it is. And it is important to be able to take an example, which is not the only one, of the fact that the current regulatory framework is not working. You can, in this case, drop a 17-year-old who's been caught with a bomb. I find that unreasonable. It is highly relevant to address this as an important problem. It is also important to get away from the fact that it should always be someone else's fault, that it is the fault of the bourgeois government. We need to see how things are now. It's the same with Dan Eliasson. He blames the politicians. And I have heard that the Minister has previously blamed that the problems in many ways are due to border controls. I'm sure that's a partial explanation. But we cannot be satisfied with the situation we have. The police aren't working. There are alarms coming from Uppsala and from Östergötland that police area after police area has difficulties with the basic core business. Then you have to be sensitive and make sure not just look at it or do any investigation. We know pretty well what's not working. There is very little incentive to make the core business work. That has to change. You have to listen to the alarm reports. Christer Nordström in Uppsala, for example, has been a police officer for 47 years. He feels that it has never been as difficult a situation for policemen as it is now. There's a lot of things that don't work. It is the government and Ygeman who are responsible and must act.
i-738d63fff517557b-335	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I'm a minister. I'm responsible. And I'm acting. But the police organization is not helped by incantations from Mikael Oscarsson. We are helped to find out what has become good and what has become bad. Soon, the first in the series of evaluations that Statskontoret has been tasked with will be doing. If there is a need for that, we will of course take action on the basis of that criticism. I have also made it clear that if there are problems with the way the reorganisation has been implemented, I am prepared to take action. My goal is not to have the world's finest reorganization, but my goal is safer citizens and lower crime. This should also be the focus of Parliament's work. Mr President, I would like to Then Mikael Oscarsson says that I don't like to answer questions about individual cases. No, it's not like that. Mikael Oscarsson has been involved in the Riksdag with an intermediate election to decide on a constitution that prevents the government from commenting on individual acts of authority. If Mikael Oscarsson wants to change that, he may suggest that the Constitution be amended. Then perhaps I can comment on individual cases without receiving criticism from the KU for that. Back to the core question: There are more police workers now than there have ever been. We spend more financial resources on the police than we have ever done. Now the focus must be on making the maximum impact of the resources invested in the police. If there are any corrections to the reform, we are prepared to do so.
i-738d63fff517557b-340	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve police personnel policy to ensure that the police force is not shrinking further. It is the responsibility of the Police Authority to ensure the security of competence for police activities and to decide how individual police areas should be organised and resourced. With regard to the issue of police officers who have left the agency in the last six months, I can see that the staff turnover among police officers is still low compared to the average for Swedish state administration. At the same time, it is of great importance that the Police Authority is a workplace where people seek and want to stay. It is therefore important that the Police Authority acts on the development of staff turnover within the Agency if there are signs of dissatisfaction. The Swedish police have undergone one of the most extensive organisational changes within the state in many years. One of the most important starting points of this transformation is to strengthen local presence and accessibility throughout the country. Local police areas with greater mandates and more resources are therefore at the heart of the new Police Authority. Active work on skills provision based on the needs of the business is, of course, important for such a direction. Statskontoret has been given the Government's mission to follow up on the reorganisation of the police. A first interim report of the up draft must be submitted to the Government by 1 October 2016. I continue to follow closely the work to ensure that the intentions of the reform are fulfilled.
i-KhAr7ZivyddmdJMkAzpibk	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Anders Ygeman, for the answer! Police regulations are clear. Crime should be reduced and people's security increased. Yet that is not what Sweden looks like today. The police's crime clearance is dropping dramatically. Figures for 2015 show that this is the worst clearance in 16 years. Mr President, I would like to The Ygeman Government has stated in its reply that the Swedish police have undergone the most extensive organisational change within the state in many years. One of the most important starting points of this transformation is to strengthen local presence and increase accessibility throughout the country. Local police areas will be given greater mandates and more resources. Yet they are not even allowed to employ themselves; it is managed centrally. A newly graduated police officer can get a service point 400 km from the county, despite the fact that there are vacant services at home. A police officer from one place may not switch to a post in another place with the argument that there will be too few left at the place of origin. Moving around people like tiles in the game Stratego rarely works well in reality. As a result, police officers choose to quit, take leave of absence or otherwise. The police union's membership survey shows that three out of four police officers are considering leaving the police profession and that one out of every four police officers is actively looking for another job. The organisations in which I have worked often talk about staff being the company's most important resource – without staff, no workshop. But then it is also necessary to take care of your staff. Everyone knows how expensive it is to recruit. The working environment is also important for police officers, and the truth is that it has been put at its head. If the police force shrinks at one end, it is of the utmost importance to take measures to stabilise the force and thereby increase it. This calls for action by Minister Ygeman. Mr President, I would like to In his response, I have been told by the Government that he intends to follow the reorganisation work and that he will receive a report in October. Here I think it will be a bit crazy that it will only happen in October when it says in the regulation letter that it will be done continuously during the year. Is that not the intention of continuous follow-up – that you can change course or take action if the ship does not go in the right direction? Mr President, I would like to We're definitely heading the wrong way. The personnel policy for Swedish police officers needs to be improved now. We can't afford cops to stop or even start because of the bad situation. Ultimately, the Government should feel responsible and act accordingly.
i-738d63fff517557b-354	Mr President, I would like to One can discuss whether October was a well-established date for the first part of Statskontoret's evaluation. However, it was the date set by the moderate Minister of Justice in the moderated government to initiate the police reform that was supported by a united parliament. Unlike Alexandra Anstrell, I have no reason to criticise the moderate-led government on this point. Then I want to correct one thing. It is not that the police are getting fewer and fewer, but they are getting more and more. There have never been more police employees in Sweden than now. There's never been more resources spent on the police than now. It is true that clearance results have fallen over a long number of years. I think that was the background to the moderate-led government taking the initiative for the major police reorganisation. It was simply dissatisfied with the falling results that also came, while the Alliance government provided considerable financial resources so that a great many police officers could be recruited. The old organization simply did not measure up, said the Alliance government. And it also meant a unanimous parliament that supported the reform. It must be from that perspective that we look at the reorganisation. We should be humbled by the fact that there may be things that need to be corrected or adjusted. But the basic idea, to move from 21 pilfering to an authority, was probably correct. It was a wise choice to get more efficiency out of the police. Then I can also be critical of what Alexandra Anstrell expresses in terms of a somewhat square staff policy and an overbelief in boxes, patterns and forms when dealing with people. I believe that the evaluation of the police organisation should leave greater scope for local police areas to recruit and for staff to go to the places from which they have been recruited. It goes without saying that those who apply for distance training in the police force so that they do not have to move 400 km after completing the training. Instead, he or she could have moved to attend the training. There, the police authorities need to show a higher degree of sensitivity to the wishes of the individual police women and men. This will also provide a more motivated staff. This is exactly what we will discuss with the police leadership and also with you in the opposition after Statskontoret's evaluation. We agreed that this was the right way to go for the Swedish police. Now we also have a joint responsibility to ensure that the effects that were intended are achieved, namely more police officers closer to the citizens where they are most needed.
i-738d63fff517557b-362	Mr President, I would like to I find it a little strange that Minister Ygeman says in his answer: If there's dissatisfaction, I don't really know how to interpret that statement, because it's pretty obvious to me that there is. According to my experience from the media and member surveys and in contact with the police, there is obvious dissatisfaction. I'm glad that Minister Ygeman now said that he, too, thinks this is a bit square. I very much hope that we can see improvements in this area. Otherwise, it seems that the government has abandoned the ambition to address social problems. We Moderates take this seriously. We see that we are facing major challenges. Cops quit because they no longer feel they can do their job. They have a professional pride and want to do a good job. They are passionate about their work and to make a difference. That's why they once chose to train to be a cop. We Moderates have in our budget investments of 2 000 new police officers for increased security no matter where in Sweden they are. Mr President, I would like to That is why I must continue to say that I am somewhat surprised by the Government's response. I do not think it makes sense to watch passively when, day after day, we get alarms that the police are kneeling and that the police are being harassed, as we talked about here before, and do not get support in their own organisation. What we are seeing now is not acceptable. Mr President, I would like to Anders Ygeman has the ultimate responsibility, just as he has stood here and said in the speaker's chair today. I sincerely hope that he, too, will act on that and will not let the police force shrink.
i-738d63fff517557b-367	Mr President, I would like to The government has acted. We have invested SEK 250 million this year. We have tightened up the security work within the Migration Agency's area, which has been very stressful for police operations, by adding SEK 280 million. We have also reversed developments in the number of asylum seekers and gone from 10 000 new asylum seekers a week in Sweden to 400 – 500. In this respect, the Moderates were not able to take responsibility, but they promised support on Wednesday but withdrew their support on Thursday in a situation where Sweden needed responsibility more than ever before. We have implemented a number of security packages and tightened the legislation to increase security in Sweden – only on 1 July this year, 20 new legislations came into force. And as I said in my previous speech, it is not the case that the Police Authority is shrinking. The police department is growing. We've never had more police employees than we have today. Of course, in a previous year we employed about thirty or forty more police officers than we do today. However, the number of police officers increases and decreases over the year depending on different circumstances. Soon we will again have more police officers than we have ever had before. And there are more police officers today than there were at the corresponding time last year, not less. I think that one should be very careful to use a certain monthly statistics to express one's own political opinion. We're going to have more police officers in Sweden. We will have more police employees in Sweden. We will shortly, when we present our autumn budget, provide information on how we view the need for additional resources within the Swedish police. Within the opposi tion there is an auction of police sites. It started with 1,000 cops. Now it's 2,000. The Center wants $2,500. The Christian Democrats want 3,000. That auction will last until election day. But regardless of the result, it does not solve the problems that Swedish police are facing. During the entire time of the alliance government, you contributed more money, while the results of the investigation fell. There must be more than just additional resources. Otherwise, we risk wasting taxpayers' money.
i-738d63fff517557b-370	Mr President, I would like to There we really agree, Anders Ygeman. It needs more than just increased resources. That is exactly what I am asking for. How, then, can we strengthen the police forces that we have so that they do not choose to stop or do anything else? Police personnel policy needs to be improved. If it is the case that an organisation cannot do it on its own, I think that the Minister who is ultimately responsible must take that responsibility and ensure that the organisation reaches it. We have been told that the Swedish police have undergone the most extensive organisational change within the state in many years. A reorganisation must not take as much effort and time as it has done. I know big companies around the world who make reorganisations that don't take this power and this time. They are not as vulnerable as Swedish police are today. Sweden is left in a precarious position. It is not reasonable that it looks like it does today in Sweden and that we have fewer police – although depending on when you measure. But then where, now is. I believe that this is still a common perception. If you look around you, for example in our sparsely populated area, you can see that the police offices are closed. Then where are your cops, Anders Ygeman?
i-738d63fff517557b-373	Mr President, I would like to As I have previously expressed in the media, I believe that a fundamental explanation for the fact that we have not reached a sufficient degree of police reform is the external pressure we have had. We have had an extensive reception of asylum, the largest in modern times. We have had an elevated terrorist threat at a level that we have never seen before in Sweden. We have had border controls for the first time since 1994. At the same time, we are implementing the largest police reorganisation since 1965. It goes without saying that this puts pressure on Swedish police. I would like to emphasise that I think that very many of the policemen and police women we have in Sweden do an excellent job but far too rarely hear it. Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd make a literary parable. It doesn't belong to everyday life. I quote from the book Police, Police, Potatoes! by Sjöwall Wahlöö. At the same time, the police machinery that was overworked, partly because of staff shortages, but mainly because of other reasons, was gnashing more and more. It was not primarily about getting more policemen but better policemen, but nobody seemed to have thought about that.
i-738d63fff517557b-378	This book was written in 1969, four years after the major police reform was carried out. Anyone who knows their Sjöwall Wahlöö knows that this criticism of the reorganisation goes through all the books. The last book, the terrorists, was probably published in the 80s. I share Alexandra Anstrell's view that we have the right to place high demands on the reorganisation to have a high pace. But we must also understand that a reorganisation of the largest authority in Sweden at a time when we are under extreme pressure from outside will not go completely painlessly.
i-738d63fff517557b-380	Mr President, I would like to I was corrected by the Committee on Defence, which says that it was 1975 that the book The Terrorists, the tenth and last book in Sjöwall Wahlöö's Decalogy, came out. Mr President, I would like to Annika Hirvonen Falk has asked me whether I intend to take measures to ensure that suspected cases of trafficking in human beings with refugee children are investigated by the police. She has also asked whether I intend to take measures to raise awareness and improve the identification of trafficking in human beings with refugee children. The government takes trafficking in human beings and sexual crimes against children very seriously. On 22 June this year, the Government decided on a new action plan to protect children against trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse. As part of this work, the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County has been tasked with conducting a systematic review of cases submitted to the Swedish Police Authority in 2015 and 2016 regarding suspected human trafficking with children. The aim is, among other things, to identify the reasons why so few preliminary investigations into suspected human trafficking lead to prosecution and find ways to improve the investigation work. Furthermore, the 2014 human trafficking investigation is tasked, among other things, with evaluating the application of the provisions on trafficking in human beings offences and reviewing how the law enforcement authorities investigate and otherwise work on trafficking in human beings. The assignment will be presented in October 2016. Unaccompanied children are a particularly vulnerable group for human trafficking, and many children disappear after arriving in Sweden. In order to increase knowledge of unaccompanied minors who disappear, the Government has commissioned the county administrative boards to carry out a national survey of the problem. The county administrative boards shall also propose measures to prevent the disappearance of unaccompanied minors. The Ombudsman for Children has been given a complementary mandate to contribute to a better understanding of why unaccompanied children disappear. It is important for the Police Authority to take the necessary measures to be able to deal with all suspected crimes that come to its attention. With regard to this type of crime, the Head of Police decided in autumn 2015 to strengthen the Police Authority's ability to combat trafficking in human beings. The aim is to increase prosecution by developing working methods, raising skills, creating a sustainable organisation for operational interventions across the country and stimulating increased cooperation with other relevant authorities and organisations. I continue to follow the work of the Political Authority on this important issue.
i-738d63fff517557b-385	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister Ygeman for his reply. It is important and good that the government takes the issue of trafficking in children very seriously, and it is important that more cases lead to prosecution. This is particularly true at a time when we see an increasing number of unaccompanied minors disappearing from the Migration Board's accommodations and there is reason to suspect that some of these children end up in vulnerability and are subjected to trafficking for various purposes. I am convinced that the action plan adopted by the government will have an effect. Evaluations of previous action plans against human trafficking and prostitution have proved effective. But I'm thinking about whether the model of action plans and temporary projects and actions meets the needs that are pointed out in the international evaluations of Sweden's work against human trafficking, which among other things the survey to be done in 2015 – 2016 is a response to. I would like to ask the Government whether he believes that it is sufficient to ensure, even in the long term, the acquisition of knowledge about the situation regarding human trafficking and, in particular, the trafficking of children. The background to my interpellation is that it was reported in the media that in Skåne there were a number of cases of suspected human trafficking that had been noted by the responsible coordinator from the County Administrative Board who worked for the City of Malmö. These reports had not been handled by the police in the manner that can be expected. Although in reality it is rarely as terrible as it is highlighted in the media, it is of course worrying that the interaction between the police, social authorities and actors who are appointed to work with serious crime is limping so that there is a feeling that different actors do not take their share of the responsibility. Here, too, I believe that an action plan that clearly identifies and assigns tasks to several different actors can help each player to take their share of the responsibility in this still very complex problem. It is difficult for any individual operator to remedy.
i-738d63fff517557b-390	Mr President, I would like to Annika Hirvonen Falk asks me whether the measures taken with regard to the action plan and the other measures taken by the various authorities are sufficient. My answer is that they are a good start. We are likely to need to take further steps to cope with the fight against trafficking in human beings and the specific vulnerability of unaccompanied minors. Then we have done a lot of other things: We have introduced new regulations for HVB homes. The National Board of Health and Welfare has decided on new regulations and general guidelines. In April 2016, we had a special course at the Police College. There has been an interactive training on trafficking in human beings available on the police intranet. We've improved the intelligence NOA at the National Operations Department. There is certainly room for improvement both in the work of the Political Authority and other authorities to tackle trafficking in human beings and to improve security and security for unaccompanied minors. As far as the individual case in Skåne is concerned, I am also prevented from responding to that. However, I can say so much that there is an investigation going on in the Special Investigations Department to ascertain whether there has been any misconduct in this case.
i-738d63fff517557b-394	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I am one of the number of politicians and Members of Parliament who are impatient and who want us to have solved the problems even when we first see them. Of course, the starting point is that the evaluations that are being carried out should lead to action in the same way as, of course, the studies on the design of legislation that have now been presented and that will also be presented in the long term can hopefully have an effect. I would like to mention here in particular that I hope that the work of the Sexual Crime Investigation will be taken into account. I believe that the changes announced by the government in terms of both consent and negligence may also prove to be relevant to the demand for trafficking in human beings for sexual purposes. I hope that we will have reason to come back in different contexts with solutions to this serious problem so that we can put an end to organised trafficking in human beings and, in particular, trafficking in human beings with children.
i-738d63fff517557b-397	Mr President, I would like to I understand Annika Hirvonen Falk's impatience. It may also sometimes affect members of the government. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that we have taken a number of concrete steps to actually achieve an improvement in these cases. I hope that we can come back in this House with further suggestions for improvements as to what it is suffering.
i-738d63fff517557b-398	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström has asked me if I am willing to contribute to a steering and regulatory research centre in Säffle and what measures I and the government intend to take that make companies choose to establish and develop their activities in locations such as Säffle instead of leaving the country. Furthermore, Daniel Bäckström has asked whether I intend to visit Säffle in connection with the announced closure. I recently visited Värmland and feel with those who now live in uncertainty about their future – employees, family members and municipal residents. Even at a time when Sweden as a whole is developing strongly and many new jobs are being created, there will be companies that for various reasons announce staff. Ultimately, it is the CCI that decides how and where they want to operate, but I assume that they assume their responsibilities for the employees and the community in which they operate. The government continues its efforts to create the best possible conditions to compete on the world market based in Sweden. The Government conducts an active business policy with a focus on efforts that further improve the company's conditions and increase Sweden's attractiveness for investments with the goal that we will become world leader in innovative and sustainable industrial production of goods and services. Among other things, the government has developed a strategy for smart industry with an action plan of 45 actions. A number of these measures have already started, including the promotion of new industrialisation at regional level. The government has also developed an export strategy and is working towards a more efficient supply of capital for new and growing companies throughout the country. The strategies are developed in dialogue with industry and the social partners. The Government is now also undertaking a comprehensive knowledge transfer with places to, among other things, the University of Applied Sciences, Komvux and Vux in order to strengthen the supply of skills and improve matching in the labour market. The Government will also present a research policy proposal this autumn, where many proposals aim to strengthen research and innovation environments throughout the country. The Government believes that the best knowledge of what needs to be done to develop business in Värmland and Säffle is available in its own region. Therefore, the main responsibility for regional growth resources lies also with the county. Within the Government's policy for regional growth, there are major initiatives ahead that will benefit Värmland and Säffle. In 2016, Värmland will receive SEK 74.6 million for regional growth measures. The funds improve the county's ability to promote structural change and business renewal. During the 2014–2020 programming period, the Regional Fund Programme for Värmland, Dalarna and Gävleborg County comprises approximately SEK 2.4 billion. These funds include actions to help more companies collaborate within clusters and to improve the infrastructure for research and innovation. Efforts are also being made to develop a wider and more diverse business sector to reduce the vulnerability of structural change and to improve the supply of skills. However, it is up to regional decision-makers to give priority to the use of funds.
i-738d63fff517557b-406	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Industry, for that answer. It is a great test for a municipality to lose one of the larger companies that has existed for decades and has both developed its operations and strengthened the labour market, as is the case for Säffle. CCI is one of the companies that develops and manufacture steam and high pressure valves and actuator systems for demanding applications to the power and process industry. It operates worldwide in a very large market and is also part of a group with large contact areas. There is in Säffle what one can describe as a cluster of several companies within this niche that is important for the district but also in the national perspective. They are world leaders in their niche and continue to take market shares at a time when there is a good order situation around the world, not least in the emerging regions of Asia. On Tuesday 16 August came the notice that affected about 110 employees in the workshop. A proposal to move other activities to Karlstad was also announced. It is about nearly 200 jobs. This is justified by price pressure and by being able to reduce costs. Four years ago, in our district, we received an even greater negative message. This was at the time the largest company, Volvo Bussar Säffle AB, which then employed more than 500 people. It told us that they were going to shut down and move production to Poland. This was also done to a large extent in the years to come. It was a huge test for the local labour market and also for the industrial composition. The notice also concerned subcontractors and other activities of other companies that served it with various services. Overall, in four years the picture is that there have been two major negative signs for the labour market. It has also started a lot of local work in broad cross-block collaboration and also cooperation locally, regionally and nationally. I remember how important it was at that time that the Secretary of State on that occasion and also the Minister of Industry immediately contacted him and heard how the work went locally. We were able to coordinate efforts in all areas in order to best manage the situation and also be able to take preventive long-term action. Now the situation is similar. With these experiences, there is a good starting point for further work. But the test is even greater, because it will also affect the labour market, which has recovered fairly these years. It will be negative for those who have already had difficulty entering the labour market. This applies not least from an integration perspective. I share the Minister's view of the manufacturing industry and that the work that we must do together to strengthen the conditions for maintaining, developing and attracting industrial companies throughout the country is extremely important. This means very fine workplaces and opportunities for development and, not least, innovation work around. For Värmland it is the spine along with several industries. It has meant a lot and continues to mean a lot. It is exciting, attractive workplaces that also attract migration. I would like to continue to discuss how the new industrialisation strategy will offer opportunities in the situation that has arisen.
i-738d63fff517557b-417	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Daniel Bäckström for both his interpellation and his commitment not only to Säffle but also to Swedish industry and industrial production throughout Sweden. It's just like he says. It is the backbone of the Swedish economy and represents 77 per cent of Swedish exports. Around 1 million people go to work every day thanks to Swedish industry. But that's not really how it sounds sometimes in the general debate, where one might think that the Swedish economy is only built up by other things. When industry goes well and sells on the world market, it is a major and important engine for other socially important activities but also for small and medium-sized enterprises in local areas. With the uncertainty that exists right now, I really feel with those who are affected but also with the locality and the municipality, which now again faces a very difficult transition period. I very much hope that the company itself will take responsibility for the situation both for the employees and for the transition period. I was in Värmland not long ago. What is going to be a little more difficult in this situation is that in general it is going very well economically in Sweden right now. We see increased investment in business and more jobs emerging. But where such a premonition strikes, it does not help. In that municipality or locality, it does not matter that the business around Sweden flows on if such a notice comes. There will somehow be double realities. We can say here in Parliament that some 120,000 new jobs have now been created since the elections. It doesn't matter very much in Säffle right now in this situation. It's worth remembering. I was actually in Värmland to talk about the tourism industry, which is growing so fast. Värmland is really a pioneer in this. I think that there are two a when it comes to foreign guest nights throughout Sweden. It is an industry that is growing among small and medium-sized enterprises. The tourism industry is also taking a new approach. In municipalities that may not usually have as much growth power and self-confidence, we notice that the tourism industry can be a very important part. During the visit, it was impossible to avoid talking about what happened in Säffle, and we talked about that. I've also questioned myself a little after I was there. I know that constructive discussions are being conducted from Business Värmland, for example, with municipalities and companies to discuss, not least, skills issues. If I have understood it correctly, but Daniel Bäckström certainly knows it for even better, companies have been a little uncertain. The move to Karlstad has been a little motivated by the fact that you are unsure whether you will be able to cope with the competence supply in the company in Säffle in the long term. I think many people in Värmland feel that it is clear that they can solve the skills supply in Säffle. This also applies to the issue of communication and infrastructure and how to resolve collaborations in different ways to ensure that good skills are provided in the long term. This applies to links to universities and perhaps to universities of applied sciences or other efforts that can be made to do it well. I know that they are trying to have a dialogue on these issues. It is clear that it is important to conduct that dialogue now. Now I hardly have time to move on to smart industry and the whole new industrialisation strategy. We have adopted a strategy where we somehow turn the page a little bit. We have to stop talking down Swedish industry. It is incredibly important, and there are opportunities especially today. It's a bit fun to be optimistic now. There are researchers in Sweden who say that 2016 can be the first year when it moves home more production than it moves out of Sweden. It contradicts a little the image found in the media that industry only pulls down and moves out.
i-738d63fff517557b-426	Mr President, I would like to The opportunities to develop and further develop the industry that exists in our locations in the country are huge, not least given the enormous expertise that has been built up over the years. They are specialized and pass their expertise on to future generations. There is a strong commitment to the development and interaction of secondary education in regions, as well as the networking of international networks. This is an exciting opportunity that we must do everything we can to seize. There's going to be a sharp throw sometimes. An action plan to strengthen these areas in the long term is needed, and we work with regionally and locally. This will ensure long-term access, and we must also communicate to owners and investors around the world that there are opportunities in Värmland, with a national commitment that supports this, so that we can ensure the supply of skills. Research centres in various niches, in this case control and control techniques, as well as measurement and control techniques, are essential. In view of the forthcoming research proposal mentioned by the Minister in the reply, it would be desirable to have a link there. There are resources out there in the country and money set aside. These connections would be systematically highlighted, so to speak, to put a good base forward. I know the companies are interested. Worldwide, there is a great deal of commitment to channeling more resources to these areas. Then it is also very important for the government to be involved in this. I note how the government describes how well things are going in different ways. I cannot help but reflect on the overall policy being pursued. It increases the costs for businesses and increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship through budget proposals and decisions. A kilometre tax is discussed and investigated. It is, in many respects, a blow to the countryside, not least to engineering industries, which are very dependent on fast and simple transport, especially by truck. For Värmland, taxation, according to what we have heard from the investigator, SEK 26 per mile, would mean an average increase in cost per truck of over SEK 100 000. It's not immaterial money. The government is talking about improving conditions of competition and strengthening our position in the global perspective. At the same time, however, we are discussing increased costs in this dimension. In November, there will also be a tax on flights announced earlier. It will hit the possibility of transporting both short and long distances. Access to air transport is important for industry. Then there is the sickness pay responsibility, which has been withdrawn. The combined signals from the government – on the one hand, they want to strengthen the business environment; on the other hand, they want to increase costs and reduce the competitive advantages for Sweden – give uncertainty to companies, and it can also add to the image of uncertainty in the group managements around the world that make decisions for companies in our areas. But we will think positively and work actively to secure the conditions. It is about many important jobs and also about opportunities for new innovations around the country.
i-738d63fff517557b-435	Mr President, I would like to I start with the big picture and then narrow the perspective. Sweden is today one of Europe's economic locomotives. Last year we had 4% growth, and this year we will have around 3% growth. It's incredibly good. It is about twice the growth rate of Germany, the United States or the United Kingdom, to name a few of our main competitors. We also see that the labour market is developing very strongly, with 120 000 more people going to work. Youth unemployment is now falling sharply – I think we now have the lowest youth unemployment in Sweden in 13 years. This has happened at the same time as we have removed the tax cut in youth unemployment contributions that the Center Party has pushed for and that cost society SEK 16 billion a year. It had no real effect. It is clear that a government must decide how to compete globally – with knowledge, quality, research, development, modern infrastructure and higher education. Then let's not spend tax money on the wrong things. I believe that the tax cuts that did not lead to a reduction in the youth unemployment rate cost around SEK 11.0 billion. We're spending that money smarter today. We have increased housing construction with investments in infrastructure and better maintenance, but also in major knowledge investments with 50,000 new training opportunities only this year and a continued expansion that will benefit industry in particular. Finally, I would like to say that, although it was not a statement from the Center Party, you were still in the government when we had a Prime Minister who said that Swedish industry was a basicly gone, in Davos. I thought it was incredibly provocative n de. That was the wrong political signal. We say exactly the opposite: industry is the future. It will lead many of the innovations that Sweden will need, not least in the forestry industry, which is strong in Värmland. It can lead the development towards the fossil-free welfare society that we want to create in the future. There are enormous opportunities to develop Swedish industry. Let us look at the concrete measures and what we could do more. Collaboration is the key here, as Daniel Bäckström points out. If we are talking about skills provision, I can say that the university of applied sciences has been a little underestimated as a phenomenon to help and develop industry in the future. When we increase the funding for the university of applied sciences and there will be more places – I think there are 6,000 new places for the university of applied sciences – we see how this affects Värmland. There were 50 percent more training courses this call. Of the nine new ones, six have an industrial focus. I think this is a hugely important signal to the industrial companies in Värmland: there are training courses that the companies themselves have been involved in developing, and we know that these people will only be employed at a slightly higher level in order to develop the business in the future. In a way, the University of Applied Sciences symbolises the collaboration that we need to achieve between industry and the public sector. I understand that the region has also talked about how to work with skills provision linked to Säffle. Is it possible to get the company to rethink the move from Säffle to Karlstad through a better dialogue on skills provision, transport opportunities and other things? I still hope that the best possible situation can be made. I am prepared to discuss further efforts to strengthen the development of industry throughout the country, and of course also in Säffle and Värmland.
i-738d63fff517557b-442	Mr President, I would like to The Minister mentions the importance of the forest industry in Värmland. Then I would like to point out once again the danger of a kilometre tax. It hits the forest industry's conditions directly. It is an extremely important nutrition not only for Värmland but for Sweden as a whole. Youth unemployment is falling. That's very positive. At the same time, as a former municipal politician, I can also say that demography is different now. The hills decrease slightly, at least in many areas. It can vary between urban and rural areas. It is also important to follow what is happening with the economy. It's a good move now, but the question is what the order mode looks like in a longer perspective. In a year's time, I really hope it lasts. However, we must strive to create incentives for continued order intake. I would like to conclude by summarising the three questions I asked. I note that two of them have not yet been answered. Grum municipality is our neighboring municipality. It's about 20 miles between the resorts. I think that a visit from the Minister for Economic Affairs at home in Säffle to those affected by the company would be extremely welcome. I would like to invite the Minister of Economic Affairs to the CCI to discuss the conditions for the future and to discuss with our companies in control and control technology the possibilities of developing research on the ground in order to strengthen the presence and scope of these companies in the long term in a Swedish and an international perspective. We're going to have an exciting time. Properly managed, with a good policy that creates long-term conditions, we will also see more industrial jobs in Värmland and all over Sweden.
i-738d63fff517557b-448	Mr President, I would like to I also thank you for the interpellation debate. I look forward to continuing to discuss the importance of industry in Sweden, not only in Värmland but for our entire country. The 45 actions of the Action Plan for a Smart Industrialisation Strategy are the first step. We will continue to work on this all the time. We believe that this is a smart policy for increasing competitiveness. The big question, of course, is when there is a research and innovation bill. I hope that people will see that the logic and strategy we have chosen in the action plan will also be reflected in the research and innovation bill. The question of how to interact with industry on research and innovation issues, how to work with test beds to develop next generation products and services, I hope will lead forward. I also hope that we can have a discussion on skills provision. It is a little early to say how research funders like Vinnova or the Swedish Research Council would take a position on an application for a research centre in Säffle. But there is a lot of regional funding for innovation and skills provision. There is regional muscle mass to work with to develop regional business. That's how we want it. I believe that both the Social Democrats and the Center Party want it so that much of the local and regional growth policy must be conducted on the basis of its own conditions, that it is not Stockholm that should find out what Värmland or Säffle should prioritise. There must be a regional aspect that weighs heavily on developing the business. I will continue to follow this issue closely. Above all, I look forward to returning to the industrial policy of a growing industry in Sweden. I believe that both production and the number of employees can grow in the future.
