i-d9bba3683cb937ff-7	Madam President, I would like At the outset, I would like to say that we have no reservations on this matter. For our positions, I refer to our specific opinion. Madam President, I would like I must admit that last Tuesday I was almost uncontrollably happy when the result from PISA came. I became a teacher, a politician, a citizen of the country of Sweden and, not least, a mother of three children in primary school, all in a blessed mix. It was very pleasing in every respect. I felt such a relief and joy that this day we could focus on everything positive and pleasing in the Swedish school instead of being terrified of everything negative. I was happy that my talented former teacher colleagues could celebrate and carry their heads extra high. All parents who were concerned could feel relieved and happy. All students could feel confident about the school that, according to the measurements, they feel more motivated about. PISA's importance should not be exaggerated, but I believe and hope that the positive trend break in this measurement will be beneficial for Swedish school and for Swedish education debate. We have every reason to be happy and proud of the Swedish school now that both Timss and PISA have pointed to a positive development and a turn in the results. This is a huge victory for all students, teachers, school leaders and parents around the country. But this is also a confirmation of how important it is to focus on knowledge in school. Even in the time of joy, it is important to be together and not lose sight of the factors that have contributed to the positive development we are enjoying. It is therefore important – more important than ever – that we continue to work on the reforms that have proved to be working. Madam President, I would like We must continue to be careful in our analyses of school challenges and aware of what needs to be done. Few factors are as important as teachers. We need more skilled teachers in the Swedish school. Together, they can tackle the problems we face. This is all the more important when we have a large number of newly arrived children and young people of school age who also need a good school. In order for us to have more skilled teachers, we need to improve teacher training. On average, the good people who today study to become teachers receive about eight hours of teaching a week. This is far too little in view of the responsibilities these individuals will then shoulder. The Moderates therefore propose an increase of 50 percent in teacher-led teaching time. To get more people to want to become teachers, and to increase the status of the teaching profession, pay is obviously important. I can only regret that the government has not chosen to continue with the career service reform for which the previous alliance government worked hard and which has also had an effect. Instead, the government has chosen to introduce another model, which has proved to have very unfortunate consequences. I would like to stress here that we Moderates are behind the raise in the amount of money spent. But we are very concerned about how this raise has been implemented in practice. To this the government now leaves Svarte Petter to the municipalities and claims that the municipalities will compensate those teachers who did not receive the teacher's salary lift. This is a tough task for many small municipalities with a weak economy. In addition, I do not think it is fair for the government to come and assert this. Many municipalities are rightly upset by the statements of the responsible minister. What is happening now is that the mobility that we have seen among teachers is increasing, with the result that more and more students are meeting new teachers more and more often. Instead, we Moderates want to invest more in career services and expand this. We are convinced that clear career opportunities in all schools lead to reduced mobility, as teachers see long-term benefits in staying at the school where they are. Increasing the number of skilled teachers with increased salaries will most likely contribute to raising the status of the profession, which is extremely important. Madam President, I would like As we all know, mathematics is a very important area. There, Swedish students' knowledge has gone in the wrong direction for a long time. Therefore, it is extra fun to see the improvement that Swedish students have made in mathematics. The fact that both PISA and Timss have shown this improvement is likely to indicate that the Mattelift, introduced by the Alliance, has had an effect. We still have a long way to go before, for the sake of the students, we can feel satisfied. Important to continue the improvement in math is also the increased number of math hours that the Alliance introduced for primary school and now forced the government to complete in grades 4 to 6, starting this autumn. We Moderates believe that the next step is further improvement in mathematics. To achieve this, we want to see an extension of one extra hour a week in high school. As I said, it is important not to relax in the moment of joy but instead to focus. It is therefore worrying that the government is not in the same line. Why has the government voted against any investment in mathematics that the Alliance has wanted to implement? And why did they vote against the possibility that even grades 7 - 9 this autumn could have had more math? Every lost year is a failure, and responsibility falls heavily on the government. School work is an extensive work in which we must all apply a broad perspective. That is why there are many specific areas in which we must continue to improve. For example, Swedish students spend less time in school than students in many other countries, which is something that is likely to have had an impact on the negative results we have seen up to now. We Moderates believe that Swedish students need more time with skilled teachers. We therefore propose that the school day be extended by an additional hour per day in primary school. Madam President, the government is also saying no to this. If students are to have more time with skilled teachers, these teachers, in turn, must be able to free up more time for teaching, which they are struggling with today. Too much time is spent on administrative tasks. In order to relieve the teachers, the Moderates propose to introduce teachers' assistants. In addition to the many positive messages we received from PISA, there was also a statement that equivalence in the Swedish school has deteriorated. Overall, the difference between low- and high-performance students has increased slightly, and the family background has increased in importance. This is a very sad development. Madam President, I would like All students have the right to a good school and a good education. No one has the right to subject students to poor education, and this applies regardless of which principal we are talking about. It is unacceptable that we still have schools where more than half of the students fail to meet the knowledge objectives. Furthermore, it is worrying that these schools are allowed to continue their activities year after year, even though they do not improve their performance. We Moderates are therefore convinced that there is a need for zero tolerance to bad schools. Finally, a good school is the basis for our children to have a good life, so that they can realize their dreams and contribute to our common good. It is therefore important that we now focus on the right things and, with the positive results from the last few weeks' measurements in our backs, double our efforts for Swedish schools. The year ended well, and I know that I share the joy of this with all my colleagues in the committee. Finally, I would like to wish them, the ministers, all teachers, principals, all other school staff and all students a really merry Christmas and a happy new year. I would also like to wish Madam President the same.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-33	Madam President, I would like What would be a budget debate before Christmas without a change of line with Camilla Waltersson Grönvall? It is nice to start a budget debate in a positive tone. Let us hope that we can keep it not only in this budget debate, but that it can be a turnaround in the entire school debate, because I believe that motivation and the positive picture can bring us much good. However, I could not help but note that it was 6 minutes and 42 seconds into the speech that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall mentioned the lack of equivalence and felt that this was worrying. It did not follow any direct analysis of, or proposals for, any change in equivalence. I myself will return in my speech to how I see the issue. And I'm a little curious about how Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and the Moderates view the fact that equivalence is decreasing, that differences are increasing and that we are actually below the OECD average in terms of compensating for unequal conditions. Given that you also remove S's grant for best school and national school development programs, it is a bit difficult to see how we can reverse the trend we have seen. I would also like to add the question: bad schools do nobody want? My thinking is whether a bad school is a school where the students do not get qualified enough or if it is a school where the students underperform in relation to their expected possible achievements.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-37	Madam President, I would like One of the most important things that the Alliance government did was that we re-focused knowledge in Swedish schools. Not least from the fact that I have worked in Swedish schools since the beginning of the 90s and still have a lot of contact with colleagues and schools around the country, it is clear that there is a big difference today when you visit a school. You can't visit a school – I don't think Lena Hallengren can do that either – who doesn't have an enormous focus on results development, on students having good knowledge, that there is a knowledge focus. This has been an important part of the work of the Alliance Government. I think it should be allowed to feel really happy, because it is very positive that there has now been a trend break in Swedish school, that the results have improved, although everyone here should be very aware that we have a long way to go. But much more is needed. And there is no politician who can be satisfied that equivalence is decreasing. This means, of course, that a great many efforts are needed. There is a need for continued support, an early support. Therefore, we are particularly pleased that in the grade agreement with the government, for example, we received mandatory assessment support in math and Swedish for children in grade 1. We believe in discovering especially those children who need special support as early as possible, but also those who are good and need greater challenges. So it's good for all children. It is about knowledge monitoring, where I am concerned that the government now says it wants to remove the national tests in grade 3. These are among the tests that I think are absolutely most important for an early knowledge follow-up. This helps not least those children who need extra support from the school.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-42	Madam President, I would like I will return in my speech to a number of the points raised by Camilla Grönvall here. But since it's my line shift, I'd like to follow up on my question. After all, it is not enough to be concerned and say that you should have more national tests or a little more follow-up. How are we going to get a more equal school? Now that Sweden is below the OECD average, it is not enough that we have national tests, or mandatory diagnostic tests before each semester starts, but what is needed are resources that enable semi-classes and two-teacher systems. It enables smaller classes, different forms of support and, which is the purpose of S's involvement for the best school, to have additional resources. Then I mean a lot of extra resources for students who really need it. I want to give Camilla Waltersson Grönvall a chance to develop how equivalence in Swedish schools will increase. How should we ensure that we do not have schools where 50 – 70% are not eligible? It is not enough to say that they should be closed or that the Swedish National Agency for Education should take over the responsibility to run them. How are we going to make sure that these students don't go to school for three, four, five years first without being qualified? It is also possible to spice up the question of how long a free school should go with profit before it should not be allowed to profit anymore and before the Swedish National Agency for Education should take over responsibility. Again: How will equivalence in Swedish schools increase?
i-5PphBfBRwnKQg545fNv6dQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for the questions! This is an important debate that I believe, suspect and know we will be conducting quite intensively in the coming years, because this is where we need to focus. Initially, I would like to say that it is important that we build on what has been the cause of the good knowledgeable results. And there I believe in more teaching time in relation to what everyone is talking about as one of the great success factors behind the positive result, namely the Mattelift. That is to say, it is skills development that we need to invest in. For example, we Moderates have proposed that each teacher should be entitled to an individual competence development plan. There are knowledge contracts, the new mission for the School Inspectorate, so extremely important. You get the knowledge contract when you don't perform well enough. When it comes to students who are not given sufficient knowledge is one of the most boring examples Gothenburg, where Lena Hallengren's party colleagues have ruled for a very long time and where it continues to be distressing results. You let students down. The difference between collaboration for better schools, which I think is a positive initiative, and our knowledge contracts is that collaboration for better schools meets quite few schools compared to what our knowledge contact would do. It also means having to comply with the resources and opportunities that we provide through the knowledge contract. Of course, good teachers are important and have the opportunity and time to see each child. There, teachers' assistants play an important role. I would also like to return to the early assessment support in grade 1. I believe that this will be crucial for all children to be seen from the outset and given the right support.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-52	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for your first positive contribution to the debate. For me, this debate is particularly exciting, because it is my first budget debate as a minister. I was going to follow up on what Lena Hallengren asked about, namely the important issue of equivalence in the Swedish school. I think there were many of us who were very happy when the Timss and PISA results came. But there were also many of us who were very concerned about the strong signals sent out by the OECD in terms of equivalence. I now hear that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is also concerned about equivalence. It is welcome, but it is surprising that these concerns come so late. For a number of years, we have received many reports of impaired equivalence and inequality in the Swedish school. I won't take time to list all the reports, but there's a lot of them. On the part of the Moderates, I have noted a rather small interest in the reports, rather an interest in taking permission from them, explaining them away and talking about other things. It is welcome, Camilla Grönvall, that you are now taking equivalence seriously, but that insight must also be followed by actions. Now I heard from Lena Hallengren that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall wants to place much of the discussion on equivalence into various forms of efforts to strengthen teaching. And I'm totally in on it. I absolutely agree that efforts to strengthen the quality of teaching and to strengthen teaching in such a way that the focus really becomes on improved knowledge results is hugely important for Swedish schools, and perhaps most importantly for those students who have the greatest need. But, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, what are you thinking about with regard to system issues?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-58	Madam President, I would like I welcome Minister Ekström to the first debate in this House. It is fun to have the Government in this important discussion. If the Government has felt a concern about the Moderates' commitment to non-equivalence, the Government may feel calm. There is no need for the Government to be concerned about that. We Moderates have always protected that all children should have good conditions, and we are well aware that it is at school these conditions are given. The school's compensatory role is very important. Not least in my role as a teacher, I have worked all these years to compensate for and strengthen those children who are not well placed. We know that children who come from backgrounds with more support can survive in the vast majority of systems. But the children who don't need the school to work intensified around, and there are a number of different things we're going to do there. My concern about the Social Democrats and the government is about a lack of focus on knowledge. I believe that the basis for giving these children a good life is to give them the skills to equip them for the future. When I see how the government is failing in its knowledge focus, I can feel deeply concerned and want to address the question back to the Government. In what way do you intend to continue to strengthen the knowledge school of the Alliance Government, keep the focus on knowledge and continue to enable each child to acquire the knowledge they need to have a good future?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-64	Madam President, I would like The government does not need the efforts of the alliance government to continue with knowledge. Knowledge should be in the overall focus of the school's activities. The biggest losers when the school is unable to ensure that all students receive strong learning are the weakest students, those who come from home where they do not receive such strong support. These students need the school most. When I say this, I make myself a spokesperson for a strong tradition of knowledge with roots in the labour movement that lies behind the Social Democracy but also in the movement that exists in our sister party Environmental Party. It is a party that has always been strong on the basis of knowledge. I am proud to represent a progressive view of knowledge and intend to fight for an equal school of knowledge. A knowledge school should also be equal and should be available for students who have the greatest need. In its report, the OECD states that the social background of pupils is playing an increasingly important role in their results. The OECD also writes in its report on PISA that Sweden is among the countries in the OECD where the difference between high-performance and low-performance students is greatest. It is a sub-grade for an equal school of knowledge. The OECD notes that there is a lot of concern about system issues. It's about our school team, it's about how we've arranged our school selection system and it's about how we've allowed our school to be very driven by market thinking. I find to my great surprise that the OECD is making itself a spokesperson because we must not only review our teaching methods but also carefully reform your school system, with a focus on the school law.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-68	Madam President, I would like There's a lot I wish the government did differently. So far, Anna Ekström and the government have not responded to the matters that are important. The teachers are the most important tool we have in Swedish schools, and we need to give them better conditions. When we see that teacher training lacks the conditions needed to train better equipped teachers, we suggest more teacher-led time on teacher training. Then the government responds in silence. When the OECD points us out as a country where the best-sent teachers do not teach in the toughest challenge areas, the government chooses to remove the first teachers in the exclusion areas. But I think it is important to also direct the financial incentives to these teachers. We have also made an effort at Teach for Sweden in terms of the biggest deficiencies and that specially recruited people go to exclusion areas. I can list a number of different measures. It is also about giving more teaching time. It would be interesting to hear in the Prime Minister's main speech how the Government views this with more time. Of course, quantitative time is not the whole solution, but getting more time with a skilled teacher is likely to mean a great deal to those children who are not well off from home. It will be interesting to hear in the Government's main speech how the Government wants to develop changes in school law, in the free school elections and so on, because I was convinced that the Alliance and the Government agreed that we should have free school elections in Sweden.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-76	Madam President, I would like We will not be taking part in the decision today, but we support our particular opinion. That's because the economy isn't right. As everyone knows, both Timss and PISA have arrived. They show that the case in the Swedish school has been slowed down. However, since all measurements have been made before the autumn of 2015 when 70 000 children were inserted into the Swedish school system, I wait to shout hurrah until December 2017 when the surveys from Pirl and ICC will come. However, the question arises as to whether Sweden should be content with being a mediocre country in the OECD. Madam President, I would like Point measures introduced in the years 2007-2012, i.e. mostly during the time of the alliance government, are starting to have an effect. It's about the math lift, the reading lift, teacher research schools, salary initiatives and so on. All of these have as a common factor that an investment in the teachers' colleges has an effect on the students long-term. This is something our Shanghai model captures on every level. The model invests not only on one subject and a few teachers but on the whole college and all subjects. It's not rocket science, but it's nice to finally see it. Now we want to use this evidence to stop experimenting with the Swedish school. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago Ekot asked me what is the single most important question for the school. My answer was that it is a long-term school policy. This is the most crucial factor for all the top countries in all surveys. The Government of Fridolin does not seem to have understood the importance of the reports that are coming. The days before Almedalen 2017 the School Commission will release its report, and I suspect that Almedalen will be about school alone. Let all of us politicians meet and get along. Finland did so in 1985 and is now top five in all results. There, three different piles were created. A high for – excuse the swearing, Madam President – never in the hell that we can agree, a high for, we already agree and a high for, we cannot agree on that now, but we sit down and discuss it. This provides a long-term school policy, and that is what school's future is all about. Madam President, I would like Future proposals should be based on research and experience and not on ideological whims. As a teacher for many years, I have seen what time it takes to implement new reforms. New reforms will not take place for teachers and students the day after we have voted them through here. They'll take time. It takes about three four years before they land in a workshop for teachers and students. I do not intend to tear up what works, but I will always act vigorously if money, students and colleagues are abused. Madam President, I would like Our proposals are based on 15 years of conversation in the coffee room, and I will continue to talk with my colleagues, who live in reality and not in our sheltered workshop here. We can see it as a three-step rocket. Several parties, like us, have talked about nationalising the school, but have avoided the question of how it should be done. I'm going to take the chance to quickly go through this. But first we need to know which pillar the school is on. The pillars we stand on are a working career staircase – we choose to call it the Shanghai model – and a working environment for teachers and students who are worth going to work for and where you have the opportunity to learn. Sound, light, air and the surface around the students and teachers are powerful influence factors. There should be preparation school for new arrivals coming to Sweden, where there is a chance to land before you are thrown into the Swedish school system and where there is a curriculum developed, which it does not today for the preparation classes. Around the staff I have talked about before, and I will not stop mentioning them until the municipalities ensure that they are reinstated. The municipalities have removed curators, school nurses, caretakers, school doctors — all those who allow teachers to be teachers. We need to deploy resources here. As far as digitalisation is concerned, we cannot wait until 2022 for a report on it. That's beneath any criticism. To get back to nationalization, we believe that there should be a Shanghai model with government governance and responsibility. There should be digital meeting platforms where the state drives education and development forward, a national data bank with recorded lessons, a two-year upper secondary school with the chance to read further if you want – not everyone wants to study three years – a preparatory school and a curriculum. There will be a qualitative review, and the teaching colleges will be merged, as the Moderates did. We can't let just anyone in the teaching colleges, and we can't have just any quality of teacher training. This has also been emphasised by the OECD. Perhaps joint national tests should be introduced on teacher training, where once a year one can check the progress of the different schools and see if there is a school that is constantly underperforming. If the resources and things put in aren't enough, maybe it's time to merge. There should be a mandatory aptitude test on teacher training to see if you are suitable as a person to step in as a teacher – not cognitively but socially – state appointed principals via academy schools and an SYV platform with a maximum number of children per SYV. There is also another point that we in the Swedish Democrats have mentioned, and that is that we want to come back to the school of opportunity. We can't just have a negative view of the Swedish school. In a school of opportunity, however, there must be the opportunity to choose as a student. We believe that general and special mathematics, Swedish and English should be reintroduced. The course grades should be removed and subject grades for upper secondary school introduced instead. The language introduction that exists today is not divided by whether you have attended primary school or not. There we put in people who are illiterate together with people who have attended primary school. It's not working. When we talk to the teachers, they say that it would have made their everyday life a great deal easier if these two groups had been divided up. We also want to ensure that autonomy is increased, Madam President. We want to reduce the ability of local politicians to poke at a detailed level. I understand that we politicians are easily getting into this, but we should not be doing it. It is the teachers and principals who know the profession best. Let them do the work! We want to have the opportunity to introduce emergency schools, we want to invest in round staff so that self-government increases and we want to set up a state fund for rural schools. When the number of pupils dips temporarily in a rural school, municipal officials are usually given the opportunity to close the school. We are strongly opposed to this. We want to ensure that there is a government fund where money can be collected to temporarily save the teachers who are out there, so that they can continue to be employed until more students arrive. We also want to ensure that principals do some of their service in the classroom. If you are going to sit and decide in the Swedish school system you should know how it looks in the classroom. 50 percent of today's principals are teachers, but 50 percent are not. We would like the grades of newly arrived students to be presented separately, for a simple reason. At present, teachers with a certain number of students can get bids from the headmaster not to give them grades, because as soon as a grade is given, the other 15 grades are counted, which means that the school's results dip. I know of teachers who have been instructed by their principals not to grade students until they have received enough grades. This is all wrong. Let us give a positive account of the recent arrivals' ratings. Let the results and methods of the schools that succeed with the new arrivals spread across Sweden instead of getting stuck with the same person. With this, Madam President, I would like to wish the whole of Sweden and everyone sitting in here a Merry Christmas.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-107	Madam President, I would like I noticed at the outset that Stefan Jakobsson wants to wait to take out too much of the analysis of PISA and the turnaround until the overall reception of refugees has had its full effect. I understand Stefan Jakobsson wants to wait. The information is that it is newly arrived students who have raised the PISA results so far. The likelihood that they will not be able to do so in the future is not so great. Rather, it depends on what conditions we give them. Another thing I feel obliged to mention is the fact that we are already showing the grades of new arrivals. Up to four years in Swedish school you will have to report separately. It is very wise, and there I want to give Stefan Jakobsson the right as well as everyone else who understands that it would be unwise to add grades and eligibility rates for students who have just arrived in Sweden. But as I said, that is already being done today. Those statistics are easy to find. It is wise to want a long-term approach to school policy. It would be extremely desirable if we could get there. But to close down the mother tongue support, to say no to the teacher's lift, not to want a primary school venture, to want special schools for new arrivals, to introduce emergency schools, to cut the funding for 22 of the higher education institutions, to reinstate two-year high school and also to reduce 26 billion to the municipalities does not sound long-term in my ears. It sounds difficult to manage the school in the long term then. It's hard for me to see how a teacher should think. Will they be allowed to maintain their wage increases and their colleagues? I can promise that 26 billion less to the municipalities will have major effects, or what does Stefan Jakobsson think?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-111	Madam President, I would like If we start with why I want to wait, that's quite right. When it comes to the new arrivals who have come to Sweden, colleagues say, if you go out and visit a school in reality, that it is not resources for the new arrivals that are the problem. The problem is that they have not been given the resources for the other students. Today, resources are being taken from existing students and the new arrivals are being turned on. There are no resources to pick from, but then you put them where it is most catastrophic at the moment, namely on the new arrivals who have entered the Swedish school system – 70 000 children. Children with reading and writing difficulties who have previously had help and support do not receive this to the same extent. For this reason, I am afraid that future results will not show as positive an effect as we have now seen. However, I would like to give the Alliance credit for having implemented a certain number of things. The problem is that this has been done on a point-by-point basis. I want to do it completely, with the Shanghai model. Lena Hallengren took up all the different bets where we withdraw, but of course we make bets instead of them. We choose to call them other names, but we put in the exact same money. It makes very little difference between our budget and the government, but we move the money to things that we think are more effective. That is why I think we can leave that discussion behind. Then comes this bad argument again, Madam President, of 26 million which we are drawing away from the municipalities. I thought my party leader Jimmie Åkesson had been clear about your party leader, Lena Hallengren, but obviously the token did not fall all the way down with the Social Democrats. This discussion is, to put it bluntly, ridiculous. We're not taking anything from the municipalities. The things that we think no longer cost money – at least not if we had the power – we remove. There is no small investment in the municipalities at all.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-118	Madam President, I would like I don't know who the token doesn't fall down. If the expenditure category 16 has minus SEK 947 million, it is clear that it has effects on the school. If you take away 3 billion in teacher's salary and do something else with the money, will the teachers who have received a salary increase still expect to receive the money? How does Stefan Jakobsson mean? Sometimes you don't know which end to start. Minus 26 million – it would be interesting if Stefan Jakobsson could devote his last reply to explaining what costs the municipalities will be able to get rid of. Tell us what happens when municipalities save 26 billion on reduced immigration, reduced migration and reduced reception of refugees! How will municipalities save 26 billion? I would like to inform you that the whole of Category 16, from pre-school to research, covers 74 billion. That puts 26 billion in perspective. If you remove Collaboration for the best school – 100 schools are part of such collaboration today – and if you remove national school development programmes and all the other things I mentioned, it is clear that it has effects. But please develop how reducing immigration will have these immediate effects, and what it does to a country where we have a labour shortage of about 65 000 in the coming years. As far as long-termism is concerned, I hope that Stefan Jakobsson and his party friends understand that if you just take away the money, put it somewhere else and rename it and they can no longer be used for the intended purpose, it is clear that it will be an extremely short-term policy. I would like to ask the question once again: in what way is it long-term to withdraw all this money? How will municipalities save SEK 26 billion? Please try to explain this to me.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-125	Madam President, I would like I'm going back to something that's quite interesting. We were given a presentation by the director of the Public Employment Service. He was very clear about the labour shortage that exists. If we look at what unemployment looks like for domestic and foreign born, it makes a huge difference. It turns out that in the case of unemployment, there are not a few per cent differences between foreign born and Swedish born, but it differs tens of per cent between foreign born and Swedish born. To then stand here and say that if we push in even more people who are born abroad with wrong education for the Swedish system, it would lead to us being able to get to the job shortage is completely wrong. But if we really are to be honest here and put our hands on our hearts like this at Christmastimes, I can say that if there is something we are doing wrong here in Sweden, Madam President, it is always the same, namely that we should constantly invent the wheel ourselves. If, instead, we choose to look at the three countries that are actually top in terms of results, they have something in common, and that is that they have made sure to invest in teachers. By investing in teachers, it has been ensured that students have developed tremendously over a period of 5 to 15 years. Why, then, should we invent our own solutions? Why can't we take a complete solution, implement it in Sweden, adapt it to the Swedish system and make it work? We now see that the efforts made on the teachers' colleges in 2007-2012 have actually been effective. That is what I think we should sit down and discuss. Let us put the party political views aside and actually focus on the school for the good of the school. I wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-130	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I find it very strange that a party like the Swedish Democrats and its representative on the Education Committee, Stefan Jakobsson, is talking about suitability tests for school staff and teachers. In view of the party to which he belongs and given the degree of suitability of the members of this party to sit in the country's highest decision-making body, it becomes rather ludicrous. My question is really about something else. It is about the joy calculations of the Swedish Democrats in terms of the budget and about profits in welfare, which I will return to even more times in even more debates. When it comes to the profits, we know that the Swedish Democrats for the elections fooled their voters. They claimed that the Swedish Democrats are on the welfare side, on the school side, on the students' side and that they want a school that some capitalists should not earn as much as possible. Then we saw that public opinion changed a little bit within the Swedish Democrats, but mainly within the party leadership. After a few dinners with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and some companies, welfare actors, the Swedish Democrats were suddenly no longer against profits in welfare but vice versa. The Swedish democrats have also gone out and said that they do not believe that there should be any restrictions in the profit draw for welfare actors. Then the question is, Stefan Jakobsson : Do you think it is fair to the voters that the Swedish Democrats have lied in this way? Do you think it is appropriate, in terms of suitability and suitability tests, that such high-ranking politicians in this country lie to the voters in the face of what they really stand for?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-135	Madam President, I would like I repeat what has been said, but I do not really know in which end to begin. But I start at the end that Daniel Riazat started, with the fitness level. Do we have representatives who have done less successful things? Yes, we do. Has the Left Party representatives who have done less well and even been convicted of things? Yes, they have. That is why I think we should put that discussion aside. Don't throw stones in glass houses! Thank you, Daniel, for giving me the opportunity to actually explain how we think about profits in welfare. My six-minute speaking time was not quite enough for me to go deeper into this discussion. We intend in future, if we may, to ensure that those free schools who want to make a profit first have to put away money into a buffer. Not many free schools have closed down. I think it's even one, and there was a note on the door on Monday: Thank you for this time. Then the students had to go to a municipal school. So we want them to put money away for a buffer. This buffer should be large enough to allow all students to complete their semester with the existing team. By enabling students to finish their semester, they also give municipalities time to react, hire people and prepare space, simply. But, as I said, it's a free school that I know has ever been shut down. Maybe Daniel Riazat has more information than I have. Madam President, I would like When it comes to putting words in the mouth of other people, I do not know how many times Daniel Riazat has done so. But in these times, I can say one thing: Daniel, bear in mind that Santa hears when you lie!
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-142	Madam President, I would like I stopped believing in Santa Claus many years ago, but I guess Stefan's still there. I would like to repeat once again the question of profits. Here the representative of the Swedish Democrats, Stefan Jakobsson, is trying to get away with the fact that they have lied to hundreds of thousands of voters right in the face. After a few fine dinners and trips, they have simply chosen to side with the capitalists. Not that I believe that the Swedish Democrats have ever stood on the side of the people, but at least rhetorically they had a different direction before the elections than after the elections. I would also like to talk about something else. The Swedish Democrats talk a lot about students with foreign background pulling down school – refugee children pull down the Swedish school. They talk about these students not becoming part of society etcetera. Are the Swedish Democrats even interested in anyone from another country becoming part of this society? Looking at the Swedish Democrats' budget, it is very clear that on budget line after budget line where people with foreign background are affected, the Swedish Democrats want to reduce or completely remove this budget line. We can see that it concerns native language teaching, study guidance in native language and other issues and subjects that are important for foreign-born pupils. Then the question is: Why do the Swedish Democrats say this? Well, as usual, it's about the right-wing party, the Swedish Democrats, wanting to take away the focus from the fact that they really want to cut back on welfare and that it's not really about those with foreign backgrounds but that they have to find something where they can divide people. And right now it's about the new arrivals that came last year. Next year it will be about something completely different for the Swedish Democrats but something that has to do with people who look like me again.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-147	Madam President, I would like I can inform Daniel Riazat that the Swedish Democrats actually have more people who look like you – whom I choose to call foreign born – as representatives in the municipal council than the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. If you are going to direct this criticism towards any party, you can start by aiming in another direction. I would then like to congratulate you, Daniel, on the fact that you just ruined Christmas for 500 000 children. I believe in a lot of things. I believe in Sweden above all, and I believe that we in Sweden have a good tone against each other. As for the dinners and trips that we have apparently made, it is probably something that Daniel Riazat knows more about than I do. I have never been to such dinners or made such trips. I do not know whether the leadership of the party has done so either. But it is possible that Daniel Riazat is in the party leadership in secret. I have no idea. Why, Daniel Riazat, are we doing this cutback? I will explain to the Swedish people who are watching this. Let's make it very simple. It is because we are lowering this level to exactly the same level that all of Sweden's poor pensioners live on. That's the level we're pulling down to. It should not be luxurious and tossed out money to various entities that will take care of new arrivals. You throw money into holes where they just disappear. We want everyone who comes to Sweden to have the same level as Sweden's poor pensioners – something Daniel obviously doesn't care very much about.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-152	Madam President, I would like There was a time in world history when ship captains struck down and kidnapped people to bring them with them as crews on the trade routes. The ships were often on their way to Shanghai, and it is because of the events we have been given the expression. I think you should be a little careful when in politics you allow yourself to be shanked by Chinese politics and Chinese solutions. It is not that a model that works in one country – in a dictatorship – can, of course, be moved to another country and become a solution for everyone. In addition, it was rather unpleasant conditions for the crew members who had been shanked. This also raises questions about the honesty of Stefan Jakobsson's and the Swedish Democrats' claim that they want to cooperate. If you want to sit down and cooperate and at the same time come with a finished model, taken from China, which is to be implemented to the letter, it becomes strange to think about how to cooperate. I think that cooperation can be good, but that presupposes that cooperation takes place around the right things. If everyone agrees on bad politics, it will be bad for Sweden. However, this is not my main question in this line shift. I agree with Stefan Jakobsson that the big challenge we have ahead is how to deal with many new ones coming to Swedish school. The big difference between the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats is that we spend a lot of time developing policies for these young people to succeed in Swedish schools. We are considering whether you can give more priority to the hourly plan, and we are considering whether you can extend the time in other ways too – for example by shortening summer holidays. We're thinking about extending compulsory schooling. We are doing this precisely because these people must have a really good chance of succeeding in Swedish school, because if they do not succeed with it they get it difficult in society later. Why do the Swedish Democrats not put forward any proposals to highlight the results for the students who come to Sweden?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a healthy debate. I've been waiting for this question to come. Let me put it this way: we use Shanghai in the positive model. In fact, I will give Christer Nylander that the Liberals, then the People's Party, have highlighted the school issue and been the driving force for it, Madam President. I therefore simply intend, as a Swedish democrat, to kidnap the issue from the Liberals. About that we can see the Shanghai model. We chose to call it the Shanghai model, but we might as well have called it the Singapore model. Shanghai, however, was best placed in investigations at the time. Both Singapore and Hong Kong – although also Chinese, while Singapore is not – have exactly the same models. You have the same system for how to build it: you invest in teachers. By investing in teachers, it becomes a long-term effect for students. This isn't a quick fix. We in Sweden have been world champions in throwing forward solutions. I know that the Liberals have been involved in developing a lot of solutions which have not continued since unfortunately, when we have lifted them over to the municipalities for them to roll on. I therefore believe that we also agree that a nationalisation of Swedish schools, that is to say that we ensure that the state takes responsibility in many areas, could be useful. Madam President, I would like Well, we've actually proposed something very creative, and that's the preparation school. I had a whole press conference about the preparatory school. There we ensure that the new arrivals who will receive existing knowledge – and existing social knowledge – in order to be able to enter the Swedish school system. It is about these students not failing and that the teachers, who are constantly getting new students, should not feel unsuccessful. The existing students in the ordinary classroom should also feel that they receive the education they deserve. Continuing to propose the same things over and over again is like continuing to wash the car with the same dirty water, Madam President. I do not think the car will be cleaner then, but I think we need to be a little fresh and dare to think outside the box. However, I am the first to sit down at the same table as you, Christer, and discuss our future school policy. If we call it the Shanghai model or not, we'll see.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-163	Madam President, I would like I don't believe this about sjanghaja. What was done in the historical context was to assault, kidnap, tie and knock people down and then let them work under slave-like conditions. I believe in democracy and dialogue instead of the kind of politics Stefan Jakobsson keeps arguing for. We fully agree that it would probably be better for the state to take over the headship. The reason we think it is because we want to lift the result for those who have the most difficult. We also believe that equivalence would increase in this way, and it is particularly important in this context when we receive many new arrivals. I note that what Stefan Jakobsson proposes are two things: one should not report the grades in the same way to these students, and one should put them in a long preparation school instead of in today's preparation classes where one constantly tests whether they can go in and learn other lessons in the regular elementary school. The important thing is that these students not only get a good start but also get into the regular school system as soon as possible. I believe that Swedish school has the ability to succeed in this. I believe that the new ones who come to Sweden have great ability to succeed in Swedish school. With a good policy, I think it can be a great success for Sweden that we now get new people to this country. I think that Sweden can actually lift itself in general, but it requires that you have a policy to ensure that both those who go to regular primary school today and those who come to Sweden get a really good chance. I see that the Swedish Democrats do not really have much interest in this. You choose not to report the grades and to put these students in a special school form. I, the Liberals and the alliance parties put a lot of effort into thinking about how these students get better opportunities, more time and skilled teachers to succeed better in school. That is the difference between the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-168	Madam President, I would like I think the difference is very small, and I think that even Christer Nylander, standing in the speaker's chair, will find that six minutes is very short. We've squirted out proposals-- we've got about 50 new proposals-- and I presented some of them. I know that Christer Nylander would like to misunderstand this, Madam President, because it is a bit difficult when another party comes in and tries to take over an issue for which it has long been responsible – and has done a pretty good job. We can now see that the effect is beginning to appear and that it is slowly but surely starting to rise. Unfortunately, when it comes to slave-like conditions, I believe that some of the staff at school today feel that they are in that position. But instead of throwing different illustrations back and forth, I'm going to talk about something concrete. I believe that Christer Nylander and I fully agree on something, Madam President. This concerns the fact that 5 000 schools in Sweden today do not have a curriculum for the preparation classes. How can we have it that way for so many students? We have 500 Sami students who have their own curriculum, but all newcomers in Sweden who are in preparatory class do not have their own curriculum. They have a proposal from the National Board of Education and an encouragement to how it should be done, but they do not have a curriculum. Let us start at the right end and ensure that we structure the foundations for all who come, so that everyone gets an equal education! There are now 5 000 different levels of equivalence in Sweden for those in the preparatory class.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-173	Madam President, I would like Yes, in six minutes it will be a sample of questions you have the opportunity to mention. For the Center Party, the efforts made by the Alliance government at the school are incredibly important. Some of them choose the Social Democratic-led government to continue. We are all passionate about all children's ability to use their potential and for all students' ability to succeed in different ways, regardless of their background. The fact that there will then be competent teachers who meet our children and students in the very best way, whether it is in preschool, primary school or upper secondary school, will be incredibly important. Just as Camilla Waltersson Grönvall said earlier, we were pleased to note the results of the PISA study. There we had the opportunity to see that some of the reforms carried out by the Alliance Government have helped reverse developments. Not least, the Mattelift was highlighted as an important ingredient, and we also see that skill development efforts of various kinds are paying off. It would have been exciting to be able to take the debate with the former Green Party member of the Education Committee, who constantly argued that in every proposal from the Alliance Government we were running in the wrong direction. I expect a slightly different tone from the current Member, Mrs Elisabet, but it was interesting to be able to see which parts have been important for building quality in the Swedish school. In the Center Party, we are really focusing on three things. First of all, it is about the teacher's crucial role in the student's success. I just mentioned the math lift. The School Commission has also highlighted professional development programmes, which I believe are an important part. It will be exciting to learn how it can develop. The career teacher system, which the alliance government highlighted and built up – with some weaknesses, one might say – also deserves to be built on. We see the need to strengthen teachers' skills in different ways. Already at the previous PISA evaluation, it was expressed astonishment that the most competent or skilled teachers, in a country like Sweden, also had the partially lightest students. One then wondered how one could face up to that challenge. One response from the alliance parties was precisely the career teacher reform, with a clear focus on schools in different areas of exclusion. More paths to the teaching profession have already been highlighted in the debate, including Teach for Sweden. There are interesting proposals for independent teacher training. One might think that there is a conflict with recommendations about not having too many different types of training. But I am prepared to think ahead and look at how, in the rather short term, we can give the Swedish school the opportunity to work with the help of a number of measures in a good way. An important thing to spread is not least the models that emerge for how teaching assistants are to be used. The second thing we focus on is about freedom of choice for students, parents and teachers. There are now many different ways of pointing to freedom of choice and pointing to negative consequences. At the same time, freedom of choice is an important part of the construction of Swedish society. In principle, it applies to all children in our country. They have a choice. It's not controlled by the wallet. It can do so to some extent sometimes. But the school is free of charge. It is important to safeguard this and that it can continue to evolve. Then it is frightening that there are parties that think that the political leadership knows what is best and that it should therefore restrict the individual's freedom of choice in a way that is anything but forward-looking. The third thing we focus on is about education being able to lead to jobs. There was a great commitment from the government to the Euroskills, almost two weeks ago. It was amazing to see so many young, talented professionals competing against other young, talented professionals from other countries – to see the pride of the skills they have developed in different ways. It is clear that efforts are needed in the field of study and career guidance, in order to really highlight the possibility of making informed choices. A few years ago, the current Minister of Economic Affairs announced in one of the biggest morning newspapers that students who rejected the professional programs were smarter than the former Minister of Education. It did not help to create a picture of the quality of professional programmes. It gave you anything but a true picture. These programmes have always been able to offer higher education qualifications to anyone who has made such choices. I would like to consolidate that once again. Apparently, the year of vocational education is going to continue. It'll be a long year, or maybe many years. It is a good thing that the long-term proposals from the Gymnasie study show how the quality of professional programmes can be strengthened and not overly smoothed out. It will be exciting to see the referee. I would like to mention the industrial engineering programme in Skövde, which yesterday received the University of Skövde's gender equality prize. It is precisely about the work to create opportunities in the different professional programmes, to work with gender equality, insights, ways of working and action so that it will become an inclusive learning environment. This applies not only to girls and boys but also to people with many different backgrounds. One of the most important challenges I see in the future is that many of our schools have received many students who have been on the run for a short or long time. There is a tremendous amount of work done with it every day. There are major challenges ahead. I don't have time to go into our suggestions now. But of course we want to be involved in highlighting opportunities for many of the new Swedes to be able to get a good education in our country. Madam President, I would like We do not participate in today's funding decision. But we have given a special opinion. I would like to take this opportunity to send an early Christmas greeting to all those sitting in this Chamber but above all to all teachers and students in the Swedish school.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-191	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Carlsson, for your speech. You pointed out very well how important our vocational training programmes are in our upper secondary school. I just have to ask you a control question. I don't think I really understood. As I see it, there have been quite a few signals that the professional programmes have found it difficult to recruit students. We're seeing a declining search pressure. We see that many places are empty. We also see that many professional programmes have to close because of too few applicants. This, in turn, leads to huge problems in the supply of skills, not least locally and regionally. When I'm out meeting entrepreneurs, the concern about the supply of skills is the most common concern I hear about. The closure of vocational programmes also leads to major problems for young people who miss out on high-quality education, which can lead to good jobs in Sweden and abroad, but also to self-employment. But did Ulrika Carlsson really say that it is the current Minister for Economic Affairs' fault that so few people apply for the professional programmes? I just want to check it out.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-197	Madam President, I would like I gave it as an example of information presented by the then opposition, in a number of different contexts, that the new professional programmes introduced in 2011 closed doors to the future. They would not give the necessary skills, and one was a loser if one chose a professional programme. That was unfortunate. And it's a discussion we need to take. I do not see that compulsory university qualifications alone would be the way forward to improve quality. Rather, it should focus on study and career guidance and on what has emerged in investigations about, for example, prao, which the government has said should be looked at in the future. The Center Party has proposed that the corresponding UF should have a greater impact also in primary school where you work with entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship – that you can try different ways. We also know, based on the investigation to which I have referred, that students know very few professions. It makes it difficult to make a well-informed choice. That is why we really need to think about how to create the widest possible understanding of the various professions that exist in primary school. What do they mean? And what are the prospects for the future by choosing different types of professional programmes? I took the Minister for Economic Affairs' comment as an example of how it has been involved in not spreading a true picture of the design of professional programmes.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-201	Madam President, I would like I and Ulrika Carlsson fully agree on the importance of our professional programmes not only being attractive, but also being perceived as attractive. It is a very big task for the country's study and career counselors to ensure that young people get rich and good information. However, it is also an important task for our principals to ensure that there is access to study and career guidance. The government has high ambitions in terms of study and career guidance, which is very important. We will certainly come back to that in other contexts. I don't want to stand here fighting over whose fault it is that professional programs are losing popularity. But if we're going to be really careful, I think you should tell the story the right way. Ulrika Carlsson, who marketed the professional programmes as programmes and orientations for study tired? Who scored a point in the fact that professional programs would not lead to higher education qualifications unless the students made extra efforts? I think signals matter. It is important that all of us who have the great responsibility to work with education policy – perhaps the most important policy area – strive to use words correctly. This applies not least to professional programmes, which at least I will do my very best to describe in the most fair way possible. It is also, of course, my common task and ours to ensure that there is indeed a high quality of professional programmes. The time when the then alliance government marketed the professional programmes that school-tired programmes are over. The vocational programmes are future programmes for those pupils who want to create a good future in the labour market and as self-employed.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-208	Madam President, I would like We from the Center Party have always stressed the importance of freedom of choice and the possibility of different ways forward. Therefore, it was very important for us that vocational programmes in high school in 2011 could also lead to different choices for students. They could choose a general higher education qualification and, in some cases, a special higher education qualification. Or they could choose to immerse themselves in professional programmes. For the Center Party it has always been very important to be able to lift this in different ways. When it comes to guidance and guidance, the role of guidance counselors must be raised. It is also necessary to look at how the whole of comprehensive school – at least during the last four years – can in different ways prepare for the choices that students will later have to make. There you need to make more efforts than just study and career counselors. More elements need to be introduced in different curricula dealing with labour market knowledge. I agree with the picture of the quality of upper secondary school, that too low search pressure and too few students in different classes can lead to lower quality. It is important to look at how different regional collaborations across Sweden can be developed, so that you really strengthen the competence of the professional programmes, so that you continue to develop technology college, nursing college and so that apprenticeship training has an opportunity to get a solid foothold. Not least for the many new arrivals who come to our country, apprenticeship training can be a very important form of learning a profession, learning the language and learning how society as a whole works through learning by doing. I thank you for the questions, and I believe that there is every opportunity to strengthen the quality of vocational education and training in various ways in the future, although of course you should have the quality of all education and training in the Swedish school.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-212	Madam President, I would like One of my favorite authors is Zadie Smith. She recalled in a recent article that not only is each individual the uniform outward appearance we see, but that the individual also has a multifaceted interior. She described it as having a complete palette of possible behavioral patterns, a palette of complex symphonies, which in turn consists of different melodies. And the melodies that eventually come out are of course determined both by the individual himself and by the surrounding world and the conductors you meet in life. I think it's a beautiful picture, and I think it's a pretty true picture of reality. It is also a picture that can be useful when considering school policy. It says something about each person's potential to develop and the importance of meeting expectations and opportunities. The picture says something about the importance of the student being willing and willing to make an effort to develop and reach his potential. I think it is central and something that we often forget in the school debate. In fact, it is fundamentally important that the student also wants and makes an effort. The picture says something about the importance of the school system and the environment that the individual faces, and it also says how important it is to meet skilled teachers. It is a central component of every person's life to find a teacher who is able to help complete the symphonies that man has within him. That's how you have to see it. It is collaborative factors and interaction between different levels that determine whether a student is doing well or not. It is also the interaction between different factors and different levels that determines whether a school system is doing well or not. When something doesn't work – whether it's the system, the teacher or the student – you don't reach at all as far as you could otherwise do. If we are to continue to lift Swedish schools, and we will, we must ensure that more people learn more. Then you have to work with all these parts. The student must want, the teacher must be skilled and the learning environment must be the very best. When Sweden is now taking off in international knowledge tests – even if you should be reserved for those who have come so far, because there may be others who show different results – it is good for the individual and very good for Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is incredibly gratifying that the results of knowledge are now being raised. It is good for Sweden in the long term, and that is what determines our prosperity. But above all, it is important for the individual. What lies behind it is hard work from individuals, from individual students and from teachers. It is also likely that some of the political reforms have been implemented. We received quite a lot of criticism when the Alliance implemented a major reform package during the years 2006– 2014. I think it is a good thing that Minister Fridolin now thanks students and teachers for lifting the results. It's very important to do that. In fact, I think he should have come here today to thank those who are behind the reforms and who have contributed to this. As Fridolin, few have rallied over Jan Björklund's predecessor's reforms and pace of reform. He should therefore be able to come here and say thank you to those in this House who were able to resist when it blew at most. It was the red-greens who criticized that it happened too much, it was the red-greens who claimed that it happened too little. It was Fridolin and the red-greens who said it was going too fast, and it was they who said it was going too slow. Fridolin was one of the most angry critics, but where is he now? I do not think that these reforms were in any way the only decisive thing, but we need to see the whole picture here. But if you're going to lift a school system, you're going to have to put more effort into it. They must meet skilled teachers, but they must also have a system that rewards success and knowledge. Madam President, I would like Even more so, I would like the Minister for Education to come to this House to present new proposals, because more reforms are needed. We'll be happy about the success of PISA and Timss, but we can't be happy. We must ensure that Sweden is further lifted. We will be one of the top countries. We're going to have a school system that delivers at the top of the OECD. We should not be content with an average. The truth is that there will be very few proposals and proposals. It is true that the red-greens promised a stop to reform in the run-up to the election campaign, but it is not paralysis that is raising results. Madam President, I would like In the shadow budget of Liberals, we propose a wide range of efforts to continue to lift Swedish schools. We propose a quality lift in preschool. We propose a ten-year primary school so that more people can learn more early. We suggest more lessons. We propose a package of measures for order and peace of mind in the classroom. We want more first teachers in those schools that need it the most. We are proposing a strong effort to extend the training system for teachers, because we believe that it is essential. We propose reforms to give newly arrived students a better chance of succeeding in Swedish schools by having more time. Among other things, we want the summer holiday to be shortened and that it should be possible to extend the schooling requirement for those who need it and that it should be possible to prioritise more in the hourly plan. And we have many more suggestions than that. Madam President, I would like In addition, we propose that the state should again assume the primary responsibility for the school. Not least in view of the discussion that we are now having on equivalence, it is crucial that the state takes a tougher hold on the school and that in the long term we get a state headship so that the conditions will be equal in all classrooms. We propose all these initiatives and we will launch even more proposals to lift Swedish schools. We do this so that Sweden will not be satisfied with an average without Sweden being at its top. It's good for Sweden. It determines our future prosperity, and it is particularly important for the individual students. That is exactly what Zadie Smith said, that there is a wide range of possibilities in every individual person and every single student. Man's will and our ability to create a good school environment are crucial for whether there will be more symphonies or not. Madam President, I would like As a school politician, we have a responsibility never to settle down, to constantly reflect on how to create an even better environment for students to develop and learn more. As the Liberals' budgetary options have fallen within the framework decision, I do not support it. But it is my full conviction, Madam President, that it would be much better for Sweden and for the individual students if, after the next elections, the country again got an alliance government that again had the full focus on raising the knowledge results in Swedish schools.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-237	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Christer Nylander a question about the speech he just made from the speaker's seat. Christer rightly says that reforms have been implemented that have been good for the Swedish school and that many parties over the years have agreed on. At the same time, I did not hear Christer mention at all his, Liberals' and Jan Björklund's responsibility for the fact that equivalence has decreased so dramatically in the Swedish school, especially in the years that the Alliance was in power, but also in the years before with the policy for the Swedish school that the Alliance then supported. Then the question is: Does Christer Nylander not think that it is the responsibility of the Alliance – the Liberals and the other bourgeois parties – when, after a report, it shows profits in welfare? Is it not your responsibility that we have a free choice of school where welfare actors really have a free choice to decide which students they should have to make as much profit as possible and that because of the free choice of school we have a system of increasing segregation? Are only the students and teachers responsible for this? Those are the ones you mentioned in the speaker's chair. I do not think that this is correct when you thank the Alliance for joint reforms that everyone has agreed with and at the same time completely skips what you are guilty of. You don't give any criticism to the Alliance for this either. Therefore, I would very much like a clarification from you, Christer Nylander.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-241	Madam President, I would like For me, it was good news that the Left Party is now behind all the reforms carried out by the Alliance Government between 2006 and 2014. Welcome! I, the Liberals and the alliance parties are well aware that there is a need to change in the school elections. Together, we have put forward a proposal for an active school election where more people can choose. It will be a more informed school choice, and above all the students and parents will be given more information about the opportunities available. We believe that this is the way forward. But don't say I'm not talking about equivalence! That's almost all I did. However, I am talking about it in a different way from you. Every proposal, Madam President, which I mentioned in my main speech is about increasing equivalence. It is about state school and quality lift in preschool. It's about ten-year primary school, which is something you stop. It's about more lessons and more peace of mind. It is about first teachers, especially where it is most needed. It is about training systems for teachers, and again it is about state school. It is about more reforms and more hours for new arrivals so that they can learn more. All of this is equivalence in practice. It is not enough just to talk about equivalence, but to have reforms that bring it about. I believe that equivalence is created by lifting those who have the most difficult and those who most need more knowledge. Equivalence can also be achieved by holding back those who go to high school. I am not striving for this equivalence. I strive for an equivalence that combines increased chances for those who have the most difficult with overall increased knowledge results in Swedish schools. In this way, I believe that Swedish school can be successful.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-246	Madam President, I would like Mentioning certain political visions twice, as Christer Nylander did with state school, does not make it more effective. You know very well, Christer, that we fully agree to nationalize the Swedish school. What you forgot in the whole long list you listed was that the Liberals also believe in a free choice of school, or active choice of school as you call it, in terms of equivalence. However, research does not agree with this. You forgot to tell me that during their time in power, the Liberals took billions from the Swedish school in order to lower taxes for the richest. You forgot to say that you increased the administration of the school's teachers and staff so much that many had to get sick because they couldn't cope with the work. All this you forgot to bring. Another thing that you forgot to include is that the Liberals are actively working for the profits in the Swedish school to continue. It is not about the profit for the individual student or for the staff of the school, but the profit for the welfare operator who has his account in a tax haven. How does this lead to more equivalence, Christer Nylander? It's funny that when the Liberals are in the pulpit talking about the school, it sounds like they've never been in power. I did not say in my line that the Left Party is behind all the reforms of the Alliance. I said that the Left Party, and of course all the other parties, agree on some issues. The Alliance was in power for eight years. And during these years we could see that the equivalence decreased dramatically in the Swedish school, as we have also seen in the latest PISA measurement and also in other recent measurements. In what way can you, Christer Nylander, take credit for improving the Swedish school when you have actually made sure to reduce equivalence?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-251	Madam President, I would like When you talk about improvements within the Swedish school, you can of course think about different things. You can be happy that the knowledge results are increasing, that guys read better and that those who have the most difficult things in school have actually succeeded better in some measurements. Madam President, I am very proud. It would never occur to me to try to obscure the Liberals' responsibility for Swedish school politics. I am very pleased that the Alliance ruled Sweden for over eight years. It would never occur to me to say we didn't. I think it would be a mistake if, when you attack in dignity problems, you just stare blindly at the fact that there are independent schools in Sweden. There is a need to take a broader approach to this. That is why, during my speech and at the turn of the line, I showed a whole palette of proposals that will highlight those who have the most difficulty in school and those who need knowledge most. That's why I'm prepared to discuss active school elections. I'm also thinking about how to give more time to the new arrivals. That's why I want a state school and more training for teachers. I also propose a wide range of reforms to raise quality in general in Swedish schools. I do not stare blindly at the fact that there are independent schools, but I welcome freedom of choice. But I am also prepared to discuss with other parties how we ensure that this freedom of choice benefits each individual. That is why we are prepared to discuss what an active school election can look like. I believe that freedom can be reconciled with justice and equivalence.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-255	Madam President, I would like Rarely has an education debate been more urgent than at present. We politicians, together with students, teachers, school leaders and parents, have a great challenge in continuing to raise the learning outcomes in school. But I intend to begin my speech with the most important thing, namely to highlight the importance of education. There is a need for formation in a world that is more and more characterized by populism and where people cry out for simple, ready-made answers to complex problems. These are simple answers to be presented by strong leaders. Formation is always important and facilitates communication and understanding between people, not least in a society where many cultural, ethnic and religious groups live side by side. To know their history and to put what is happening around us in a context is crucial if we are not to return to the dark history of the 20th century with demagogues, nationalism, war and reduced freedom and tolerance. Here we all have a responsibility, but the school has a very special responsibility. To know your history, to be able to read, to have time to break thoughts, reflect and draw conclusions is crucial for people to develop into critical and free-thinking people who have good judgment and who can see life from different perspectives. Actually, I could have stopped here because that was the most important thing I had to say today. But this, Madam President, is a budget debate. The sigh of relief was pulled last week. Swedish school has recovered in the PISA study, and the results are turning upwards. That is very positive. Now it's time to hold on and hold on. 2011 was a major reform year in Swedish school. The Christian Democrats then launched together with the Alliance, among other things, a new school team, new curriculum, new curricula, new teacher education and new upper secondary school. These changes take time to work in, and we are pleased that the results are now turning upwards. But we should not be content with this. The Swedish school has a long way to go to achieve the results of other comparable countries and to reach the levels we had in 2000. I do not believe in new major reforms in the future, but the school needs to be able to continue working on the basis of the new direction and the 2011 reforms. That is why it is important that resources are added to where they really will make a difference. We Christian Democrats had this in mind when we presented next year's budget. Madam President, I would like In order for students to develop in the best way and based on their own conditions, many times extra support from properly trained staff is needed. All children may at some point need special support at school. This may include long-term support, but also shorter efforts to come back after a sick absence or to understand a more difficult moment. The requirement for investigation to benefit from extra support too far creates a rigid system. We therefore want to see many more special teachers at school who can help children over time and in short moments in which the child needs support. We believe that you have to dare to bring in level groupings and special teaching groups both for those students who need more stimulation and for those who need extra support. We must look at the needs of each individual in the first place, rather than at inclusion at all costs. We in the Christian Democrats therefore want to see a special teacher lift and have invested SEK 230 million in addition to the government in our draft budget. We also want to support language development and the ability to achieve the knowledge goals for newcomers and other students with Swedish as a second language. Therefore, we propose a competence initiative for Swedish teachers in Swedish as a second language. The reform will mean that 3 000 people will be eligible as teachers of Swedish as a second language. Madam President, I would like Learning what you need in school requires a good school environment but also student health. Students' health needs to be equipped in the long term to better meet and support children and young people with mental illness. The Christian Democrats have therefore allocated SEK 380 million more than the government to student health in the autumn. Another important factor that has actually been shown to have an effect on school results is how much the children are moving. The Christian Democrats therefore want to increase the number of sports hours from today's 500 to 700 hours. More sport helps children to perform better in other school subjects. Moving around provides better concentration opportunities and stimulates learning. Madam President, I would like The teacher's time needs to be freed up for teaching. Employment of teaching assistants is one way, another is to interact with civil society. More safe adults at school can provide relief in the classrooms. They can be in corridors or in the school yard during breaks. Making it easier for civil society to contribute and participate in school activities could both increase security and relieve teachers. The fact that this is a successful way of working and creating security in schools is something that the committee was able to see during our trip to Canada. Madam President, I would like A good school starts with good teachers. A major challenge, therefore, is to attract more people to the teaching profession and to attract back some of the 40,000 teachers who today do not work as teachers. This requires not only higher wages but also clear career paths and trust in the profession, which should feel that it has a mandate to maintain peace of mind and has time for teaching. The Christian Democrats also want to create more fast ways into the teaching profession. A person with a degree in a relevant subject or professional knowledge should be able to reach a teacher's degree through an abbreviated supplementary education in pedagogy. I refer to our particular opinion.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-267	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the UbU1 proposal to be approved. Today, in a very limited time, Madam President, we are going to debate Category 16, which covers everything from preschool to research and in one way or another affects the entire population. It is an area of expenditure that everyone likes and hopefully likes. Children have the right to education. That is what the Convention on the Rights of the Child says. Children have the right to a future, to be able to choose their own life, to seek and achieve success, but also to know their rights and to speak out against various forms of oppression. Education and knowledge are a crucial tool for not swallowing simple solutions to difficult problems. That is precisely why the right to education – good education – must exist for everyone. That is precisely why the concept of education, which I thought Annika Eclund well described, had to run as a red thread through the education system. That's why we're not closing any doors. That's why we're going to build a school system that always gives a second chance and meets students where they are. Everyone has the right to receive support and encouragement to reach their full potential. It costs to have more teachers, special educators, student health, half-classes, small groups, homework help and focus time. But it costs even more not to bet and not to bet on time. Low school initiatives, read-write-count guarantees, welfare billions, special educators, national school development programmes, collaboration for best school, smaller children's groups and socio-economic variables in the distribution of state grants are examples of efforts made by the government and included in the 2017 budget. Together with investments in previous budgets, the government will invest more than SEK 10 billion in school next year. Madam President, I would like We are very pleased with students and teachers who have been able to improve the results in both Timss and PISA with joint efforts compared to the previous measurement. Let us speak well of the school together in order to strengthen motivation, increase positive expectations and appreciate the work done. Unfortunately, however, not all students' results have improved. Not all teachers are allowed to see their students succeed. Equivalence is decreasing. Inequality is increasing. I have on several occasions heard political opponents question equality and wonder why we Social Democrats want everyone to have it the same. I hope that they are beginning to realise that inequality is not something defined by the Social Democrats and can therefore be ignored. Now the equivalence has decreased so much in the Swedish school that Sweden is worse than the OECD average at compensating for the pupils' different home conditions, for socio-economics and for the parents' educational background. It is now a question of allocating resources according to pupils' needs, with higher salaries to those teachers who take on the toughest challenges and further training to all teachers regardless of their principals. It is about reducing the importance of choosing the right or the wrong school. And we should always ask ourselves the question: does the current initiative – or proposal – help to reduce segregation, or does it risk increasing it on the contrary? Madam President, I would like It is time to focus seriously at all levels on the students' expected performance. In fact, it is not relevant to compare the percentage of qualified to further studies, grades or results of national examinations between schools unless the pupils' conditions are taken into account – considering the discussion about what a bad school is. PISA shows us this time that students who go to independent schools are under-pricing compared to students at municipal schools. It deserves to be said, given how we are bombarded with information from free school representatives and business players who believe that free schools are by definition better and that students who go there get higher grades. Underprestering and not using every penny of tax to give students the best possible conditions to reach as far as they can is never okay. In order for all students to reach their full potential, awareness and early intervention are required. Studies show that children who have attended preschool are more successful at school than those who have not participated. According to the OECD and the Swedish National Agency for Education, this applies in particular to children who have parents with a short education and children who, for various reasons, live in a vulnerable situation. Several steps are therefore taken in the Government's budget to strengthen equality in preschool. The initiative Collaboration for the best school is extended to include the preschool class and preschool. In the past, funds have been allocated to municipalities to reduce children's groups in preschool, and a benchmark for the size of children's groups has been re-established in the National Agency for Education's General Council for Preschool. National school development programmes are extended to include those working in preschool. It is extremely important that the staff of the preschool are also given good opportunities for competence development. For example, it is a matter of increasing the knowledge when it comes to receiving and teaching children with a mother tongue other than Swedish. Training is ongoing for preschool managers who have the opportunity to develop pedagogical leadership. The reading lift in preschool aims to stimulate children's language development and take advantage of children's interest in texts, pictures and written languages. The math lift in preschool extends over three semesters as a whole and is based on preschool teachers working collegially and discussing texts, films and experiences but also planning and monitoring activities carried out with the children in preschool. Madam President, I would like It is also important in this context to address the great shortage of teachers. I am not thinking only of the very great needs that unfortunately exist in primary and secondary school. They are well known, and several measures are being taken, which, among other things, Helene Hellmark Knutsson will return to in her speech. I am thinking a little more specifically about the need for preschool teachers. The shortage in 2019 is estimated to amount to almost 12 000 preschool teachers. However, the lack of trained staff does not only apply to pre-school teachers. It also applies to nannys. Almost 25 per cent of preschool staff today have no education at all for work with children, and in independent preschools it is almost 38 per cent. The university needs to educate more, absolutely. But here it becomes so clear that the attitude and ability of municipalities to make vocational programmes attractive, in this case the children's and leisure programmes, are at least as important, as are salaries, conditions and working conditions. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to make some reflections on the world-unique conditions under which Swedish schools operate: free choice of schools, free establishment of free schools with tax funding, the right to make a profit and ultimately a municipal responsibility for all pupils. The Social Democrats and the government want to retain the opportunity for parents and pupils to choose schools, but not for schools to choose pupils. Free schools in collaboration is an asset for many municipalities. But school elections must be combined with strong systems to break segregation and create stable conditions for all school leaders. Today, children are sorted between schools far too much according to background and parents' level of education. Housing segregation is enhanced by the free choice of school. We must actively oppose school segregation and the downsides of free school elections. It is a crucial issue for the future. Profits made from tax revenue should not be collected as profits to the owners but invested in students and teachers. Many counties have freedom of choice without profit. In our neighbouring country, Denmark, for example, independent school activities and therefore freedom of choice are flourishing despite the fact that profit is not allowed. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that cooperation rather than competition must become the guiding principle of the education system. This applies at all levels.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-289	Madam President, I would like This is a budget debate. It is gratifying to note, as a moderate, that when it comes to money, we well match the government's efforts. But it's about so much more than money. It is also about doing the right things and in the right way to get a result. That is why it is so gratifying that today we can stand here in December, just before Christmas with all that means, and be able to have the happy PISA results in our backs. It has played a role in the policy we have pursued, although it is a huge victory for all the teachers who work out in our classrooms and the students who have achieved the result. What we did for eight years was something that Lena Hallengren and her party colleagues consistently voted against. Every reform of knowledge that was presented in this House and voted on was voted against. It is from a perspective that we have schools where students' knowledge has fallen for a long time. My questions to Lena Hallengren are: Which reforms of those that were introduced have you not considered beneficial for the development of higher knowledge outcomes? What reforms are you going to take away? We can now see that it is half-time for the government. So far, no reforms of the Alliance have been removed. Should we consider it to have been a successful policy that you are now supporting? This is my first question to Lena Hallengren.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-293	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the questions na, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! I guess it matches the plus 11 million in a budget of 74 billion. Well, let's just say we spend about the same amount, if you're gonna be nice. Then we can discuss what is actually being put into welfare billions and other spending areas, but that is not what we are debating here and now. I would like to emphasise once again that no one in any way denies the happy PISA results, although of course one must take the good with the bad. However, it is a fact that equivalence has declined for eight years with the bourgeois government and under Jan Björklund's rule. It is not just a question of what reforms were wrong. What reforms were missed? Why did not more active efforts be made in terms of resource allocation and efforts to break the unequal development that we saw? I started making a little list. Were we really against all the reforms? Did Camilla Waltersson Grönvall seriously mean it, such as the curriculum, career services, and others? However, you can always discuss: What do you do six, seven, eight years later, if you really think that you take responsibility for the school? This has been said in view of the change of line I had previously had with the representatives of the Swedish Democrats who claimed that he wanted long-termism, while at the same time he did not want to keep almost anything in its present form. It would be irresponsible for all governments to say that what they did not like a number of years earlier is just scratching up. This is one of the challenges that is very difficult. That is why it is important that we have a school commission that is working and that we try in future to be as united as possible. I realize that the differences exist. It's not a secret. But I also believe that there is much more we agree on than we sometimes want to give the impression in this House. I would like to state firmly that for the future we must be much better off than before. Jan Björklund used the opportunity to have his own majority for four years and do some what he wanted. I believe that we should take advantage of the possibilities of having as broad a solution as possible and focus the debate on what we consider necessary.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-301	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer, Lena Hallengren! Nevertheless, I think it shows the lack of proposals and the lack of action we have unfortunately seen during this time. The government has now presented its third budget. Unfortunately, we still have more questions than answers. Above all, we do not have a number of proposals. A lot of things have been hidden in investigations, including this Commission, which we are still waiting for the results of. What we can see, however, is that international research shows a clear link between more teaching time and improved knowledge results. We therefore think it is serious that Swedish students lose almost a whole year of teaching compared to students in other OECD countries. Added to this is the increase in hours in mathematics, where we are also very low in comparison with other countries. The government has consistently said no to or been completely silent about this. I would like an answer that focuses on knowledge results and how we proceed with raising Swedish students' knowledge. If Lena Hallengren believes in what international research says about the connection between the time a skilled teacher spends with each student, I want her not to avoid that question but to really answer it. How does the government intend to meet that proposal? Do you see more teaching time in relation to that Sweden has as little teaching time as part of how we solve this further? Is the government prepared to invest in more teaching time?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-305	Madam President, I would like I usually strive to try to describe what is positive and what is negative. I think that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall should perhaps also see a little bit of what lies behind the 74 billion and all the reforms that have been implemented. In fact, it is a bit silly not to see school development programmes as permanent but rather to remove them in their own budget options, as the Moderates, among other things, do. It's about training the teachers. I think teaching time matters. But it also matters that qualified teachers have the opportunity and time to teach the students. We are facing a shortage of 60,000 teachers. It would be interesting to see an update on this. It is clear that it affects that the search pressure increases and that 10 000 more teacher training places exist, that Teach for Sweden gets more seats and that we have more KPU. I am very concerned that so many students will not be able to meet a teacher who is qualified. This applies not least to the subject on which I know that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is thinking, namely mathematics. Now it's time for high school. I see no problem that it will increase even during primary and secondary school. But we have to take it at a reasonable pace. That's one of the answers. There is no simple answer like: If we increase the hours a little more in mathematics, for example, we get the results. I do not deny that there may be a connection between them. But it's also about being able to invest in special educators and make sure that we don't have too large classes. We must also ensure that we safeguard equivalence. Unauthorized teachers will not be evenly distributed across the country's municipalities and schools, unfortunately.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-309	Madam President, I would like I find it striking that everything that is bad has Jan Björklund and the Alliance all responsibility for, but everything that happens to be good they have no responsibility at all for. But I am not going to bury myself in this rhetoric, but I am going to talk about equivalence. I think it is good that the Social Democrats and the Red-Greens talk a lot about this, and I share the concerns that exist. It's just that if you're going to face this, you have to decide what's most important, and I think the key thing is to succeed with both. We must continue to lift the results of knowledge and continue to ensure that those who are really good and involved in school get better results. At the same time, in order to increase equivalence, we must make sure that those who are a little more difficult at school improve their performance even more. That is the big challenge. If you just measure the equivalence and just talk about it, you can end up in a completely insane barrel. We need to ensure that both the results of knowledge are raised in general and that equivalence is increased. In this connection, I have two specific questions for Lena Hallengren, who is responsible for these issues in the Committee on Education. My first question concerns the fact that there is a strong majority in the Riksdag in order for us to have a ten-year primary school. This slows the government down. There is an announcement from the Education Committee and Parliament that we want a ten-year primary school because more people will get a better start in this way. But nothing's happening. Why? My second question is that there is an agreement that more schools will receive new arrivals. We resolved this quite quickly in the case of independent schools, but we still do not see any government proposal on municipal schools. Why?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-313	Madam President, I would like This thing with everything good and everything bad and how to tie it to your own representatives, we can all feel hit by, can't we? It doesn't usually sound like that from all parties. I'll answer those two questions. With regard to ten-year primary school, I think it is an exaggeration to say that Christer Nylander's party and others want ten-year primary school and that the government does not want it. However, it is about having ten years of compulsory schooling and how we then look at the preschool class. That's really what's breaking the question. To make all preschool teachers unauthorized to teach during the first year for six-year-olds is an unwise way to go, and we are trying to find other opportunities to ensure that you still get a ten-year compulsory schooling. Christer Nylander will be happy to reflect a little on this in his reply: What does it mean that the supervisors will be unauthorized? Do they really not have the necessary skills? The question is, rather, how do we ensure that all students are in preschool class, that they are entitled to the support that is needed and that you in no way feel that you are waiting with this. How do we make sure that the preschool class becomes part of and makes its contribution to the students n the goals in grade 3, for example? To be able to do this and still allow the instigators to be competent – that is precisely what is the crux of the matter, where I hope we can come forward. The second question, whether newly arrived pupils in municipal schools, is a very good one. It took a terrible time to come up with the first agreement, and I do not want to say that it went so very smoothly to get it out. But we agreed on the case, and finally we found a way. I hope that we will also do so with regard to municipal schools. I think we should all go back to our parties and think a little bit about how we can contribute to this work.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-317	Madam President, I would like It is only to be noted that there is a majority in Parliament who want a ten-year primary school because we want a four-year primary school and the rights that it means being in primary school rather than in the preschool class in terms of special support, for example. If you want more people to succeed early in school, I think it's pretty good that more people are included in the right to receive special support in order to meet the knowledge requirements that exist for primary school. That's why we want ten-year primary school: for more people to get a good start. We agreed on an important part of the equivalence, namely how more municipalities receive more new arrivals. We also agreed on how more independent schools can receive more new arrivals. But the government does not come up with a proposal as to how more municipal schools can take responsibility for more new arrivals coming to their schools. I am prepared to discuss, and the alliance parties have been constructive in this. What is now expected is a government proposal on this issue. I'll ask my question again. If the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party think that it is an important issue that more schools should receive new arrivals – why does there not come a concrete proposal from the government? Why is this issue not a priority?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-321	Madam President, I would like I would like to return to the question of ten-year primary school and say that I think this is an example where everyone needs to think more about whether we can agree on this than saying that we are going to vote through something that actually involves major changes by the smallest possible majority. The question is not whether pupils should be entitled to special support that they need for ten years, but the question is: Should preschool teachers who today teach preschool classes be considered unauthorised, or can we find a form where the preschool class is mandatory and where children are entitled to special support in cases where they need it but where preschool teachers continue to be the main staff group? With regard to the question of the possibility for municipal schools to receive new arrivals in a way that may not correspond to the current principles, I would like to call on Christer Nylander to ask the Minister of Education for an interpellation if he wishes to discuss the matter in detail. The question lies mainly there. However, I would like to problematise the whole thing somewhat. Part of the problem is the introduction of a quota similar to that of the free school side, where no more than a certain proportion of people get round sex. That quota is not quite easy to design. One can think about what it means for schools that have a good many more students who are newly arrived. Is there a problem in this, where can you draw the line and what are the consequences? I cannot give a better answer to this. It is an issue that has been negotiated, and I see in front of me that the negotiations can continue if there is interest.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-326	Madam President, I would like I have four questions; we'll see how many I have time for. My first question, Madam President, is this: if I remember correctly, Sweden is the fifth best country in the OECD to invest financially in school. That is the budget we are going to talk about here. But we're in 25th place when it comes to results. The question is: Has there been any analysis? The Social Democrats have made a good effort. I will honor you when you do good things, and this is about you having brought Anna Ekström in. She should sit with the knowledge so that you could develop a really good analysis and a good policy on this issue. I very much hope that we will have a good analysis of this which may also be included in the School Commission so that we other parties can have access to it. We have talked about equivalence. It has become a major issue since the OECD report was released, Madam President. We would look at this very carefully. If you go in and look at the statistics you can see that there is something called the Children's Ombudsman and Max 18. In fact, there are all the statistics that are available and that one might wish for. There you can see who is by far the weakest group. As we talked about here before, it is newly arrived girls who show the second best result. But then we're talking about 200 - 300 people, so it's a pretty small group. The group with the weakest results are second generation immigrant boys living and living in segregated areas. They have other options for making money than studying. Unfortunately, Madam President, that is what the result is today. My question to Lena Hallengren is: What is the government's commitment to these two things, i.e. the analysis and second generation immigrant boys living in the segregated areas?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-331	Madam President, I would like It is appropriate that Anna Ekström is present in the Chamber so that Stefan Jakobsson can request a reply to her. Then I won't have to answer in her place. However, I can say that it is clear that analysis is extremely important. That is what we are all doing. We also try to do different types of follow-up and evaluation work in the Education Committee, for example. Today, this has been given very good attention, for example in the case of research schools. The school commission is about taking things seriously and analysing. I think that there is reason to mention this as something positive in this context. Usually it sounds like this: You have buried it in the School Commission, and you have hidden it there! Can we not even analyse a question for half a term of office? I usually compare with the Barnstuge inquiry, which was set up in the early 70s and which worked for four five years to map out the way to a general and equal right for children to attend preschool. We need to be able to take some time. I am hopeful and, as I said, I very much hope for the School Commission's proposal. None of us really know what it will contain, even if we have received some information that the honourable Member can take on board in the reference group. It will be an important basis, and it will also be a small receipt of how we can absorb the facts and knowledge presented, and not just what fits into the previously written party programmes. I'll say something short about the fact that not all students perform as well or as badly without students having different conditions. It is no news for anyone in this House that boys perform worse than girls and that it is tougher to come from another country and also to live in an area where parents with a short educational background are likely to have. That's what shines through. That is what resource allocation is about, that is what special educators are about and that is what the whole work on Collaboration for best school is about, among other things. What does Stefan Jakobsson do? Does he have any better suggestions to send? I'd love to see them.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-337	Mr President, I would like to My proposals have already been presented at five press conferences over the past year. I am willing to sit down and discuss with any party, hopefully all parties, because we do not know which one will be the biggest party and will be in the government in two years' time. Then maybe we should have a discussion before then so we don't have to ruin the school. Lena Hallengren has the advantage of having attended the preschool education. Although she has never worked in the profession, in this case I would like to discuss the aptitude test. The Government has thus given UHR an assignment from Linnaeus University and Jönköping University, where they have looked at the suitability for adoption. It would be interesting if Lena Hallengren would like to present today if you have any thoughts on the subject. I believe that an aptitude test for teachers is extremely important. Everyone sitting in the gallery and everyone out in Sweden can probably raise their hands on the fact that one has at some point had a bad teacher – a really bad teacher, perhaps even a teacher who has ruined even growing up. This must be removed from school. The second question concerns free schools and new arrivals. I agree with the previous speaker: when are we going to make the same demands on municipal schools? Free schools have a lot of demands on them. It is very often pointed to the free schools with the index, but I think that there should also be an equivalence between free schools and municipal schools. One initiative that was made here and that various parties agreed on was that one should have the opportunity to go ahead in the queue. We are now seeing the effects of this, Mr President. Now 0.7 per cent of the free schools that were given this opportunity have signed up to allow new arrivals to pass before in the queue – 0.7 per cent. Was it really worth the money, the effort and the energy that it cost to produce and implement a snowball proposal? By snowball proposals, I simply mean meaningless rules.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-342	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put on record the fact that I have not been trained as an intern without a basic teacher's training. Whether or not I have worked for a long time in the profession is quite uninteresting in this context, if that is what I should be basing my speech on. It tempts me a little bit to talk about Stefan Jakobsson's personal qualities and abilities, especially when it is linked to the question of suitability tests to teacher training. I know that trials are under way with regard to fitness tests for teacher training. One should not draw too many conclusions until they have finished working, but in principle I do not think that one can judge if someone becomes a good teacher before it even gets the chance to start. Because I think we're growing with knowledge. I think we have every opportunity to develop our abilities. Let's see what the trials show. It can also be considered whether an aptitude test should be introduced for those who want to become doctors, nurses, sociologists, police officers or firefighters. Perhaps we should not go after grades and the belief that people are growing with knowledge, but perhaps we should value 16 – 17-year-olds and their future career choices? Like I said, we'll see what the evaluation shows. But I am very sceptical about this; so I have said it. With regard to equal requirements for free schools and municipal schools, I am among those who think it would be wise to draw up a proposal that included both free schools and municipal schools. It wasn't quite possible to get along at first. I do not really know how Stefan Jakobsson interprets that 0.7% of free schools have signed up. I think, of course, that it is a pity and hope that there are many more people who allow newcomers to go to their schools, without having to use this legislation because they actually had places over. It is not that all free schools have long queues and that you have to round the queue to go to school. I think it would be very wise to work actively towards this, and I hope that is how it is.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-350	Mr President, I would like to I was going to take the opportunity to continue a discussion, because the main speech, just like Lena Hallengren said, is rather short. Instead, it gives the opportunity to deepen the reasoning in the lines with both debate and dialogue linked to the different issues. Of course, equivalence is a very important issue, but it is also a very difficult issue in different ways. It is clear that different reforms can have some negative effects as well as other positive effects on the development of equivalence. Just as Lena Hallengren mentioned in her speech, it is also about access to teachers in different ways, both certified teachers and educational staff at all. I would therefore like to ask a few questions about how we create equivalence across the country. Sometimes the focus is on differences between municipal schools and free schools, but we also see that in large parts of the country there is a great lack of qualified teachers as well as that it is difficult to find a student base for full-time services in too small places. Then I come to my perhaps predictable question about remote learning and the ability to make the new technology available to more students so that you also use teachers' skills as optimally as possible only on the basis of the small school's possibilities. There is a trial going on now, in which we from the Center Party wanted to go further and open up to a more generous attitude. How does Lena Hallengren feel about making the possibility available to qualified teachers across the country using new technology?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-355	Mr President, I would like to I very much appreciate the question, and I think that we in committee should devote ourselves to it very much, not just in the field of remote education and technology, but really learn more about it. It can be about follow-up work, it can be about visits of various kinds and courtings. I believe that we must try to think differently and differently in different ways if the whole country is to have an opportunity to live and develop, which I am absolutely convinced is done through education and schooling. I am also looking forward to the investigation into remote education conducted by Eva Durhan, which is under way. Now I don't remember when it will come; maybe Ulrika Carlsson himself knows that. But it would just try to analyse more in depth, because it is clear that there is a difference. How many subjects can a student be taught remotely? Can you have all your teaching in the form of remote teaching? What competence is required of the adult in the classroom? Is that supposed to be a teacher? On what subject? With what authority? How small can a class be to still have some form of exchange and opportunity for dialogue so that you meet other goals in the curriculum? I am certainly not negative about this, and this applies to social democracy as a whole when it comes to new technologies and to enabling places outside the central centres to use remote teaching. But it is still a matter of being a little careful and hurrying slowly, because we both want certain qualities to be reached and simply know that teaching is up to the mark.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-358	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your answer! We both know the distance school in Torsås, where you use the new technology in teaching at upper secondary level and where it works well. It is clear that there are certain elements there that could be envisaged. After all, there are many who have practical experience and who could share it. My hope, therefore, is that all this practical experience will also be brought into the ongoing investigation that can be put to good use. It is clear that this should be linked to the knowledge focus that is important to have across the country. There was a question of construction that also became quite sensitive and that was supposed to mess things up in different ways. How does Lena Hallengren view the possibility of municipalities opening up to such a solution? From a rural perspective, I think it is important that it is not just small rural schools that are going to take advantage of remote education. It is also about the small school having the opportunity to use new technology to broaden the student base or service basis for teachers and so on. That kind of thinking I would like Lena Hallengren to develop a little.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-363	Mr President, I would like to Torsås is a municipality in my constituency with which I have a lot of contact. It is indeed a positive example. What should be added is that students are largely at home for various reasons, due to long sick leave and different types of difficulties in living in large groups. Some students can do that. I hesitate about how much students can sit alone without being in large groups so that they can still build social relationships and have a dialogue with others. It's important to me. Then it was a question of construction between municipalities. I'm going to admit that I've given up a little bit since we discussed a tricky bill dealing with remote education and distance learning. The possibility of not only being able to procure from a training company but also being able to interact between municipalities is what we want to get at. Many municipalities solve the problem by forming associations of municipalities, upper secondary schools, school associations, which mean that the borders do not exist. It is a positive development that municipalities try to cooperate and cooperate more so that they are not so vulnerable. I look forward to further discussions. I would like to add – a little bit with Torsås in the back of the head – that it requires a lot of knowledge and competence for the teacher to work with students who sit somewhere else. It is not something you can easily say that you can think of doing. We have talked a lot about training of various kinds this morning. It will be very important to build knowledge and understand that it is not just a question of sending things digitally but that it is a question of building a learning environment and knowledge. It will require action at national level if we are to move forward.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-366	Mr President, I would like to As everyone knows, the Left Party is behind the jointly drawn up budget, and I will mention that in my speech later. I have another question for the Social Democrats, the Government and Lena Hallengren about the many refugee children who are about to be expelled right now. I know that this is not a migration debate, at the same time as both Lena Hallengren and I have mentioned the children and their conditions in the Swedish school when other representatives have been up in the pulpit. In what way does the government believe that students who at any time risk expulsion – a large number yesterday – should see hope for the future and want to learn Swedish, want to go to school, want to become part of our education system? How can this happen when many of the students today have suffered great psychological damage from what the Swedish government and other parties are doing to them? Although we agree on the budget, it is important for the government to take a position. At least those of you who sit for the government parties on the Education Committee must mean all students, not just those students who simply know that they will be granted a residence permit or who are citizens of the country. I would like an answer to that question.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-370	Mr President, I would like to I shall not try in any way to evade the question, and I will give an answer, although I would like to emphasise what Daniel Riazat himself began with, namely that this is largely a migration issue rather than a matter relating to the Committee on Education's budget debate. What has been important to ensure is that if you are in education you should have the right to stay. This also applies to national programmes and to some extent also to language introduction. The assessment of who is allowed to stay or who is not allowed to stay becomes the migration perspective. With regulated immigration, it becomes a question of whether or not you have the right to stay. Now, for example, there has been a re-assessment of the situation in Afghanistan, which is likely to change the situation of several of the young people who come from there. I understand exactly what Daniel Riazat means – especially after all these meetings with these young people. I certainly share Daniel Riazats's view. However, it will be difficult to have a regulated immigration policy and reception rules if the rules are not complied with. The extreme situation that has existed in Sweden because of what is happening in the world has only just begun. I hope that these students will enter the Swedish system in the form of school and other establishment. That is the absolute ambition. When we say everyone, we mean everyone who goes to school. The right to go to school is available when you wait for a residence permit or have a residence permit.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-375	Mr President, I would like to I know that Lena Hallengren and I are basically in agreement. We share values on these issues. At the same time, I want to know how Lena Hallengren believes that Swedish school is affected by the uncertainty that many students find themselves in today. About a hundred teachers and school staff have contacted us in the Riksdag, and I have visited them. They're talking about a difficult situation right now where they don't know how to work with the students. It will be difficult to try to teach things to students who do not know how many hours, days, weeks or months they will stay. Yesterday, approximately 50 people were deported to Afghanistan with chartered planes from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. 1 at night. Among them were a number who have been in the Swedish system, that is, have not been so to say outside our institutions. Many children are afraid to go to school. I know it. When we were refugees, we were afraid to go to school. We were afraid that the police would come to school or that we would be taken when we were on our way home after school. It is important that we education politicians, including the Chair of the Education Committee Lena Hallengren, take a stand and make clear how the Swedish school is affected by the situation.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-380	Mr President, I would like to I would really like to emphasise that I am absolutely convinced that our whole society is affected by the current situation. Temporary residence permits are not an ideal situation. We can learn from any researcher that permanent residence permits are much better for those who want to establish themselves in order to create security and for family reunification. There are reasons which have been stated in this House on many occasions, which have been the basis for creating long-term and broad agreements in the current situation. Sometimes you would like to make decisions yourself, but decisions in migration courts and government decisions based on the political decisions we make are the right way to go. In this way, Sweden has a legally secure system compared to many other countries. It is important that we can achieve faster information and decisions. Waiting is what creates an untenable situation for everyone involved – ultimately the one waiting for the message. I understand that it is also about those who meet and surround these young people. I do not imagine that there is someone who is fleeing to Sweden who would very much like to go back. It is my view and that of the Social Democrats that temporary residence permits are not the best, but it is the agreement that has been reached to create long-term prospects.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-385	Mr President, I would like to Today is the debate on education and research. It is an area that affects us all more or less. Each of us has different relationships with the school, depending on what we ourselves have done. We have been students at different schools and universities ourselves. I myself have brought along a whole series of stories over the years from my parents, through my daughter's education and my own time as a teacher. It is a time span from the mid-1920s to today's date, and a lot has happened in the hundred years. As society has changed, the demands for skilled labour have increased and the longing for education and training has grown, the school system has undergone major reforms in different periods. Mr President, I would like to Education and education are the characteristics of a person's entire life. That is why it is one of the most important parts of how we give our children the opportunity to get a good start in life and the best conditions to develop their abilities. All students have the right to a good school. Among other things, the Government wants to create better conditions for municipalities to achieve the goal of an equal school of knowledge. In addition to the welfare billions, we have combined, including this year's budget, made school investments of over SEK 10 billion for 2017. For example, this amounts to 21⁄2 billion for more employees in the preschool class, in the recreation centre and in primary school, 3 billion in increased teachers' salaries and large targeted efforts for schools with difficult conditions. The goal is to give everyone a good start in life no matter where in the country they live. We have a long tradition of continuous improvements to our education system. Preschool is offered to children under the age of six. Here, the play and the pleasurable learning will shape the business, and the children's perspective will be captured and impacted in the business. From the year a child turns six, the municipality is obliged to offer a place in preschool that is free of charge and covers at least 525 hours during a school year. Children's groups in preschool and preschool classes are sometimes too large. In order to create conditions for smaller groups of children and increased staff density, the Government has introduced a state grant of SEK 415 million for 2015 and SEK 830 million per year from 2016. At the same time, the Swedish National Agency for Education has, on behalf of the Government, developed new benchmarks for the size of children's groups in preschool. Since research shows that preschool pedagogy, based on playful learning, leads to better school results, the government wants to make preschool class mandatory. Those students who need care after school get it on fritis. For many younger students, time at the recreation centre is part of the school day. Fritis pedagogy is then an important part of learning. A well-functioning recreation centre can increase equality by offering further learning opportunities, in particular to those students who need it. However, despite the increasing number of pupils in recreation centres, resources for recreation centres have not increased at the same rate. The groups are growing, and staff density is decreasing. Similarly, the proportion of staff with an educational degree or other education for work with children is decreasing. This affects the ability of leisure centres to carry out their duties. In order for the leisure centre's education to be of good quality and adapted to stimulate pupils' learning and development and to offer meaningful leisure and recreation, the government is investing SEK 250 million in 2016, and it is estimated for the coming years of SEK 500 million per year for interventions within leisure homes. The initiative is proposed to consist mainly of a state contribution to increase staff density, but also to some extent of efforts to improve the quality of teaching in other ways. Investing in the youngest gives the educators the opportunity to see each individual in the group and thus satisfy the needs that exist to support both the student who runs ahead and needs more and greater challenges and the student who needs some extra support to keep up with the steps and move on through comprehensive school. Primary school is the way to high school. Here all basic knowledge must be communicated and acquired. Here the child grows into a teenager. Now that we have received the new numbers from both Timss and PISA, I must say a few words about how impressed I am by both teachers and students. Of the students, who usually change both study and subject, for example from English 40 minutes to mathematics 60 minutes with new co-workers, new supervisors and a work area of 0.5 square meters. Of the teacher, who to a little greater extent does not have to change premises but has all his equipment with him and will be a dedicated supervisor for a whole new group of between 20 and 30 students every 60 minutes, sometimes without any chance of recovery between lessons. They're amazing, aren't they? And we improve our performance – the vast majority of people reach upper secondary school eligibility. It is a fantastic work victory in the Swedish school that the new results from PISA and Timss point to. All credit to the teachers and students who have accomplished this! But we can't rest here. The challenges are still great. In particular, the growing inequality in school poses major challenges. The Red-Green Government sees this growing inequality in school as one of its biggest challenges as we continue to build the school that creates optimal conditions for all children to grow and develop. Komvux exists for those who for one reason or another have not reached the end. They should be able to complete their comprehensive school degree or upper secondary school degree and then enter the labour market directly or perhaps continue into higher education. Komvux is also many times the key that opens the door for those who want to change careers and try something new. Mr President, I would like to Since today, the Government has clearly prioritised an equal school of knowledge, early intervention and an attractive teaching profession. The Government's efforts contribute to developing Swedish schools and give each teacher more time with their students and students more time with their teachers. Teachers should have good opportunities to develop in the profession and do their job, and we politicians should show respect for teachers and their professional skills. Our proposals and decisions should support and help teachers in their work, not discourage and complicate it. I therefore support the UbU1 proposal. I wish you all a wonderful day of lucia in the light!
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-403	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Elisabet Knutsson that politics should not complicate things for teachers. I have a question about that and a question about something else. The OECD usually says that the Swedish school system has a problem, and that is that it is complicated. It doesn't stick together. It's hard to see where the responsibility lies. This government has made it even more complicated, I would say. Government grants do not go to teaching as such from the state side to the municipalities, but to all kinds of other things. In my view, it would be more attractive for the state in its state subsidies to be clear that it is education as such to be strengthened, not toilet reconstruction or school buildings. My second question concerns the Environmental Party's analysis of the eight years when the Alliance ruled Sweden and Swedish school politics. Almost exactly a year ago it was not Elisabet Knutsson but Jabar Amin who was in the speaker's chair. Ha n said this – I quote from Parliament's minutes: We know that recipe is demonstrably wrong. That's what you've been doing for eight years-- you've been running fast, but in the wrong direction. That's why you couldn't raise the level of knowledge. – – – – That policy is for you to answer for, Christer Nylander, not me. ..................................................... My question is: What analysis does the Green Party make today of the eight years when the Alliance Government ruled Sweden and Swedish school politics?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-409	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to converting toilets, both as an adult and as a young person at school, in order to be able to do a good job and be well at work, you need to have work premises that are functional. We know that many municipalities cannot afford to renovate their schools. I can't imagine students in school having a worse chance. You must be able to walk in a toilet that works and where you can feel safe and have a living room that allows you to relax the short time you have to switch from one lesson to another. That environment, I think, is very important for creating security in school, so I don't think it's a bad venture at all. With regard to the Alliance's policy over the previous two terms of office, it is clear that some things were good from our point of view. Some things we have not removed because we believe that we need peace and quiet in school. But maybe I'm not as categorical in my statement as Amin was.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-411	Mr President, I would like to Elisabet Knutsson is welcome to develop that last one: not as categorical as Jabar Amin. Few are as categorical as he is, not least in the criticism of the Alliance's school policy. Now he said that we would answer for what happened then and the knowledge that it led to. My question is: Does Elisabet Knutsson think that we should answer for the knowledge development that took place? I fully agree that Swedish school should have good premises – that students should have nice premises and a good working environment. I think it is very important that the teachers have good premises and work environment. My question is, instead, who should be responsible for this. I think the government should take greater responsibility. I think that Swedish school should have state authority, and therefore I am prepared to say that the state should ensure that there are educational resources. But as long as this is not the case, I also say that state subsidies to municipalities should go to educational resources. That is where we can take responsibility, because we determine where to reach through curricula, curricula and knowledge requirements. Then it is reasonable that we focus our resources there. What this government has done, however, is to increase the ambiguity of the Swedish school system. Government grants are used for all kinds of things. One of the things that the OECD says to us is that a problem with Swedish schools is that accountability is unclear. It's hard to tell who's responsible for what. Now the government is making it even more unclear. Although I would have liked to have a state school, I land in the municipalities, for example, to manage the premises. The most important thing for me is the teaching resource and clarity. I think it's quite central: if you have a school system that works, you have to know who has the main responsibility for what. The government is now making this much more complicated and goes directly against the recommendations that I think the OECD is giving us.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-416	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the appearance of the premises, it is of course absolutely right that the municipalities own the premises. However, when we see that the municipalities do not row ashore to keep the premises at a sensible level, the state may need to go in and take a greater responsibility to give the students and teachers the facilities needed for a good education. I do not see any contradiction there. One thing depends on the other: poor working environment produces poor school results. Every government must answer for what it has decided, both for good and for evil. I feel it can't be the biggest concern of a government. If you have implemented your policy and think you have done something good, I do not understand why Christer Nylander feels threatened and worried about being called to account. I assume that Christer Nylander has excellent answers to all the questions he is being asked to answer.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-418	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by drawing attention to this day, on the day of Ucia. A few weeks ago we could see how one of our children, who was on Åhlén's lucia picture, had a huge hate storm against him because of mainly his skin color but also his sex. I would therefore like to say to all the children out there that it does not matter what skin or hair color you have or what origin you have. Everyone can be lucia, no matter what certain parties, organizations and online haters say. I didn't live in the '70s, but you who did, perhaps remember when the women's movement went out and demonstrated under the slogan, Do you remember a few years ago, when trade unionists, teachers and other welfare workers demonstrated under slogans that they wanted the widest possible pay gap, so that they would split as much as possible? Do you remember how principals protested that they had too much educational responsibility and instead wanted to become more of financial officials? Do you remember when SVT reported on all pupils from socio-economically vulnerable and out-of-priority areas who had succeeded better in school with a grade instead of a knowledge focus? These are just a few examples of what the reality is today in Swedish school. When the PISA results and the report came out, many of us, as usual in this context, made political moves. The Left Party believes that it is very important that we lift up the problems that exist. At the same time, we must not paint the Swedish school as bad, because that is far from the truth. When we see that there are systematic problems in the Swedish school, the question is which path we choose to take. Do we choose to take a path where we make sure that the winnings go to some? Are we taking a path where the corps is split up because of excessive pay differentials? Do we choose a path where principals who want to be educational leaders can instead devote their time to being financial officials? Or do we choose a path where pupils in socio-economically excluded areas do not receive the help they need and do not receive an equivalent education compared to other children? This is also stated in the OECD PISA report. I think we must take the other route and be proud of what we have built up with the Swedish school, which other parts of the world want to follow. The Swedish preschool and adult education are good examples of this, as well as large parts of what we have in our school system. At the same time, we must see the problems that exist. The Left Party has been involved in pushing forward the 10 welfare billions that we, together with the government, are investing. The Left Party has been involved in abolishing RUT deductions – or RUT grants, as it should be called – for homework aid, instead of spending that money on homework aid at school. We have been involved in ensuring that larger investments are made in Fritis and schoolyards. Together with the government, we have made sure to produce a study on welfare gains, which has highlighted very well the problems that the benefits of welfare, not least in school, have led to. We will continue to discuss this issue. As the audience at home or here in the gallery has noticed, the bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, are trying to take the focus from the issues of equivalence. However, the report after the report shows that Swedish schools are increasingly torn apart – not only in terms of knowledge in terms of results, but because children no longer meet children from other areas. In the old days, when Swedish school was built up, the son of the worker at the factory met the chief doctor's daughter in school. Today, reality doesn't look like that anymore. That is the school policy for which the alliance parties must take responsibility. This is the school policy that the Swedish democrats want to be involved in. What happens when you build such a school? Well, as the reports have said, segregation is increasing. Housing segregation, which is bad in itself and is about an economic bourgeois policy that has led to the division of people into society based on colour and class, has also increased because of the bourgeois school reforms which, unfortunately, other parties have also voted in favour of in the 1990s. They have escalated in the 21st century, when the alliance parties were in power and Jan Björklund refused to listen to the research and profession and instead looked at what research from the 1930s had said about school policy. I think it is important that we also raise the issue of pupil democracy. Today, there are parties who believe that there is too much student democracy and that there is a fluke school when pupils are allowed to take part in it. But I think the best school is a research-based school where students also get to take part in and enjoy their schooling. In various municipalities where there are projects with student democratic elements, we can see that it has produced results when the students have been involved and built up their own school day. Finally, I would like to say that it has been good that many parties here want to invest in math, reading comprehension and other subjects in school. I think that is very important, and I have supported several of those proposals in the past. At the same time, however, we must admit that they will not solve all the problems. They may raise us in future PISA surveys, but if we have left the free choice of school as it stands today, the municipal head of the Swedish school and a win hunt that is totally unlimited and that we are alone in the world, the main problems will not be solved. The Left Party will continue to press the government to get more investment in schools. We will also come up with agreements where we can agree with the other parties and where it is research-based policy. But the Left Party will never agree to a bourgeois school policy that divides students and teachers and is also bad for those who will build a future in this country, that is, to train students to become democratic citizens. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-434	Mr President, I would like to Sweden must have an equal and strong knowledge school. All children and students should meet competent and qualified teachers who have high expectations and provide the right support with order and order in the classroom – a school where all children and students are seen and left behind. That's why the government is investing in teachers and schools. This is needed after the last government, where tax cuts were repeatedly made before children and students. In the budget bill, the government now provides 10 billions of wealth for increased quality and more employees at school and in other welfare sectors. The government also, including this year's budget, makes school investments of over 10 billion for 2017, in addition to the 10 welfare billions. These investments will be important to support the new trend that we are now seeing with increased knowledge results and to meet the great lack of teachers Sweden is facing and in the middle of. Mr President, I would like to From day to day, the government identified a shortage of teachers as a priority area. Sweden needs more teachers. And more people will want to be teachers. Therefore, we strengthen the teaching profession through the Teacher Salary Lift and continue with career services. For us, it is important that you can make a career without having to apply for new services. You should be rewarded for the specific tasks you take on within the framework of your current position. More will also be teachers. That is why we need to improve working conditions in schools by reducing administration and by ensuring that welfare billions are also used to employ more professions. More people will also be able to become teachers. When up to 60,000 teachers are missing by 2019, efforts are needed both to expand teacher training and to strengthen quality. Fortunately, universities and colleges across Sweden report that the search pressure for teacher education is increasing and that further expansion is possible without compromising quality. The government is therefore strengthening teacher training. In total, the Government's efforts will bring more than 10,000 new training places by 2021, and this will play a role. In addition to this, the government is investing in a series of measures to create more pathways to the teaching profession, and we are also investing in quality, including through teacher training research schools and by allocating nearly 1 billion to increase the number of teacher-led hours during the term of office. In a situation where efforts are really needed to meet the great lack of teachers Sweden faces, it is strange that, among other things, the Liberals want to close the subject teacher training programmes around Sweden. For me, the work of allowing every child to meet a qualified teacher goes ahead. Mr President, I would like to Swedish school now needs to continue hard and purposeful work. Both society and individuals spend money and time on many academic courses for teachers. These investments should not be wasted. Teachers should be allowed to use their skills and work with what they are trained for. They should be able to focus on teaching, planning the teaching and following it up and developing the teaching together with their colleagues. Politicians shouldn't do that. Teachers should also not be various workers at school. It is also essential for teachers to focus on their jobs to reduce inequalities in school and to ensure that all children have both the time and the opportunity to meet a qualified and competent teacher, not just children growing up in the major university cities. Mr President, I would like to Knowledge does not become less because it is shared by more. Sweden is a country that will compete with knowledge and competence, not with low wages. People should be able to live, work and develop wherever they live in the country. It is important that you can educate yourself throughout the country throughout your life. Therefore, the government is expanding the university from Norrland to Skåne with 18 000 seats by 2021, while investing in quality. We know that the expansion is needed for good growth and well-being and for people's opportunities to develop. An important issue for Swedish companies and for public activities is access to research, skills provision and competence development, not least outside the metropolitan regions. Proximity to higher education is necessary to broaden recruitment to the university and provide more opportunities to educate themselves but also to cope with the important skills supply to both Swedish industry and the public sector, not least important welfare areas such as health care, social services and school. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an internationally successful research and innovation country, but in recent years Sweden's position has relatively weakened. The public resources that are being provided therefore need to improve the quality of Swedish research, innovation and higher education in the long term. Sweden needs to become more attractive in order to increase business investment in research and development. In the autumn budget, the Government announces an increase in funding for research and innovation of over SEK 2.8 billion by 2020, of which SEK 1.6 billion is allocated to expenditure area 16. The investments are being developed in the research policy bill, which has been submitted to the Riksdag. Resource supplements include initiatives linked to today's major societal challenges: climate, digitalisation, health and life sciences, sustainable community building and research efforts that promote the quality of the Swedish school. We increase the basic funding for universities and higher education institutions by SEK 1.3 billion. This money should not be used to increase the number of researchers, but to strengthen quality, improve employment and provide a clear career structure. The focus of research policy is to increase quality and efficiency in a ten-year perspective, meet our major societal challenges and promote collaboration between academia and the surrounding society.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-449	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your speech! However, I am a little concerned that the speech breathed a certain amount of fatigue and, above all, a lack of vision and action on the issues I intend to raise with the Government. The research and that part I am handing over with a warm hand to my colleague Betty Malmberg, who will be giving a speech in a moment. We need to focus tremendously on teachers, and that is the responsibility of the Government. It is, of course, about pay. It's about skills development. But it is also about the extremely important part of teacher training. I see that this too is traditional social democratic policy, which focuses on quantity over quality. I think it is serious if we do not see the major quality deficiencies. We have had improved teacher training, but we still have a great deal to do. We need to raise the status of education if we are to get more people interested in being teachers. What the Government does not mention is the large percentage of drop-outs from our teacher education. In addition, there is a large proportion of teachers who, after a very short period of time, choose to quit their teaching service. Part of the whole is that there are eight hours of teacher-led teaching in teacher training – eight hours of teacher-led teaching. We Moderates invest 1.2 billion to strengthen the quality of teacher education. My first question to the Government is: Does the Government see that it is a problem that we have such low quality when it comes to that part, that there is so little time for teachers? What does the Government intend to do about this? Is the Government prepared to support the effort that we Moderates want to make to increase the teacher-led time?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-455	Mr President, I would like to It is a pity that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall has written lines and that she did not listen to my speech. I just mentioned that we need to increase the teacher-led time where it is too small. From the first year we have contributed money to higher education institutions and universities. You are making an effort that will start next year on its own but will not be fully developed until 2020. If there is talk of fatigue, I can say: I have at least been much more alert than the Moderates in putting forward a concrete proposal to add money precisely to increase the teacher-led time. We are following this closely and will evaluate it. It is very possible that further efforts will need to be made. However, it is also important that universities and higher education institutions prioritise their own resources and prioritise teacher education. If we are to have a world-class school, we must have a world-class teacher education. Then I think it is a pity that the myth of the excessive defection continues to be spread. There's a big dropout. That is why we are now proposing, for example, improved subject teacher training for grades 7 to 9. It is also a sign that there is no lack of proposals, visions or concrete reforms. I know you like your points of speech, but I also think it's important to admit that we do a lot of good things. We are building on a teacher education reform that has proved very good but needs to be further strengthened.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-459	Mr President, I would like to Government! What I like above all is not so much about a few points of speech, but about a series of study visits, visits in reality and meetings with teacher students. That is why we Moderates, together with both teachers' unions and student organisations, have put forward a number of proposals. We see that it is needed. These are proposals that the government has not responded to. It is a question of having equal teacher training – the equivalence begins with our training courses. It's about leadership. It's about enhanced special education. It's about digitalization skills. And with the challenge we face, it is perhaps, at the moment, above all, a language-developing way of working. This, Helene Hellmark Knutsson, is not something that only we Moderates see, but this sees the country's teacher students. The question is: why does the government not see this? My next question to the Government is about the Teacher Salary Lift. With all the contacts that I and my colleagues have, I assume that the Government must also be informed about some of what is happening in the country at the moment. I would like to say that we are behind the Teacher's salary boost in terms of the sum of money. But I'm thinking about what's happening right now. We see divisions and how teachers' teams are drawn apart. Is the Government satisfied with how the Teacher Salary Lift has been implemented? What we see is that the mobility of teachers is increasing and that more and more children are meeting a new teacher, perhaps even every semester. With the facts in hand, knowing what is happening right now and with the increased contacts that must also be in place with the Ministry, I wonder: Is the Government prepared to make any changes, or is the Government satisfied with how it has managed the implementation of the Teacher Salary Lift?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-463	Mr President, I would like to I'm very happy that the Moderates don't falter in everything but that you actually stand by the Teacher Salary Lift. It is one of our most important reforms that we are doing now. Swedish teachers' salaries have been lagging behind far too long and far too much. We are now making an effort that will help to increase the salary of some 60 000 teachers. However, it is very clear from the regulation and from the wording of the regulation that the aim is to stimulate the principals to improve the salary development of our teachers and preschool teachers. I agree that the implementation in some places has been poor. It hasn't been handled well. But it would not have helped if I had gone around and done that work as a minister. For the state should not take over either wage formation or wage setting. This will be done by the payroll manager. Locally, wage formation is also handled. This means that we need to have responsible heads who share the government's assessment that teachers' salaries must be raised.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-465	Mr President, I would like to I really have two questions. I'll see if I can get both. The first concerns what was mentioned in the speech by the Government, namely the lack of teachers. In my speech, I mentioned the great lack of teachers and the difficulty of getting young people to choose the teaching profession. The government says that more people will want to be teachers. My question then is: How? 60 000 teachers will be missing by 2020 if we do not take the necessary measures. If we were to cover that need in the future, every third university student today would have to attend the teacher programme. It won't happen. In my speech, I mentioned some possible ways to go. One is to give more academics with relevant academic education the opportunity to attend an abbreviated supplementary educational education. Today it is a year and a half. We can imagine shortening it to a year. It should then be alternated with practice, so that you also get the practical part. I and the Christian Democrats are curious about the government's response to our proposal. Will there be a review of a proposal for a shortened supplementary education and opening it up to more academics? For example, journalists could be considered when it comes to the great need for Swedish teachers and SFI teachers that we now have.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-469	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Eclund, for the very good and relevant questions! As I said in my speech: The way to more people wanting to become teachers but also to remain teachers is that there is an attractive teacher education but also an attractive teacher profession. There the government is now making a series of reforms. But that is exactly what the honourable Member says. We will not be able to educate the shortage with just long teacher training, but we must also get more people to want to change careers. It is about academics who already have subject knowledge and who can step in and make an effort in school with the right complementary education. Therefore, we are expanding the KPU, both directly to the higher education institutions and via the organisation Teach for Sweden. We offer special KPU for doctoral studies, and we make it possible to study at the same time as you can go in and work as a teacher, especially in the areas of deficiency. Me and the government think it's important that we open up more ways in. But we're not gonna have quick ways in, we're gonna have smart ways in. What all students need to face are competent, qualified and skilled teachers. In this case, time must be allowed for a relevant training that gives this competence.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-472	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I feel like we're working in the same direction. I would also like to have time for my second question, which relates partly to what my colleague, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, raised. The question is about the Teacher Salary Lift. Teachers' salaries need to be increased – we all think so, and we in the Christian Democrats are also behind this in our budget. There are many of us who welcome higher wages. My question is how this has been implemented in schools, where it has created friction and fragmentation. An old teacher friend called me on Sunday. He wanted to tell you that he had informed his principal that he is grateful that he has come to terms with the so-called Teacher Lift. However, he rejects, as this creates divisions in his team and bad atmosphere in the workplace. In a situation where we already have a great shortage of teachers, schools now feel that teachers are fleeing the profession, because they consider themselves unfairly treated. My question to the Government is therefore whether the Government feels any responsibility for how the raise has been implemented in schools.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-477	Mr President, I would like to I feel a great deal of responsibility for this. That is also why I called in the parties who were involved in the proposal on the Teacher's salary boost and, above all, the criteria to be used for the local wage formation process, not for the individual wage setting process. We discussed why it has worked in some places and why it has not worked elsewhere. It is obvious that those school leaders who already had a strategy for how to improve the salary development of their teachers, and who have worked on this locally in their wage formation, have succeeded much better. Unfortunately, many principals have never done this before. They have had annual salary audits since they have distributed a few hundred cents to everyone. Then one wonders why the salaries of Swedish teachers have been lagging behind for so long. This is due, among other things, to this very fact. That is why it is important to keep this up now and to give the heads time to create local wage formation and to have wage strategies that reward teachers over a full working life for the tasks they perform and for the training they undergo in the course of their profession. We should not remain in what we see and as the OECD has pointed out: that Sweden is a country where the starting salaries for teachers are not low but where wage developments over time in the profession are much worse than the OECD average. We need to value teachers' efforts much higher throughout their working lives.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-482	Mr President, I would like to I also have two questions that I would like to ask, and I take one at a time not to confuse it. I very much appreciate the Minister's ambition regarding the opportunities for the whole country – that education should be accessible to people regardless of their place of residence, age, gender, and so on. I appreciate the ambition to work to increase these opportunities. In connection with that, I have two different issues. The focus was on increasing the number of higher education places, while at the same time we see that there is a pressing need for polytechnic places. I am thinking about how the government has argued about the distribution between the different tracks of post-secondary education. I also have thoughts from a student perspective. There have been criticisms of the new system, which means that the quality of education is not monitored in the same way as before and that it will then be more difficult for students to choose education on the basis of quality criteria. Instead, you might make your choice on other grounds, such as well-known educational locations or strong academic traditions, which could disadvantage the smaller universities and the newer universities around Sweden for the benefit of the larger and older universities. What is the Minister's view on how to strengthen the opportunities for students to choose education based on quality criteria, based on the systems we have for measuring quality?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-487	Mr President, I would like to The government is now carrying out a major leap in knowledge. 21 000 of these places are for higher education. The remaining places are in, for example, the University of Applied Sciences, the University of Applied Sciences and Komvux. I will hand over with a warm hand to the Minister responsible for the Knowledgelift to talk about how important this is and how it is distributed. We do this based on how we view the need for skilled labour across the country at different levels. We all know what it was like with the previous quality evaluation system. It was so poor that Sweden was no longer allowed to participate in the European quality assurance work or in the organisation for quality assurance of higher education. It is incredibly important for students to be able to see how the education stands in a European context, and preferably they should also be able to see how it stands internationally. This should not only apply in a national context. Now we have a quality evaluation system that is being implemented and that will be able to evaluate more aspects of the training. With this, it will also be a way of strengthening quality everywhere, which is what is important to me. I also think that it is quality development and a good quality culture at all universities that should be rewarded. For the students, it is also about the right and possibilities to influence the quality of the education through strong student influence.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-492	Mr President, I would like to I thank Helene Hellmark Knutsson for the answer and turn to my second question. It concerns something that my alliance colleagues have previously touched upon. The teacher's salary lift is affected in different ways by how it has been implemented or disadvantaged. Have I got it wrong, or does the Minister think that, in cases where there has been no success, the local politicians have misunderstood what they should be doing? The criteria have been developed jointly. Is it the case, then, that you have not understood your mission? Is that how I'm supposed to interpret the minister? There has been a conflict in many places. Teachers, principals and politicians feel that they do not really master this situation. That is why I wonder whether it is the case that we have made a mistake about the mission we have been given.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-495	Mr President, I would like to I wouldn't put it that you got it wrong. One thing that I have taken on is that I and the government had to be even clearer with the purpose of the Teacher's salary lift. It is clear from the text of the regulation that this should stimulate the principals to improve the salary development of the categories of staff included in the entire Teacher's salary boost. However, some municipalities have seen this as a state grant that is to be technically distributed on the basis of an Excelark and have not taken it into their local wage work. I'd say it's a habit to work that way. Unfortunately, for 20 years, when you have been responsible for wage formation, teachers' salaries have fallen behind. We have a corps that has a wage trend that is worse than the OECD average. The teacher's salary lift aims to change this and ensure that you can get a better salary development over time with clear criteria and with just predictability. A lot of criticism has been that it was not predictable how the distribution was done. This shows that we need to give teachers' salaries more time to enable the payroll managers to work with it and above all to ensure that those responsible for the salary formation of teachers, a local issue at the main level, develop wage strategies to improve the salary development of our teachers. This is the way forward to make the teaching profession an attractive profession, together with improving working conditions and working conditions and ensuring that teachers can be teachers.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-498	Mr President, I would like to The minister had the luck and the opportunity to sit at a dinner a few weeks ago next to Master Jakobsson. We had a nice conversation at the time, which I thought I would further develop here. I will speak to you today, Minister, not as a politician, but as a teacher. I'll try to describe what my situation looked like. I hear many times how we talk about more and more teachers and would rather talk about more knowledgeable and knowledgeable teachers, because the people who are being trained today are my and other colleagues' future colleagues out in the country. If there is one thing we have been bad at, it is catching up on the training proposals that have been in place. We are quite good at getting them started, but unfortunately we then dump them into the municipalities, and then they fall completely. Many initiatives that have been decided here in Parliament are good and have good intentions but unfortunately fall when they come down to teacher level. When I talk to my colleagues today, I still talk to them as a teacher. There are 59,000 teachers-- that's the last number I heard-- working in business, not in school. There's the problem. No matter how many teachers we miss, there are so many teachers there, but they will not come back. The same applies to me as a politician. I will not go back to school until the work environment improves and there is a career system, a completed career system that is not dependent on the principal. Mr President, I would like to The Shanghai method, which we have talked about, assumes that the teachers themselves work with this side by side, not a principal who spends the money. I have no objection whatsoever to teachers having higher salaries, but with higher wages it must follow a responsibility, and there is mentoring. Then the question I would like to put to the Minister here now is: are we really going to invest in more and not knowledgeable teachers? Isn't it time to introduce some kind of lower cognitive and social boundary? Or should we continue to train teachers who enter Borås school with the result 0.05 on the university exam?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-504	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Jakobsson! The answer, as so often, is that we have to do both. The number of children and pupils is increasing for the first time since the 1950s in Swedish preschools and at all stages of school. At the same time, we see that in the next few years some 30 000 teachers will retire. When we compare with what it looks like in the OECD, we have an ageing teaching staff, just as we have in many other parts of the labour market, and these teachers are to be replaced. And I can't tell any student that it won't meet a qualified teacher, because we know that's the key. Then, as the Member of Parliament says, we will have knowledgeable and competent teachers, and we have many of them out in our schools. But they also need further training and knowledge development in the profession. It will also, as you say, lead to a higher salary, hence the Teacher's Lift. It is precisely one of the things to be rewarded without having to change the position, but it is within the framework of the position you have as a teacher. Now there's a lot of work going on. The School Commission and the study on professional strengthening of the teaching profession should look at what a professional programme should look like and how the state should be able to take increased responsibility. I share the image that there have been many good intentions but that when they are to be implemented by 290 principals and a number of free schools it does not always be the way it was intended from the beginning. We must ensure that all teachers are given this opportunity, but, as I said, this will also lead to it being visible in the pay envelope.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-507	Mr President, I would like to It's nice that we have the same view of many things. As time passes, I think we will have an increasingly common view of the school, because I think everyone in here has understood how important the school is. If the education falls, Sweden will fall over time. We open up places for more people to train. It may be an advantage that we have more people training, but not if the admission requirements are as low as they are today. Then I would rather have the places that exist but with high quality, because if I can choose between my child going to a class with 25 students, which is the actual number everywhere, and with a teacher who does not meet the standards or in a class of 30 students and a teacher who is fantastically competent and knowledgeable, I choose the latter. It is a very large year-old teacher who is about to leave the Swedish school now. Why not let them finish their time as mentors? We have a lot of good people coming out of the system. And we have had teacher training that has not been up to date for the last ten or fifteen years in terms of the requirements of school today and, above all, in terms of flexibility. Then my question is: how about carrying out a national level at all teacher training courses, so that students who attend teacher training are compared qualitatively with students who go to all teacher colleges, as we have proposed? I hope that the Minister is prepared to take a look at this proposal as well as at the possibility for the older teachers who are leaving today to pass on a little time as mentors and have paid for it too, so that the skills available are exploited. Many of the teachers today are certainly good, but they lack the tools. It is precisely the tools that can improve the working environment, especially when it comes to external circumstances. For example, we could control the national part. A nationalization of many parts of the school, I think, would be good for the school. We already have ready-made bodies to take care of these tasks. With regard, for example, to simple things such as sound, light, air and surface, I promise that if we had impaired the sound, light, surface and air in here, we would not have had as good a debate as we have had today. These are national issues that we can address. Many of the proposals have been drawn up on the basis of my colleagues. As Master Jakobsson, I say to the Minister that I really hope that we can come up with future good proposals that make all of us 59 000 teachers who do not work in school willing to go back, that there is a career opportunity that is not dependent on the Vice-Chancellor and that it is a working environment that is worthy of the name for me and my colleagues as well as the students.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-513	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that it is an opportunity for the principals to give the opportunity for those who are about to retire or may even have retired to extend their working life, provided, of course, that that is what you want. We need them in Swedish school. Our children and students need them in Swedish school. And just as the Member of Parliament says, it is also good for the newly graduated teachers to have an older mentor with long experience who can contribute. They can play a major role as mentors and mentors. I also know that there are many who have retired who are making a contribution in Swedish schools now. I see this as one of many opportunities to face the lack of teachers that we are in the midst of. Efforts are also being made with the Swedish National Agency for Education to facilitate the return to school for those who have left the school profession and want to get back to it, now that you see that things are actually happening with the teachers' salaries and that the working environment has improved. A great deal is being done, and more is, of course, to be done. It is a cooperation between school leaders and state that is required. When it comes to teacher training, remember that the admissions themselves and the admission points only say something about the search pressure. There are low admission points even for engineering training. No one believes that those who complete an entire engineering education are not capable of the profession they are going to pursue. The same must apply to teacher training. It's not the point that you've got into, but the progression during the training that should be crucial. That's why we need to work for such a good and strong teacher training that everyone can feel safe and secure that if you have passed it, you are well prepared and able in your profession – just like when it comes to engineers.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-517	Mr President, I would like to It is fun to be here and listen and participate in a debate about perhaps the most important thing we have, namely our entire Swedish education system and the major investments made in education. It is a worn-out cliché, but education is important and crucial. If it is something that can be pointed out as crucial for young people's opportunities in society, it is a completed upper secondary school education. Ever since the government took office, the focus has been on three clear priorities in education policy. Firstly, it is an early intervention; secondly, it is an equal school; and thirdly, it is an attractive teaching profession – all of this with knowledge and education at the centre. These priorities color the government's efforts, and it is through them that we hope to contribute to and create an equal school with a focus on knowledge and education. It also takes quite smart investments in adult education to continue to strengthen the Swedish model. Education should be something that exists for everyone for the rest of their lives. In Sweden, no one should have to worry that children and young people do not receive the education and support they need to achieve the knowledge goals. Therefore, it is an important goal that all schools should be good schools. All parents should be able to send their children safely to the nearest school and be confident that their children receive the best possible education. The school needs to focus on the knowledge mission. Formation should permeate both teaching and education. If we are to get there, it is of course necessary that the resources intended for teachers and students go to knowledge and education and not to other things. Mr President, I would like to The school should reduce the gaps in society, not increase them. Therefore, it was with mixed feelings that I recently received the results of the latest international knowledge measurements. In both PISA 2015 and Timss, we see a joyful trend break in knowledge development and knowledge results. But we also see in both these surveys worrying signs that the gaps in Swedish schools are increasing. We see that home conditions are becoming more and more important to school. It can be about having a place at home to do the homework, about the number of books in the bookshelf and about the parents' educational background. It is unacceptable that this should play a role in the ability of pupils to achieve good results in school. It is contrary to our social contract, to the legislation that builds up the Swedish school and to what we need in order to develop a society based on growth. Knowledge and growth have a very strong connection. I would like to stress that PISA and Timss provide us with good and useful information about equality and inequality in Swedish schools. However, in order to be able to speak on equality on a secure and secure basis, we also need the Swedish statistical sources. It is therefore important that we continue to follow developments and see how we can understand the increasing inequality also with the support of the Swedish statistics. In order to strengthen education in schools and increase equality, the Government has established the Collaboration for Best School initiative. My colleagues here have already talked about it, and this effort is important to ensure better education in those schools where the challenges are greatest. We can also extend the investment for newly arrived students to the entire school system. Not least for me as High School Minister, it is gratifying that this initiative can also apply to the whole of high school. We also extend the experimental activities with increased teaching time in Swedish and Swedish as a second language. As the OECD writes in the post-report report, we must also take into account school governance in relation to inequality. Like many others, I look forward to the School Commission's final report in April, not least in view of the worrying signs we see of increasing differences. Mr President, I would like to The changes made by the previous government in upper secondary school have had a major impact on, among other things, our professional programmes. We see a worrying decrease in interest in education. As we have discussed before, it is education that is the basis for the skills supply of industry and welfare. The government therefore appointed 2016 as the year of vocational education and training, and we want these efforts to continue over the coming years in order to highlight the professional skills and opportunities for work and self-employment provided by the fine vocational education and training. We also want to introduce a pilot project with industry schools. When it comes to adult learning in general, the government is investing heavily in this budget through a new knowledge boost. Adult education always plays an important role in Sweden's skills supply and the possibility of transition, but the question is whether it has ever been more important than now. The efforts include a significant increase in the number of training places in Komvux, vocational adult and polytechnic. In the budget, the Government proposes an increase in the number of seats at the university of applied sciences. We have also put forward a proposal to strengthen the quality of universities of applied sciences, on which Parliament has recently voted. Above all, the government proposes a well-developed career and a right to komvux from the turn of the year. We are doubling the number of training places at vocational level, and we are introducing a regional professional qualification for collaboration between municipalities and the business community. I note that nine out of ten have jobs one year after completing their education. Mr President, I would like to Today, it is three months since I was appointed as High School Minister and Minister of Knowledge. I am the only one who is paying attention to this date, but I really am. I must thank the Members of Parliament, including all the members of the Education Committee, for the warm and generous reception I have received. I also thank you for the debates we have had so far and look forward to more. I note that, in terms of the responsibilities that I have the pleasure of dealing with in the government, there are areas where we have serious disagreements. I'm looking forward to a hard fight here. But there are also large areas where we do not disagree, but where there is a strong consensus both in society and in school and within parliament. In these areas, I look forward to good cooperation to strengthen the opportunities for a long-term positive development of Swedish schools.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-536	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we have two out of three responsible ministers in the Chamber. I miss Gustav Fridolin but understand that there has been a distribution, and Minister Anna Ekström still spent four and a half minutes of her speaking time talking about the responsibility of Minister Fridolin, which was positive. I would like to go back to the discussion Anna Ekström and I had in a previous line change. It worries me that Anna Ekström chooses to read PISA with ideological glasses instead of reading what actually says. Here I refer to the part about school elections. PISA draws Sweden's attention to the need to improve the ability of socially weak families to obtain information about schools and support them in making informed choices. It also adds that we need to look at the introduction of some kind of controlled school elections. The Moderates are happy to participate in a discussion on how to improve this, because we are of the same opinion. In the sense that we are discussing this further, the systems of those countries that do not have the amazing things we have in Sweden are called into question, namely the right for all children to be able to choose regardless of their economic background. We need to reinforce the possibility for children and parents to make informed school choices. How does the Government think we should do that? Does the Government not think that parents and students are better placed to make these choices than politicians?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-541	Mr President, I would like to I am opposed to correcting Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, but in the PISA study, which I have studied very carefully, there is nothing about recommendations from the OECD. On the other hand, it does so in a number of other publications. The OECD has pointed out to us that the Swedish system is very different. Compared to other systems, it is a system that very little ensures and results in increased equivalence. This is a major problem, but the government has great hopes that we will get a bit along the road thanks to the school commission that we have set up. Anyone who looks out at the outside world and compares our Swedish school system with others sees that, just as Lena Hallengren said in her speech, it is unique. We have a school system that ensures far too little that students from different backgrounds get to know each other. My counter question is: Does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall think it is important that the school is a meeting place? Does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall think that it is a positive force if students from different backgrounds meet, become friends, fall in love with each other, become enemies and get to know each other so that together they can build the future society? If Camilla Waltersson Grönvall thinks it is an advantage, in what way does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall want to use today's system to ensure that students also get to know each other in school? I think we agree that it is important that we have a school system where there is freedom of choice and where there are independent schools. But this school system should also ensure that we have a school that stays together.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-546	Mr President, I would like to I must say that I welcome the message from the Government that it wants to retain a school election and that it sees the independent schools as the resource they are. I think this is a good starting point for continuing a discussion between the alliance parties and the government. That is an extremely important starting point for us. I do not see any proposals on how to change the school elections that the ministers have questioned on several occasions. I want to bounce back to hear how the government believes that this can be ensured. We have heard proposals on bushings and other interventions from politicians in the past. I think that's stupid. Instead, we need to give parents and students more opportunity to make informed school choices. That's where I think we're going to make the big efforts. And when I read now, it was exactly inside what PISA says. I want to go back to my second question. I was a little concerned when, a short time ago, I and the Government met in a debate in Agenda. There Anna Ekström said that it was a truth with modification when I pointed out that social democrats and environmentalists in all contexts where we have had the opportunity to press the button in this House have voted against more mathematics. I was a little worried about the answer, especially when we know that every minute and every hour with a skilled math teacher means a lot to our students' learning and knowledge. There the research is clear. After we have now introduced more mathematics in grades 1 to 3 and forced the government to introduce it in grades 4 to 6, I wonder: Why is it still so reluctant to introduce it? Why could this not have been a reality? What did the government mean when she said it was a truth with modification? Does the Government deny that it has opposed any proposals for more mathematics?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-552	Mr President, I would like to It is always as interesting to discuss the issue of independent schools, school elections and the like because the discussion so easily becomes very emotional. I have stressed in many different contexts, as a minister, how important it is for us to unite a system in which we have freedom of choice and independent schools with a strengthened equivalence. I am convinced that this is possible, and many other countries have shown it. The OECD indicates that this is possible. What has not proved possible are the results that we have seen in the Swedish school, where equivalence has steadily deteriorated. It's a big problem. We should be grateful that this is reflected in the OECD's various studies, and we should be glad that we are receiving well-founded advice from the OECD on this point. Let me also add that in the case of independent schools it is one thing that separates Sweden from many other countries, such as the other Nordic countries, and that is that with our school selection system and our school market-based school we see that it is the large school groups that are increasing in number, not the non-profit independent schools. I am convinced that it is possible to combine the possibility of choosing a school with a system where there are independent schools with a strengthened equivalence. I am still waiting and in vain for answers from Camilla Waltersson Grönvall to the question of whether it is important that students from different backgrounds meet and get to know each other. I am also waiting in vain for constructive proposals to strengthen equivalence. But I am hopeful that I will get it through the school commission that will soon come. I'm very glad the government has added it. I see that I have completely failed in timekeeping. I blame it on my routine as a minister, but I'm sure we'll get back to the opportunity to answer the question of math hours later.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-557	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Ekström, for your speech. However, I would have liked to hear more about the area of adult education. I got a pass from Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson that we would return to university of applied sciences issues, and we will have a chance to do so in a change of line. My question to Hellmark Knutsson was about distribution. For me and the Center Party, post-secondary education becomes two different tracks that may not be brought together, although the university has polytechnic education to a certain extent and there is a lot of association there. We know that there is a great need for polytechnic education. There are industries that are screaming for skills. We know that there are also a large number of applications. The authority itself believes that it would have wanted to say yes to at least half of the applications where it is allowed to say no. My question to Anna Ekström is: In what way does one reason? At least in my view, it seems that the investment in higher education is much greater than that in polytechnic places. I would like clarification on the ideas surrounding the different tracks linked to the supply of skills. Some professional courses are within the university, but to a large extent they are within the university of applied sciences. I'm looking forward to it.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-561	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Ulrika Carlsson, and for the opportunity to talk a little more about the University of Applied Sciences! Parliament has recently discussed the University of Applied Sciences. It is wonderful, because this is an area where I think it is much more that unites us in Parliament than what separates us. We agree that the University of Applied Sciences is an important part of Swedish education. We are also all well aware of the important role the university of applied sciences can play in order not least to do what does not really fit in ordinary adult education. It is fascinating to see how much pressure it is when it comes to starting university of applied sciences but also participating in them. I am delighted with the effort we have been able to make in the budget. It is great – we have really built the university of applied sciences properly in the budget, and also in previous budgets. Furthermore, the fact that we have a great deal of investment in higher education does not seem to me to be a negative thing, but I think it is a positive thing. I believe that we need an extension and greater investment both in higher education and in universities of applied sciences. I would like to take this opportunity to mention something else. Both in Ulrika Carlsson's post and in the previous change of line, it was suggested that I am in and speak a little too much in Gustav Fridolin's area. I can say that I do with great joy. Gustav Fridolin and I are colleagues. We are in the same government, and we are in the same policy. We are also very proud to be able to present each other's efforts in various discussions and debates. The education system is connected. It is of great importance to the whole education system that all systems work together.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-567	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clarification. Let me return to polytechnics. My question was about distribution. I also see no reason why you can't bet on both. Looking at the distribution, there seems to be an enormous need for polytechnic places. I cannot see that this would be an unusual part of adult education, while komvux and professional adult education would be the usual part of adult education. Higher education is, as I see it, a different track. I would like to hear more about the future thinking about how that part of the education system can be further developed, and how, so to speak, we can supply Sweden with skills in all the specialisations that exist within the university of applied sciences. Of the number of competence lifts – was it 21 000? – it sounded like the majority would go to higher education places and that a much smaller part would be divided between Komvux, vocational adult and polytechnic education. I would like to hear what is the background to this. Then I understand that it was fun for Anna Ekström, who was previously Director General, to receive the PISA survey together with Gustav Fridolin. Of course there is a great deal of commitment there. But my questions are more about university of applied sciences.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-573	Mr President, I would like to The University of Applied Sciences is a growing form of education in Sweden, and that is very good. The results we see are very promising. We see that there is a great deal of interest. For all of us who quite often visit different polytechnics, it is fascinating to see the commitment of students in polytechnics. It is often people who work full - time and study half - time or the like. It is also very gratifying that the University of Applied Sciences is a form of education where we have been able to work with an extension and with a quality effort in great agreement across different party boundaries. I look forward to continued good cooperation on the university of applied sciences. I also look forward to a lot of quality initiatives. One thing that really beats you when you visit a university of applied sciences is such a classic thing as the very skewed gender distribution. The university of applied sciences, like the vocational programmes of upper secondary school, is characterised by very traditional professional choices. There are certainly great opportunities in the future to contribute to a slightly less gender-disaggregated labour market also through the University of Applied Sciences. I thank you very much for these constructive and positively focused issues and look forward to a very good continuation of cooperation on important efforts that we can make within the framework of the University of Applied Sciences.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-578	Mr President, I would like to Last year, the government invested a total of over SEK 53 000 million in higher education and research. There is an incredible amount of money, but it is also for Sweden important and well-invested money that creates new knowledge, new innovations and business opportunities for the future. The level of these funds was greatly increased during the alliance years. The fact that such large investments could be made was due to the fact that the alliance government in its time actually had order in the economy, despite several years of unrest in the outside world. Examples of how this has affected universities and colleges in other countries are in fact found at close range, where, among others, Finland and Denmark have been forced to make huge savings in their higher education system. With so much money, however, it is also a matter of wisely managing the crowns. Therefore, the issue of quality in higher education and research is so important, not least for students to know that they are well equipped and meet the expectations and needs of the business community and public sector. This may seem self-evident. But the fact is, the government doesn't seem to be on the same track. Instead, the government opts out of the opportunities to reward quality. I am thinking of the SEK 300 million earmarked by the Alliance Government to benefit the best educations. They literally disappeared in last year's budget, and this day after the Parliament's decision had been made. Well, the government has at least made it clear this year that the money does not exist, which in itself honours it. But, as I said, the students are affected. In the same way, the government handles quality in research. During the alliance years, money was redistributed to the universities that had had the most qualitative research. But this year the government introduced a partly new principle, which meant that the money was instead spent so that all universities received at least SEK 5 million each. The remaining funds were grouped into something that could be likened to an A-, B- and C-team. One example that is very telling – you must not take this word for word – is that Blekinge T ekniska H ögskola, where you are certainly very good in many research areas, with the government's new system received a lot of money that Karolinska I nstitutet, KI, received. And KI is an institute that last year ranked number 28 among the world's leading universities. It's gonna be a little weird. Friend of order may wonder why I dwell on how the money was distributed this year. But the fact is that the government in its new bill on higher education, research and innovation does not provide information on how to deal with these increased basic grants the next time money is to be distributed, and it will be 2018. I think that is very undemocratic. This kind of principle should be decided by the Riksdag, as happened during the alliance years. Quality can also be about how much teacher-led time the students get. In this regard, it is very bad in many places. The organization TCO usually investigates this, and in general their reports show that about half of the students do not get more than nine hours a week. It's just as bad at teacher training. In view of the importance of teachers in raising learning outcomes in schools and contributing an upward injection throughout the education chain, the Moderates have chosen to make a strong contribution to teacher training. Then we are really talking about strong investments of SEK 300 million next year. That is an amount that we will increase for a few years to come by the same amount. In 2018, it is about SEK 600 million, and the goal is for us to increase teaching time by 50 per cent. Mr President, I would like to Quality in higher education is also about students being able to make informed choices. But the new quality evaluation system does not provide that information. We reacted to this in the Alliance and actually received support from more parties, which means that the Riksdag has asked the government to ensure that this is resolved, so that future students can compare quality in educations. I hope that the government will meet this decision as soon as possible, because it is nothing more than a requirement of decency. Why? I have been thinking about what higher education today means as a private economic investment and what it is actually about when we look at the education premium. Education premium is a concept that is used when you look at how much it pays for the individual student to learn. The education premium is low in Sweden. In fact, Sweden is the lowest in all OECD countries. Then it is incredibly important that the students at least have a chance to choose the right one. This is an issue that is particularly important for students whose families lack a tradition of study. So please, the government, deliver! Another aspect of quality is that all education and research, particularly in the field of humanities and social sciences, are often disadvantaged in terms of access to research infrastructure. In today's society there are great demands in this area. We Moderates think that this is an overlooked area that should have been addressed for a long time. We have tried to draw attention to the issue in the past, but the government is still sitting. What you're waiting for, I don't know. Therefore, it becomes a little absurd when the government in its research proposal is widely known about the importance of digitalisation, but then it focuses only on research. Where did higher education disappear? Think, for example, of the teachers who come out to meet and be able to use new digital technology linked to pedagogy and didactics in the classroom. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would just like to point out that it looks a little thin with funding for research by the Moderates. This is not the case in practice. We match all the Government's efforts, and we also increase them already in 2017 and 2018 by 250 million each year. It is money we will ensure, among other things, to increase the basic grant with in practice, but more about it when the research bill comes. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the audience to our special opinion in the report and wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-592	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Malmberg for her speech. Betty Malmberg was very much concerned with the well-managed economy that the bourgeois government should have left behind. The truth is that extremely large deficits were left behind after having implemented unfunded tax cuts, which always had to take precedence over investments in schools, for example. However, it is true that a great deal of investment was made in research – without leading to higher quality. I am concerned that the alliance government would have continued these unfunded tax cuts if it had been left in place and could not spend any money on research in the future, because of the large deficits they led to. When it comes to the theme of saving money, I am a little concerned that the Moderates, in the midst of the great shortage of teachers as it needs to be done so much, choose to dust off a seven-year-old proposal for a degree premium in order to get more people to train as teachers. This was condemned even then and was nothing the government went on to do, which is good because it is a rare costly proposal with incredibly poor hit surface. Therefore, I wonder: if it is so important to save money and use it smartly, for example in order to strengthen teacher training, why choose to recycle bad proposals that simply involve throwing money into the lake?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-595	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. We are facing a very difficult situation. The Government itself has repeated how difficult it is for us to recruit people for the important teacher training courses, for example. Then it is important to also dare to try different methods. What was bad seven years ago may not be today, and I see that the Council of State itself has used this as an example when it comes to getting the dissertations to come back and read educational qualifications. We do not really know what results will be successful, but we grope and must try. I think we agree that we need to get more teachers back in the classrooms – and also more who have doctoral studies as a basis. Hellmark Knutsson has a bit of a glitch when it comes to the money. I just have to say that Mr Knutsson actually said in his speech, if I understood correctly, that during the term of office there was an increase of almost 1 billion to increase the number of teacher-led hours. I would like to ask Helene Hellmark Knutsson if I understood it correctly, because that is essential. The investment is about SEK 875 million. It's pretty far from 1 billion. It is important to keep track of the zeros here, because it is actually a difference of 125 million crowns. It is also the case that the initiative you are making, the Government, is about the whole humsam area – at least as it says in the bill. It is important to clarify. The Moderates invest SEK 300 million extra on teacher-led time for teacher training. I would like the Minister to develop this a little.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-599	Mr President, I would like to I thank Betty Malmberg. I do not think this is the time to fumble, but I think it is the time to move forward with real reforms. It is quite right that there are 875 million – almost 1 billion, I said – during the term of office. As I said, we are not waiting until 2020 to have this fully expanded, as the Moderates are doing with their efforts. Educational science counts as just a humsam area. It is important that universities take a great responsibility to strengthen the quality of teacher education, as I said earlier. I share the view on research links in teacher education; that's why we have the KPU to get more researchers educated in school, and we propose in the research bill 90 million to more graduate schools and postgraduate places for teacher education. In connection with Betty Malmberg's speech, I would also like to say that an incredibly important aspect of quality in higher education is that there is a strong connection with research. I regret that it is not seen that this is important even in the country's higher education institutions and in the new universities. What we did when we redistributed the SEK 300 million was to create a guarantee amount and different groups but at the same time continue to distribute according to quality. With this, we were able to guarantee that all higher education institutions and universities had a strong research connection in their education. We are now working on this with regard to the upcoming research bill, through an increased guarantee amount per student, but we also complement the quality measurements of the basic grants with collaborative premium ring. I hope that this is what the Moderates can support and that they share the view that we need a strong research link in all higher education throughout the country.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-603	Mr President, I would like to Of course we are behind the research link. After all, it was the Alliance government that introduced the research money, every student carries with them. You raise it, Helene Hellmark Knutsson, but it was actually the alliance government that introduced it. I therefore believe that we have confirmed what the Government is asking for. This has come to be a little bit about how we manage resources, and then I have to take the opportunity to ask a question. I know I have asked the question in writing, but now I am also asking it orally. This concerns the strategic research areas, the Minister. It was therefore ten years of investment that the alliance government introduced because we saw that these were important areas of strength for Sweden, for Swedish research and for future business opportunities. These were already evaluated in 2015, when the government was asked to reallocate resources. When I have asked questions about this, the government has said that this will come in the research bill – delay and stay still in the boat! Now that I look at the budget, it turns out that VR, i.e. the Swedish Research Council, has its funding for these areas until 2020. I therefore wonder, Minister, why you have not in any way invested in redistributing these resources in the past. If these are investments that you do not think were good enough, is it right to continue to invest in them for another five years? I also want to include a question concerning autonomy at Dalarna University. It's a story where the government goes in and governs what the university's management has wanted. I think this is a serious violation of autonomy, but I have a question. Now you demand that at Campus Borlänge there should be one research link to the programme per se. How do you view this? How's it gonna go? ( First VICE TALMANN: Since the Government is not entitled to more lines, the questions may be considered rhetorical. )
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-608	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by insisting on the same thing as Stefan Jakobsson. I just wanted to make a few brief comments. The Moderates were in favour of increased basic funding, and that is gratifying. So are we. It is money that goes directly to higher education institutions and promotes academic freedom and free research. It is extremely important that the basic funding is large and represents a large part of the funding for research given to universities. Countries with successful research have a large share of basic funding. There are problems with money that goes through the state institutions, such as the Swedish Research Council and others. They require co-financing and are tied up, and the research is steered in a different way. So we probably have too little basic funding in Sweden, and we want it to increase. As far as the SFO areas are concerned, we're gonna keep them. But they're too many, too big, and they're eating too much money. If an area is to be prioritised, it shall be a real priority. If you have a huge number of areas, there will be no priority at all. Someone mentioned educational science. It's great that we invest in educational science. But it is not because of educational science that Sweden has collapsed as a stone in international studies. It is not that we previously had an education and pedagogy based on science and that in time it has become less science. That's not where the problem lies. It's about problems around the school. There are problems with control, problems with the structure of the school. And the big problem is the customer relationship between students and teachers. Of course it should be researched in educational science. But it alone – classroom science and pedagogy – will not solve the problems of today's school.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-613	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Robert Stenkvist for perhaps the shortest budget statement in history. It was short and concise. But it still prompts me to ask Robert Stenkvist a few questions. In your draft budget, you say that you want to investigate teacher training. It is a bit interesting considering that they were launched in 2011 and that there are hardly any students who have been able to get out. In addition, UKÄ, the University Chancellor's Office, will review this starting next year. They've announced that for a long time. I am a little curious about what you expect and for what reason you find it important to do it now. I have another question related to teacher training. You put forward a proposal for salary; those who have a science education, at master's or master's level, should be able to study pedagogical studies for a year to become a teacher – if I have understood it correctly. You previously said no to shorten the study time for those who have a PhD, who have studied for another four, maybe five, years at the university. You do not see that there is a level difference there, that longer study time should make them better prepared to be able to study in a shorter time? It would be the same time as the students get in your proposal.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-617	Madam President, I would like We know that teacher education has been reformed over time and that it has been done often. You can't do it all the time. That's exactly right. We need to have a teacher training that lands somewhere. I can relate to what I said in the speaker's chair. We do not believe that the problems in today's school have to do directly with teaching education, but with things around it. One such thing is how to handle the classroom. I know it's part of today's teacher training. I've attended the leisure education program myself. It was even there. But we would need to strengthen that part. The subject knowledge and just how to control the classroom need to be reviewed. That is a major problem. Perhaps the biggest problem today is that there is no study in the classroom. And it's the teacher who runs the classroom. Many schools fail to do so, for various reasons. We must look at teacher training, even though we cannot reform it forever. With regard to our proposal on salary – the second proposal mentioned by Betty Malmberg – I do not know in detail about it. I have read it carefully, but there has been some time since then. There is one reason why we do not support it. But our suggestion is to have a shortcut to get more teachers. We have never thought that it would be a big addition, but that there would be a small gutter among other gutters.
i-ToFQpdXHJZ2b9BmSX5qwLh	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answers, Robert Stenkvist! Of course we have to try different paths. But maybe I don't think this is the best way forward. It becomes very narrow and specialized. If you did not believe that the doctoral students could do so in a shorter time, you may not have the expectations of those who have much shorter periods of education and who do not have higher education education. As far as teacher training is concerned, we Moderates agree with some of the points made by Robert Stenkvist. There is a lack and need for more leadership, second language learning, special pedagogy and so on in education. These are things that we have also brought forward. But we do so in a different context, and we do not believe that a new investigation would solve the problem. There is a point in initially waiting for the University Chancellor's Office's views and in looking at how the new teachers work out in their new workplaces. The Swedish democrats are making a rather substantial reduction in the field of education. This is about SEK 1.3 billion. I would like to have a comment on that. I also have to ask Robert Stenkvist about the fantastic investment you make at Luleå University of Technology in the order of 60 million on the education, and I think there was just as much on the research. I understand this is about metallurgy. But what do the Swedish democrats know that the rest of us do not know about?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-627	Madam President, I would like We know quite a lot of things that have been unfamiliar in this House for many years. We want to invest in the basic industries, on forest and ore. That is a clear signal about it. Then, of course, the money must go out in such a way that it can be absorbed. We can't just shovel money you can't spend. But we want to invest in the Swedish basic industries. We think it's the future. I have read about similar things in other writings. I don't know if it was in the research bill now, but more people are starting to believe it. We can't just live off the service community. In fact, it was written about it in the research bill... on the last page, I think. I think it was the word new industrialisation that the government used on the last page of its research bill. I was so happy when I read it. So this is a signal that we want to bet on it. As far as the reduction in training is concerned, I know that we have redeployed appropriations. We have taken from the envelope 1:5– I think – and moved large amounts of money. Among other things, we have a proposal on career services that we want to invest in. Of course, we must also ensure that our budget is consistent. Betty Malmberg mentioned a new study of teacher training. We want to look again at the very things I mentioned. We're sure there's a flaw right there. This does not mean that we need to reform the whole of teacher education once again. As far as the public defenders are concerned, we did not think that many people would take advantage of the proposal.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-633	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by highlighting higher education and research that is extremely important for society and for individuals. We will have to return to the discussion on research with a view to the recent research proposal, and we will give our physical response by tomorrow at the latest. I was going to focus on higher education in this speech. There is a need for high-quality access to higher education throughout the country that strengthens people's access to both jobs and security. Today, Sweden's higher education is of very high quality, and that is something we should be happy about. But we must also continue to develop higher education so that we can survive in international competition. This requires substantial reforms to strengthen quality, to improve internationalisation, to increase cooperation and to establish a better link with the world of work. Higher education is facing a number of challenges today. Half of the students are dissatisfied with the work relationship in their education. Higher education in Sweden today pays very little compared to how it pays off in other countries. It takes a long time for Swedish students to complete higher education, and the rate of throughput is therefore low. People are becoming established in the labour market more and more later at a time when they need to work more and more hours. During the autumn we have seen problems linked to internationalisation. Students have not had the opportunity to come to Sweden because of Swedish bureaucracy and long processing times. Doctoral students and students in Sweden applying for an extended residence permit may not stay or have to leave the country in the middle of an education due to processing times and bureaucracy. We also see varying quality in higher education. There may be a great deal of difference between different universities. In some educations there is very little time for training and teacher-led time. These are the challenges of higher education that the Center Party wants to focus on, and that requires reforms. I would like to begin by welcoming the fact that the Government has made proposals for the development, evaluation and better investigation of the resource allocation system. These issues are very important to the Center Party and we have been running them for a long time. It goes without saying that the report on the resource allocation system that has been presented should take place quickly and take into account how to strengthen the quality of higher education. How to improve interaction with the world of work and create a greater link between higher education and the labour market? Most students choose to train to get a special job or to get a job at all. Therefore, higher education must also be more closely linked to the labour market. Competitiveness in higher education must also be strengthened. This also requires higher quality. Many educations today have very little teaching time. Better work towards the labour market should be rewarded. We from the Center Party have raised student co-workership, to enable students to take extra jobs during their studies. We want to see improved opportunities for traineeships during higher education. Above all, we want to strengthen the role of study and career advisers, which we believe is crucial for improving higher education. It is also important for students to be able to compare their programmes so that they know what they get from the education they choose. Choosing higher education is one of the biggest investments you make in your life. To know what to expect then is extremely important. It is therefore regrettable given that, less than a year ago, the Riksdag unanimously decided that comparability is an important input into the quality assurance system that, unfortunately, the current government has chosen to ignore that question, according to an answer to a written question. This particularly affects students from unskilled homes who need these conditions. I hope that the government will listen to the proposal from the Riksdag that students should be able to make choices based on the links of education to the labour market, the quality of education and on the views of former students on education. The Center Party has today presented proposals linked to internationalisation to remove unnecessary regulatory issues for international students if they want to get to Sweden. Today, there is some duplication of work between the higher education institutions and the Migration Agency. We also want to open up the possibility that the doctoral students and master students who are here and attend an education that is longer than a year will have the opportunity to get a residence permit for the whole period, so that they do not have the process of renewing the residence permit. In this way, individual students gain increased security, but it is also important to reduce the administration of the authorities and the Migration Agency. It is unfortunate that the current government has increased the tax on jobs, which means that the education premium in Sweden is even lower. We want to do exactly the opposite. We want to reduce taxes by working so that it pays even more for those people who choose to train to start a business and develop. This contributes to a better Sweden. It is also important to improve the opportunities for throughput, so that it will be easier for students to undergo their education more quickly to enter the labour market more quickly, rather than being unemployed during the summer months or perhaps working with things or studying courses that are not relevant to their education. There must be opportunities for a more flexible approach so that people get to work faster. It is the foundation of the Center Party's higher education policy that higher education should lead to more work.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-650	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the enormous area of education. Next everyone in the speaker's chair has mentioned how difficult it is to make it all. That is why we must prioritise and highlight the most important and the different things that divide us. But it's like in school. A llt doesn't come with as much as you want. Of course, a man must have time for the most important thing. My idea was that I should primarily have talked about higher education, komvux and sfi, but after listening to the debate I will shift the focus a little bit. A few weeks ago, we debated in this House the right to competent education in Komvux. Among other things, I pointed out that it is important to ensure that Komvux does not become a rescue plank for those municipalities that do not have the power to give students what they need in high school. All too often we see the tendency to put the problems ahead of us in primary school and think that they can be solved in middle school. In middle school they say that the problems can be solved in secondary school and so on to high school, and if you don't fix it there is komvux next. Keeping high quality both in upper secondary school and in komvux is very important, and there, of course, teachers are key. I'll get back to that later. Something else that I highlighted in the debate was my concern about the lock-in effect of special school. Those who study in special school today will not be eligible for further reading unless you go through the education of the general public. This is a heterogeneous group that we have talked about very little today. I would like to hear a little more about what the responsible minister's thoughts are, as I assume they did not fit in during the minister's speech. Since the municipalities took over responsibility for special education in the 1990s, the number of pupils has almost doubled. What the reasons for this increase are, we can surely divide if any other time, but the fact is that there have never been this many children in upper secondary school or elementary school. During the time of the alliance government, we made sure to open up some of the possibilities, and they have now existed for a few years. However, we see that formal possibilities are not enough, but specific orders are needed. The same may apply to folk high schools and study associations. It may seem a little strange that a government that wants everyone in high school to get higher education qualifications seems to forget about those who go to special high school and their ability to read further, if they like. It's either everyone in one place or none in the other. We Liberals are seeing a clearer individualisation here. Anyone who wants to be able to get a higher education qualification, regardless of the programme, but it should not be an obligatorium. Nor does the proposal on basic qualifications for universities of applied sciences and Komvux cover particular cases at upper secondary level. It is the only target group not covered by that right reform. The lock-in effect of special education is getting even worse. There is a need for a review of particularity as soon as possible, as well as of the entire special school. For the rest, I think we can then think about another name. I told you earlier that the teachers are the key. I think that the very best election poster in all categories is the one where it says... Without Mr. Miyagi no Daniel-san. As it happens, the party that I myself represent has had this very poster. Once I had to give a praoele student the task of watching all the Karate Kid movies because he's shilling to understand the reference to Mr. Miyagi and Daniel-san-san. Today's youth obviously misses a lot of quality culture. Last December, a survey was conducted by a random sample of upper secondary and adult education teachers in Sweden. They were asked: What decision would you prioritise if you were a minister of high school and knowledge transfer? Higher wages were the most common, but there were also many other things. Competence was another thing – many people want better opportunities for further training. Another important aspect that many raised was administration. They thought it was too much and wanted to lift it away from the teachers so that they could focus on the main task of teaching. Many talked about the work environment with stress and anxiety in classrooms where there is noise, threats and violence. An interesting part that was raised was by the way a desire for students to take a more active responsibility over their learning. A state school was also highlighted. In all these areas, the Liberals have proposed improvements – once again as an event. We want to introduce teachers' assistants so that teachers can engage in teaching rather than administration. We have been talking about order and peace of mind for a very long time. The Liberals wanting state school is hardly a secret. Through career services, teachers can develop in their profession, but much more is needed. An extensive further training of the Swedish teaching staff is necessary. That is exactly what the teachers are calling for. It is strange that such a large and important profession with a knowledge-oriented profession has so little further training. The idea is that you should be able to teach for many years, and then you obviously need to update your knowledge. Liberals propose that there should be a requirement for the principals to offer one year of further education at universities in subject knowledge for all qualified teachers in primary and secondary schools who have at least ten years in the profession. This shall relate to the deepening of the substances in which they are already authorised or to the methodology of substances. This would be the biggest investment in the history of teacher training. The report says no to teachers' assistants who would have laid off teachers so that they can do what they are supposed to do, that is, teach. The report also says that the principals, the municipalities, are responsible for giving the opportunity to develop skills. That is quite right. That's it. The problem is that this is not being done today. The equivalence that many have talked about in today's debate will not be achieved as long as the municipalities are responsible for this. The students in Danderyd have completely different conditions than the students in Degerfors, because the principals, i.e. the municipalities, have different priorities. Earlier in the debate, we heard from the government parties that equivalence of premises is important. Among other things, toilets were mentioned. It was said that it is a problem that the municipalities do not take responsibility. The state must go in. I think that teachers' competence development should be one of the more important elements in order to have an equal school. We should be able to give all students the opportunity to have their own Mr. Miyagi, and all teachers should also have the opportunity to be a Mr. Miyagi.
i-6kgSLYsazUoALuQaXa44xZ	Madam President, I would like I note that the Liberals' budget stands minus at Karolinska Institutet, KTH, Karlstad University, Linnaeus University, Örebro University, Mid Sweden University, Blekinge Institute of Technology, Malmö University, Mälardalen University, University of Borås, University of Dalarna, University of Gävle, University of Halmstad, University of Kristianstad, University of Skövde, University West and Södertörn University. For the universities in Uppsala, Lund, Gothenburg, Stockholm, Umeå and Linköping it says plus. Since Christina Örnebjär changed the speech script, this part might have fallen away. What reason do you have to reduce the grant to all these universities and instead invest in a few? I would describe this as far from the whole country. Rather, it is about our very largest cities and old universities.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-673	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Lena Hallengren! As I mentioned in my speech, one reason is that we need to give priority. We have, among other things, looked at how we should prioritise where we should put the teacher education. We think that it should be at some universities and not at others to be able to focus and get the best education possible. If we spread out we will not get competence at all universities. I can stay there because it's actually that simple.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-675	Madam President, I would like It was a welcome addition, not least because it is included in the Minutes. I think that there was reason to mention this in a speech on the budget debate because it is remarkable that you want teacher training and subject teacher training in six places, unlike everyone there is today. Rather, I hear from most parties that they are concerned that teacher training does not exist throughout the country. This has a negative impact on the fact that we now have a shortage of 60 000. I am also thinking a little about how the Liberals think that the training and training schools will work if you limit this to six places. How will these be enough? What are the consequences for the country as a whole when you pull down? As I understood, the reduction applies to teacher training, but it may not necessarily be the case; perhaps it can be interpreted as education in general. Is it still the old universities that are in place and which are given priority when the Liberals are allowed to choose?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-679	Madam President, I would like Thank you for one more question. I would say that quite few people look at the education available at the university or school closest to home. On the contrary, many view it as a welcome reason to move as far away as possible and move away from home. On the other hand, you look at quality. You want to go to an education that is good for eventually getting a good job. That's what we have in other educations. Why should we not be able to do the same in teacher training? Why can't we focus on getting as good teacher training as possible in a few places so that we get the best teachers even in teacher training? In this way we get the best teachers out in our own business. Of course, it will be a better business if we can focus instead of spreading. I do not think that fewer will continue to read, but higher quality will attract more people to read to teachers.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-683	Madam President, I would like One of the major challenges facing us as elected representatives is that society is changing at an increasingly rapid pace. No one can say for sure what our society will look like in 15 or 20 years' time. Which sectors will need labour? Which sectors will remain? What knowledge is needed in our new society? With this, I would like to show two different parts. The need to change our education system to the new times will be of the utmost importance to meet the new challenges of the future. And the need to be able to realise that not once but perhaps two or three of us need to sit on the school bench to supplement our knowledge becomes no exception but rather a rule to meet the need for new knowledge that arises in society. We must therefore focus more on the opportunities for change and flexibility in education and training leading to jobs and entrepreneurship. The Christian Democrats believe that people who attend vocational education or training courses within the University of Applied Sciences have far more opportunity to get a post-graduate job than after a labour market training course contracted by Arbetsförmedlingen. This assessment is also based on the fact that an employer is likely to have a more negative perception of a person who has attended a labour market training course than one who has attended another training course. This makes it more difficult for the first person to get a job. The state must dare to make changes that make a significant difference to the individual's job opportunities, even if decisions are sometimes difficult to take. I note that the government was proud of its commitment to professional adult life. However, it could be even better with our proposals. By phasing out labour market training, around 3 000 full-year jobs are lost in labour market training. Instead, the Christian Democrats are allocating funds to create more places in vocational education and training. The Christian Democrats are investing 537 million in addition to the government in 2017. During the four years of the budget, it would be over SEK 1.5 billion. Our assessment is that in this way we create far more places at professional level and thus help more people to get the right knowledge and a faster way to work. Our goal is quite similar to that of the government, but we want to go a little further and we believe that our proposal is what meets the future better. Another area that we see needs is health professions. Today, we can already see that health professionals are and remain a scarce commodity. The care of the elderly is what we immediately get into mind, but ordinary health care has similar problems today. The large shortage of trained doctors, nurses and midwives leads to less availability of care. We see in health care increased queues, which we believe are due to the fact that the state has reduced the demands on the regions by removing queue billions. But it can also be an expression of the difficulty of recruiting staff. We must ensure that trained staff are available for our health professions to an adequate extent. It's a humanity aspect. Therefore, we allocate resources to new training places for these professions with a total of SEK 400 million over the next four years. Developments in health care have also become increasingly specialised, which places higher demands on specialist knowledge. This often also applies to newly trained nurses. Compulsory public service would help to increase the practical skills of newly trained nurses. We would therefore like to review the possibility of introducing, on an experimental basis, compulsory public service for all newly trained nurses with subsequent evaluation. Another area where we find it difficult to recruit and retain staff and raise the status is the teaching profession. There are some things to do here because comprehensive school results are closely linked to teachers' commitment, knowledge and ability to get students interested and involved. The role of the state must be to ensure that teacher training meets those expectations. A newly trained teacher should have instruments to engage students, should have a high level of knowledge and should be able to adapt to the students' different conditions, which I hope you can do. It is not only the number of trained people who are important, but also the quality of these training courses. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that it is of the utmost importance for teacher education to be of high and uniform quality. It is questionable whether it does so when there are 28 different teacher training courses. It is important that the education is kept together and can show the same good results no matter where you study. You need to be able to set high grade requirements and make aptitude tests when admission to teacher training. In addition, it is important that early in the education, teachers are given practical experience, which can also provide guidance as to whether they have made the right or wrong choice. If the teacher student hesitates, it is better that he or she drop out early in the education than late. I would like to conclude by trying to underline the importance of research in Sweden. Higher education and research must take advantage of interested talents in order to keep Sweden competitive. Therefore, there needs to be opportunities to study or research whether you are a new student or a single two-child parent. The Christian Democrats want funding for growth-friendly research and innovation to be given priority. Sweden will be able to regain lost ground and become a world leader in research that Sweden has traditionally been a leader in. This will also allow us to maintain the quality that characterises large parts of Swedish participation in European research. It is important to harmonise with the framework programmes drawn up in the context of European cooperation, which place great emphasis on transforming scientific successes and breakthroughs into new products and services that, in turn, lead to increased growth for Sweden and Europe. What the future looks like, we may have some idea, but no one has an exact map. What we know is what resources we have available: students who have an eagerness to learn and find out new things, good universities that have their tips in some areas and new arrivals that carry knowledge to our country that in some cases can fit into what we lack. It's all about optimising our resources in the best way to create a good future – a future that we ourselves create by being a leading research nation and taking advantage of the knowledge we have.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-698	Madam President, I would like Anyone who carefully reads the Government's budget bill will find some interesting lines on p. 205 under the heading of Politics. There are a few words that state a fundamental and important principle for higher education and research in Sweden. The Government writes that the ambition is to build a modern knowledge society with high-quality research and education throughout the country. The government then goes on to emphasise the importance of giving both women and men the opportunity to learn regardless of their income and background. These are important lines in this great document. On that basis, I would like to draw some conclusions. Expanding the university with a particular focus on getting more teachers and more preschool teachers is an important budget priority. Expanding the university of applied sciences to meet the needs of the labour market is equally urgent. At the same time, doing so through quality-enhancing measures, both in higher education and in universities of applied sciences, is very welcome. From the underlying principle with which I began my speech, I can draw some further conclusions which I think are important. It is important to improve gender equality in higher education and research. Therefore, the government's marking of gender mainstreaming efforts at higher education institutions is very important. It is about equal opportunities for men and women to make careers in academia and to counteract gender-based study choices. It is also important that we take out the step length in terms of broader recruitment and broader participation. It is not acceptable for access to and participation in higher education to differ because of the background and the level of education of the parents. The bourgeois government did not give priority to the work of broader recruitment, which has caused this work to stop. That is why I am pleased that the government is now politically prioritising the importance of broader recruitment and broader participation. Universities and higher education institutions are important players in lifelong learning. It is therefore important to demonstrate politically that good access to distance education is very valuable. It is also important to have an active collaboration between academia and municipal learning centres. We build lifelong learning through collaboration around municipal learning centres and good access to distance education. The Moderates have had a high tail in this debate, I think. Betty Malmberg criticises the government for neglecting quality work. Is that right? No, of course that's not true. It is not that the Moderates invest more money than the government in 2017 to improve quality. It is mostly verbal balloons that Betty Malmberg sends up, and there is air in the balloons. To expand the university with more places does not mean that you automatically ignore the quality. It is not that an increase in quality depends solely on more money. Quality work for me and the government is ultimately an approach. That is why we have now got a reformed and better quality evaluation system, which just marks the approach. As the Minister said, over the current term of office almost 1 billion is being invested in strengthening the quality of higher education. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of higher education institutions to offer quality education. Of course, if you cannot guarantee a high-quality education, you should not start an education. But I have great confidence that the universities take responsibility for the quality of the university. It is also interesting to see that two bourgeois parties are moving in two different directions. In any case, the Center Party is moving forward in the sense that I am thinking of the future, while the Liberals are moving in the opposite direction and backwards. What am I thinking about? The Center Party agrees with the government's view that we need higher education throughout the country. The Center Party also wants to develop cooperation between academia and municipal learning centres. The Liberals don't want that. They want to centralise teacher training to fewer locations. We heard that in the line shift before. It becomes for me an elitist thought. It seems that the Liberals do not want to speak out in the debate. Many people have come to Sweden in recent times who have foreign higher education and need to have it validated, tested, and be able to use it in Swedish working conditions. It is therefore important to have validation and to be able to offer additional training courses for newly arrived academics. Madam President, I would like As far as the research budget is concerned, the Minister has already commented on it. I won't get into it. We have reason to come back to that debate on the spring side when we are going to take the research budget. It is a little surprising that the Centre Party, the Liberals and the KD in their draft budget are cutting back on investment in higher education and research. I find this a bit remarkable given how important it is to build Sweden strongly with higher education and research. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-710	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Thomas Strand. You didn't have to lure me into the debate with the jumps of saying Betty Malmberg throws out verbal balloons. I would have gone into the debate anyway. In fact, Thomas Strand also points out that he has read the budget bill very carefully. That's very good. I'll tell you what. But you have apparently neglected to read what other parties have put forward in their budgets for proposals. In fact, as things stand today, here and now, the Moderates propose SEK 550 million in 2017, I will ask to speak about. You've been hiding the bet of $250 million. It's in the regulatory letters. We hadn't understood that from the beginning. We have then redistributed them in order to be able to add to the research. That's why we're going to land higher than you do in research. Either way, Thomas Strand: Although I'm counting that money off, we're still 50 million kronor above what the Social Democrats and the government are investing. Right should be right. Thomas Strand is talking about building a modern research society. It's obvious. I would therefore like to ask: what does Thomas Strand think about digitalisation? I mentioned in my speech that the Digitalisation Commission already told the government in 2015 that it should look at and follow developments in how higher education is digitised. How does it get into education? The government has its arms crossed. The Moderates are pushing the question. What's the government doing, Thomas Strand?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-713	Madam President, I would like What is important, however, is to say that there is little difference between budgetary spending. We are investing fairly equally both parties in terms of quality-enhancing measures. It may sound like there's a lot on the part of the Moderates. But when I look at 2017 I don't think there's a significant difference. The second concerns digitalisation, which is a very important issue. It is in itself for all parties. I think we're all passionate about that. If you look at how the government has worked, you can see that it has worked very widely in terms of digitalisation. It was worked on getting strategies for preschool, primary school and so on. A work is being presented on strategies also for upper secondary school and that age group. Digitalisation is also an important issue for higher education. Among other things, the government has had MOOC investigated, which we sometimes talk about as part of this. It should be included that there is work going on to look at how to strengthen digitalisation in higher education. Then we should not forget that with the research bill recently presented, digitalisation is one of the major challenges that the government wants to tackle very broadly in order to strengthen and see the effects of digitalisation throughout society. It is generally about higher education and research.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-717	Madam President, I would like I think that there is a difference, Thomas Strand, if we say that we want to invest 50 million extra on the quality. 50 million dollars is a lot of money. The Government mentioned here earlier that it is making investments in Tech for Sweden. It's about 7 million kroner. There too, the thighs of the Moderates are carried 50 million crowns. It makes a difference. You can't get away from it. When we talk about modern developments, it is interesting to hear how Thomas Strand defends the government's work to date. It's started a little bit in youth school. Then you jump to the research bill. As I said in my speech, it has forgotten that higher education is in between. We are talking about digitising research. However, despite the fact that the bill that we will debate later is about higher education, research and innovation, there is no mention of the importance and need to digitise higher education. I am not talking about MOOC. I'm not talking about distance learning. I am talking about teacher students who, for example, will meet expectations in the classroom. There we have children, students, who sit with Ipadar and have learned to program at preschool. These students must have tools to meet. That is what I am calling for from the government.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-722	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the money for quality improvement measures, we also have the research schools to start. This has been stated both in the budget and in the research bill. There are also experiments with practice-related research that are part of improving the quality of both teacher education and linked to the school. I will briefly mention Teach for Sweden. You can't give them more money than they can use. The money we invest is exactly what they themselves think they can use. The research proposal is important in this context. If you read it carefully, and I hope Betty has done so, one of the points is that you link education, research and innovation as a whole. When you talk about digitalisation, it is a broad research programme for ten years. It is about education, research and innovation. That's how you should see it. Digitalisation comes into the areas of education, research and innovation. It's very important. One of the important innovations in the research bill is the broad research programmes that link it together to get it together. It should not be that we have digitalisation here, research here and higher education here. It's all connected.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-726	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to listen to Thomas Strand when he speaks in the speaker's chair. He highlights quality focus very much. That is what I intended to highlight in my speech. Less than a year ago, a unanimous parliament took a decision to give an announcement to the government regarding comparability in higher education. It's actually based on two parts. One is to drive higher education institutions' quality work further forward when they are compared to each other. It is also, and above all, about the students' ability to know what to expect when choosing education. Investment in education is one of the biggest things you do in life, and it is important to know what conditions you can expect, how education can lead to work and what quality education will have. A question has been put to Minister for Higher Education Helene Hellmark Knutsson from my colleague Ulrika Carlsson earlier in the speaker's chair, and a written question has also been asked. The government chooses to ignore this, even though the Riksdag has taken a unanimous decision that comparability in higher education is important. The assignment was given to the University Chancellor's Office to include this in the quality evaluation system. The study of the new quality evaluation system suggests that it is important to be able to compare higher education but that it is not suitable for this system. It is proposed that it be an independent mission. Parliament's decision was unanimous. My questions to Thomas Strand are therefore: What does Thomas Strand think about the Minister for Higher Education ignoring the unanimous decisions of the Riksdag? How will Thomas Strand work to ensure that the intentions contained in this parliamentary decision are implemented?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-731	Madam President, I would like The decision we made and the government proposal that was adopted not so long ago are important and central. We had a system earlier that on many levels did not measure up. Among other things, it was difficult for Sweden not to measure in European terms when it relates to the simple system. It was therefore important that we came up with a new quality evaluation system. It is about examining the degree permits and the role of UKÄ there, but it is also about ensuring that each higher education institution has its own quality assurance systems. It should be ensured that the training they offer and carry out is of good standard and quality. It is also linked to the fact that you can make an evaluation of the programmes and check a little about what the higher education institutions say and vouch for that they have really true. It is the thematic evaluations that are important in terms of capturing quality. It was a good way and a good proposal, and I thought it was wise for the Parliament to support this. If the Riksdag has made an announcement, the Government will of course relate to it. I'm not a minister, so I can't speak for the government. As a member of the Riksdag, I think this is important: If the Riksdag has made an announcement, the Government should relate to it. I believe that the government will accommodate this in some form, although I do not know exactly how it will be designed.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-734	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Thomas Strand and I share the view on this issue. I hope that Thomas, with his contacts with the Ministry, will also push the matter forward. Unfortunately, the Minister's answer was that it believes that what the University Chancellor's Office found was sufficient to compare educations, even though the University Chancellor's Office itself believes that the Authority should receive an independent information assignment precisely to be able to lift other parameters than only those included in the quality evaluation system. The debate on the quality evaluation system and how we feel about it has been held in the past. It is precisely the ability to compare education and training that is crucial. It is about running the quality of higher education institutions and knowing that they will have a higher education with high quality so that they attract the best students. These are, above all, the students whom I am reacting to Thomas Strand's speech in terms of broadening recruitment and that this is an important issue for the Social Democrats. Then it is extremely important that you can know what you can expect from the education you choose, what you can have for conditions in the labour market and what quality education holds. First of all, it is about being able to make it all comparable to training in another place. I hope that Thomas Strand will take the views with him on comparability and make it all available to the students. It is about driving quality but also about increasing the ability to make better and more attractive choices. Education is one of the biggest investments people make in life.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-737	Madam President, I would like With the system that we have decided on here in Parliament – a new quality evaluation system – and the four components that exist there, I think that as a student you can get a pretty good picture of different educations and programmes. This should be in the back of your mind when discussing this: The new system allows you as a student to look at a higher education institution and investigate how to ensure quality. It is possible to study whether there are thematic training programmes and their evaluation. I know that when it comes to applying for an education, the student himself often finds out a lot of information about the university. You listen to others and see if the education could fit you. The important thing is that our ambition applies to all universities. If you offer an education you should have a good quality. Then the student should take his or her own responsibility and make sure that what you might hear is true: Does this have a good quality? We must strive to ensure that all higher education institutions and the programmes we have are of good quality. I am sure that the government in some form will respond to the announcement that we have. As a Member of Parliament, I can play my part in the questions, because the role of Parliament is important.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-741	Madam President, I would like Thomas Strand said in his speech that the Liberals seemed to want to remain silent about their proposals. Nothing could be more alien to me. Christina Örnebjär, who participated in a previous change of line, also talked about our ideas Madam President, I would like I think Thomas Strand is basically quite disappointed. He has been talking for a long time about how good research policy will be once he and the Social Democrats take responsibility. But there wasn't much of it. It is a resource allocation that is lower than expected and a direction that is very unclear. What exactly does it stand for? It is not only that the word research has been forgotten in the title of the bill; it has also forgotten a direction for research policy in general. Collaboration is equated with quality in a way that I believe will mean that quality will be toned down in the future, which is unfortunate. For Liberals, the focus on research policy and higher education policy is clearly on quality. We think that the basic resources should drive quality. We believe that VR can carry out quality evaluations across the country. We want more resource allocation that drives quality. With regard to teacher training, which is another level, we would like to see improved quality there too. Our idea is that the subject teacher training, which is of course about long-term and basic deepening of a subject, should take place in those areas where one has the ability to provide this type of education. Peer training, primary school teacher training and so on could be done in many more ways. We therefore believe that subject teacher training can be concentrated. Madam President, I would like Finally, speaking of quality, I would like to ask Thomas Strand a question of control. He said that Teach for Sweden did not get the resources they wanted because they could not receive so many. Today they have 300 applicants, according to the information I have received. But they get seats for 50 people. Does Thomas Strand have any other information about the search print on Teach for Sweden than I have? And why, would he otherwise claim, can't they accept as many as they wish?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-746	Madam President, I would like I find it rather strange that the Liberals are putting forward the proposal to centralise subject teacher training to six places in the main. For me, it reflects elitist thinking. Think, I don't think you always have the best quality just because you're big and strong! There are many small players who can also have a good quality of their education. Above all, I think it is important in view of the lack of teachers we see before us in the coming years that we have education throughout the country. This also applies to subject teacher training. Your idea is that there should be subject teacher training at the six major universities, and then the rest should take care of other education. I don't really believe in this model. If you link our proposal to strengthen research at all universities, you also guarantee quality by including research in all education. In fact, I am very proud and pleased with the research proposal presented by the government. Many of the thoughts that the government is now putting forward were in opposition. There will be almost 3 billion more research, and that is not so bad. It strengthens basic funding and basic research. You meet the big societal challenge with broad, ten-year research programmes. It also helps to strengthen younger researchers' career paths with a merit regulation that will better meet the demands and expectations of researchers. In this way, you create security and strengthen research. I believe that this is very important, as is gender equality and also globalisation and the internationalisation perspective in research. I therefore feel very pleased, happy and proud of this, Christer Nylander!
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-752	Madam President, I would like A research bill that is not so bad, according to the majority representatives– I don't know if it's anything to strive to avoid badness. I rather believe that Sweden should aim higher. We will become one of the world's leading research countries, and then you need ambitions for the research bill at the level that the Alliance previously stood for, as well as a clear focus on quality both in research policy and in higher education policy. When it comes to teacher training at the subject teacher level, our idea is to do the same thing in Skåne. That's usually good. The University of Kristianstad has previously had subject teacher training but decided to start working with Lund instead and therefore has a place in Helsingborg. Those who are trained as subject teachers receive the in-depth knowledge of a subject at Lund University and learn the teaching profession's practical methods and didactics at the university in Kristianstad but on site in Helsingborg. That's not what I call elitism. That is what I call being pragmatic and investing in quality. In this way you get both the knowledge of being a teacher and a deep and solid knowledge of the subject itself. If you are going to lift a Swedish school, you have to think about this: How do we get really good quality in the subject teacher education so that we can make sure that the teachers who come out can lift the students to get a lot of knowledge? You can certainly keep other parts of the teacher education in many places, but I think that when it comes to subject teacher education you should think a lot about how you can take advantage of the fact that in some places in Sweden there is deep knowledge of certain subjects, while in other places there are good conditions for giving teachers good knowledge of the craft itself. Finally, Madam President, I asked a question from Teach for Sweden. Thomas Strand said they couldn't take more resources than they did because they didn't have reception capacity. My information says they have 300 people who are ready to start working there, but the budget they get from the government is only enough for 50 people. Why can we not invest more in these interesting and good ways into the teaching profession?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-757	Madam President, I would like What I said was that for the budget in terms of Teach for Sweden there has been a dialogue, and the amount that the government has put in fits quite well to expand this education. I'm not saying it should be that way forever. Having a high search pressure is not the reason, it is about the ability to offer a good education. When it comes to the research bill, which Christer Nylander also commented on, the government sets the goals of research policy substantially against the previous two bourgeois research proposals. I'm very happy about that. It is not just a question of words; it is essential that the objectives are set. We don't mind universities working together. However, as set out in the special opinion, almost six major universities are required to conduct the subject teacher training. I do not think there are any problems if you want to cooperate in any way. But I don't really believe in a model that involves centralisation, and that makes for me a bit more elitist thinking. The same with the research bill that has been put forward earlier by two bourgeois governments: It has also been an elitist thought with more for the greats. I think we can do it again here. I think we can let many flowers bloom and have a good quality. This also applies to teacher training.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-761	Madam President, I would like Being able to study, learn things, develop or just cave very nerdy in a subject is freedom. Having knowledge of yourself and the outside world does something to a person. The possibility of influencing one's own life and society becomes much greater. The Left Party sees knowledge as a democratic right. We are therefore very happy to present this budget together with the government, because it leads to knowledge and freedom. I still have to start with what everyone's been talking about this past week, and it's not PISA. No, no, that's the research bill! It has all read, at least everyone in this Chamber and perhaps some researchers all over Sweden. It's good! It's really, really good. There are solid efforts on gender equality and on decent conditions of employment. We in the Left Party are a little more excited about investments in accessibility design, welfare and working life research and at the 3R centre. But there are also criticisms, both in the bill and in the budget. It's too little basic funding. This is what scientists think all the time. We can actually allocate as much basic funding as possible, and that will never be enough. Joke aside. It's not a joke. This shows that basic research is so important to achieve the so-called excellent research, various innovations or in pure Swedish: really cruel research! These are the researchers who are really good at pointing out to politicians: Give us more funding, and stop politically controlling what we are going to be researching! I agree with them, at least in part. A little bit we need to be in charge and set anyway. It is equally important to keep clear lines between research and commercial interests. The collaboration that universities are obliged to have with the surrounding society, including the business community, must not lead to the university's researchers disclaiming the right to formulate their own problems, ask questions, choose methods and publish research results. Donations and mission research must in no way replace state funding, which is the basic prerequisite for independent research. We must always defend this. Madam President, I would like Sweden is doing well as a research country. The number of PhD teachers has increased. Taking a doctoral degree takes 4.2 years for most people. Sweden is one of the ten most successful countries in the EU Framework Programme. But not all is peace and joy. The largest number of professors are still men. The largest number of new employees are women. In addition, it has been established year after year that universities are an organisation of norms and values that confirms men as superiors and where there are different conditions for women's and men's qualifications and career development. The research ideal still consists of ideas about the hardworking researcher who lives his life in research and lets family and children come second. That ideal is still very strong. Not only the strategic research funds, but also the basic grants for research are unequally distributed. Much of the explanation for this is that the basic grants are often used to finance the salary of professors – mostly men, as we know. Therefore, we must constantly and consistently always work to distribute research funds on an equal footing. Here, the Left Party will always be the government's largest supporter for gender mainstreaming in universities and colleges. One issue that I would like to highlight in particular is that higher education institutions must work more with broader recruitment. It can no longer be that if your parents have studied at university, you are likely to start studying much more yourself. Knowledge is a democratic right for everyone regardless of their background. This means that recruitment to the university must be broadened. Social, gender and ethnic misrecruitment has decreased. This has happened in the past for a few decades thanks to student funding, expansion of the university and more new educations. We can't afford to back into the future. It is everyone's responsibility to ensure that a majority of the girls who today start studying at universities become researchers and professors of tomorrow. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-JZnpMRAWYJrLwahHeEzAk9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Snecker, for a speech with a very feminist accent. Linda Snecker is proud of the proposed research bill and feels that everything is fine. Linda Snecker raised the issue of clear merit positions. This is an issue that Thomas Strand raised. These jobs are perceived by people outside the government as not so clear. Action is being called for. It is clear that if it is something that the government should do, it is investing in clear career paths. It is certainly also an issue that would be good for women. However, they do not believe that the research proposal addresses this issue. I would like a comment. It is interesting to hear that it is not so dangerous that the basic appropriations are not so high. The reality is that the basic funding in Sweden is 43%. This means that 57% of the funding is currently sought externally in competition. I know that all the political parties in the electoral movement argued that the question of basic appropriations is something that it is important to change. The relationship between basic grants and those applied for externally must be changed. That's why I'm surprised when Linda Snecker praises the prevailing distribution. How does Linda Snecker comment on this?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-777	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Betty Malmberg! I fully agree with Betty that there are an incredible number of insecure jobs at universities and colleges. It is very unclear how the career paths go. The Left Party is the biggest critic of precarious employment. We are constantly fighting for labour law, for us to organise ourselves in trade unions and for us to have a well-functioning contractual movement. We need to preserve LAS. In order to get an equal university and an equal university, at all, equal research, it must become clearer what to do after you have a PhD, what grants exist and what the next step as a researcher will be. I will come back to the Left Party's proposal, which is set out in my motion for a research bill and which concerns clearer and more secure employment. This involves, among other things, removing the 24-month rule. I hope we can fight together for secure and good employment in the university world. It's very important. Betty Malmberg also asked questions about the basic appropriations. We know that researchers spend an incredible amount of time looking for external funds. They search for different periods of time. When half the time has passed, they must apply for research funding for the next period. They sit with piles of paper and applications, and then it is above all large reports that should always be made. I don't pay homage to the basics. But as we know in political life, a budget negotiation is a matter of negotiation between the government and the opposition party – in this case the Left Party. We're happy with a lot of things, but not with everything. There the basic allocation is one of the things that we would have liked to go a little further with.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-783	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Snecker, for the answers! I am grateful for the clarifications. I can inform you that the Moderates don't like unclear merit positions either. We believe that there is more to be done in this area and we will bring the matter forward. This also applies to the basic appropriations. I said in my speech that we want to increase the basic appropriations. There will be a proposal from us. The government puts it on the knees of universities and colleges that they will continue to be able to cope with merit positions, despite the fact that the directives have not been in place before. It has not been possible to follow them. The government's knee is that universities and colleges should be able to cope with the national research infrastructure and co-financing. There are many aspects where the government puts an expectation picture at universities and higher education institutions that will of course also make it difficult to resolve the issue. Another expectation picture is the expansion of recruitment. Linda Snecker also raised a question. All alliance parties believe that this is an important and essential issue. I mentioned it in my speech, and Fredrik Christensson mentioned it in his speech. Among other things, it is a question of being able to provide reliable information so that the applicant can make a well-informed choice. I do not see the government taking steps to broaden recruitment. I do not see the government doing anything other than what happened during the time of the alliance government. But what was good during the time of the alliance government was to invest in youth school, it was expected that all students have all the opportunities to learn and that the teaching should be adapted so that everyone can get their chance. That's good.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-788	Madam President, I would like Of course, we need to get more people who want to go to college to do that. As I said in my speech, the social heritage is extremely strong. Depending on who you are, where you come from, where you have lived and what education your parents have, your choices in life will be consciously or unconsciously in one way or another. Therefore, colleges and the entire schooling must show people that there are many opportunities in life. There are many choices to make. Then we need to strengthen the individuals in making the choices. The government does many good things in research policy, including in terms of gender equality and the allocation of research funding. The Left Party is not in the government, and we feel completely free to criticise as well. There's a broader recruitment area where there's got to be a little more. I would like to take this opportunity to say something more about gender equality, research and who starts studying at the university. What did the investment in the excellent research environments lead to? We see today that an incredibly large majority of the professors are men, and at all, a large majority of the scientists are men. The emphasis on the excellent research environments has led to an incredibly uneven distribution of gender equality at universities where men dominate economically and profitably. This is a major issue in which changes must be made. The Left Party has long been making criticisms. I believe that many more people see that there is a major challenge in terms of secure employment, broadening recruitment and universities and research for the future. It is time to work on these areas now.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-795	Madam President, I would like We live in a changing world. This is not just the case in Sweden. A lot of things are happening around here. Globalisation and digitalisation are things that have just taken off in the world and that will change how we coordinate and manage our society. This will place high and tough demands on how we develop our education system to make it easier for people to change careers and make it easier for them to change careers. It's about how we make it easier for people to develop skills through life. It is simply a matter of enabling us to work longer and longer, when we live longer and longer, in a labour market that is speeding up and is making ever greater demands. Therefore, the Moderates have proposed that we launch a conversion package to enable more people to take part in higher education. Sweden currently has a very well-developed education system, but in reality it is used knapert to contribute to competence development and conversion. It is primarily used to equip people early in life. It is absolutely good that this possibility is available in the way it does in Sweden. But it is also a question of using the entire education system we have to ensure that skills develop our population better. This is an opportunity that we cannot refuse. The Moderates have therefore proposed a conversion package. We want to see a series of changes to enable people to study even when they are a little older. You may need skills to be developed, or you simply want to change your career to be able to work for another decade or a few more decades. We propose, among other things, that the amount of the release be increased in order to make it possible to study while working to a certain extent. For those already established in the labour market, it will thus be an opportunity to maintain a foothold in the labour market. And you can then at least partly finance your own skills development by working. We suggest that we increase the number of stud weeks for those over 40 years old to enable more people who have high costs in life to also take out student loans. We suggest that the upper age limit for taking study funds should be raised to 60 years to enable more people to continue their education later in life. We propose that the additional loan be increased for those over 25 years of age so that more people in their professional life can choose to return. Student aid, which we are debating today, is to a large extent about the study-social situation for pupils. Today we have a well-developed study system and student support system, but it is primarily aimed at the younger students. The Moderates want to ensure that we use the whole system to better enable the transition of the labour market. That is why we are presenting these proposals.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-801	Madam President, I would like Everyone's in a hurry for their group meetings, so I'll try to be brief. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that we support our particular opinion, but we will not be taking part in the decision in this case. The Swedish Democrats have chosen to invest SEK 400 million extra. 400 million extra is a lot of money. Above all, it should be carrot money. We find it a little sad that very much of what is in the school system today is mandatory or imposing methods. These 400 million are intended to go to all the students who choose to focus on the areas where we have shortcomings – it is not about the loan part but about the grant part. There are major shortcomings in some areas. We can already see that there are shortcomings, and we can see areas where there will be major shortcomings. That's why we choose to add an extra $1,000. For students, 1 000 SEK in the grant part may be crucial for which line they choose to focus on. Especially if they stand and choose between two different professions, this money can be the deciding factor. It is above all in universities of applied sciences and education where we see that there are major shortcomings that we choose to invest in this. But, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats are no stranger to the idea of looking at this further. We have not yet set aside any money for this in the case of Komvux and folk high schools. There's a reason for that. Before we do that, there must be a review of folk high schools and Komvux. That, Madam President, is something that Statskontoret is doing. They will present a final report within one year on the quality and equivalence of those training options. Then perhaps the Swedish Democrats will come back with concrete proposals for an opportunity to increase the money even for those who read at that level.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-805	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs more people working longer and longer. We need more hours worked to get more money for welfare and more resources to share. To achieve this, we need to extend working life at both ends. We need to make people get to work faster. We need people to work longer. But people also need to be given the opportunity to change in the middle of life to do so. We can see that Swedish students begin their studies later in life. We also have a poor matching in the labour market. Then we need good and flexible means of study that make it possible for people to change in the middle of life. It is also important that we follow the efforts also made by the Center Party in the field of university of applied sciences and vocational adult education in order to give people the opportunity to do so. The Center Party wants a slightly broader review of the study funds in order to increase the flexibility of the system. It is above all a question of increasing throughput, stimulating people so that they go through education more quickly. But it's also about people who need a lower rate of study – they may have attended upper secondary school or are on part-time sick leave – being given the opportunity to get an education that leads to work and to have the opportunity to get educated even higher up the age. In terms of training, it is important that we strengthen the link with the labour market and increase flexibility. But it is also about ensuring that people who choose to work during their studies get the right conditions. It is then an important issue for the Center Party to review the amount of the release and make it possible to increase it. Madam President, I would like In the report, the Center Party highlights a special initiative concerning a study bonus for those people who choose to go via Teach for Sweden, precisely to get more people to apply for the teaching profession. This is an important issue for us. The foundation is that people have to be able to change in the middle of life. This is why the Center Party wants to see a more flexible study system that meets the people who want to quickly get through education and enter the labour market and who meet the students and students who need a slower pace of study – it should also provide better conditions for those people.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-811	Mr President, I would like to The starting point of Christian Democrats is that man naturally seeks knowledge. Education and training are crucial for a good society and for people's personal development. Education and training must also meet the labour market's needs for a well-trained workforce. In Sweden, everyone – as far as possible – should be able to realize their dreams. We want everyone to have access to education and that it should be free of charge to study. Study support, both the grant and the loan part, is important in order to be able to pursue an effective education policy. However, the study period is associated with the cost of living, and Sweden has a unique study support system to protect and be proud of. By reducing economic barriers, all citizens should feel that they have access to education, regardless of the family situation they come from. All parts of the study grant, i.e. study grants in upper secondary school studies, grants for pupils with disabilities, apprenticeships and student funding with grant and loan part, will contribute to smoothing the financial conditions of individuals and between groups in society. Mr President, I would like to With today's rules, you have the opportunity to get a total of 240 weeks of study funding. For those who have reached the age of 40, that period may be extended by a further 40 weeks, if there are special reasons. From the age of 47, the right to study funds is limited, and the number of weeks you can take student loans is scaled down to the age of 56. From the year you turn 57, the possibility of both student loans and student grants will cease. The Christian Democrats' starting point is that higher education should be accessible to more people who have an interest in and the prerequisites for conducting studies at university and university level. We therefore consider that it is time to investigate whether the possibility of obtaining study funding should be extended. Mr President, I would like to The risk of unemployment is twice as high for young people without a driving licence as for young people with a driving licence, according to a study by the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute. Driving licences are in many cases a requirement of the employer to hire someone. For many young people, however, it is expensive to take a driving licence; we know that. Offering young CSN loans to take driving licences reduces the risk that they refrain from taking a driving licence due to their economy. The Christian Democrats therefore want to enable CSN loans for driving licence studies at a competent traffic school. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about the amount of the allowance, that is, the amount you can earn at the same time as you get student funding. The amount of the exemption limits students' access to the work experience that future employers are looking for, which is very unfortunate. A abolished free amount would also enable students to borrow less and thus get lower debts after graduation. The Christian Democrats see their own value in that students establish themselves early on in the labour market and therefore take a positive view that students also work during their studies, as long as the studies do not suffer. We therefore believe that the release limit the student's own decision on how much time and capacity he has to work alongside the studies. The exemption should therefore be abolished. Mr President, I would like to In order to safeguard a generous study support system, the goal must be for as many people as possible to repay their student loans. We therefore believe that it is reasonable to remove the age cancellation of student loans that exists today. In total, an additional SEK 410 million is expected to be refunded in 2017 at the end of the retirement period and slightly less in the following years. The basic principle should be that all those who can repay their loans. We in the Christian Democrats support our particular statement.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-823	Mr President, I would like to Student aid is a great benefit. The study aid system we have today is one of the most generous in the world. The Social Democrats have been fighting for a very long time for everyone, regardless of background and gender, to have the opportunity to study. Everyone should have the opportunity to realize their dreams, to have the chance to develop as a human being and to learn many new things. Over time, the study support system has developed more and more. Lifelong learning has been incorporated to provide more adult opportunities to develop in the profession or to change the profession. Why, then, is this development taking place? Because the Social Democrats have always striven to improve the system in the long term and to enable more students to participate. Socio-economic background should not be decisive. The threshold should be lower for students from home where studies are not a tradition. The student support must be recruiting for both women and men. It shall equalise differences between individuals and groups. We're all going to have the same opportunity. Why is that important? Because the Social Democrats want to enable people to develop and to gain new knowledge so that they will be strengthened and involved in the construction of society, through work that will enable them to contribute to the well-being and to safeguard our democracy. Making it possible for individuals to get out of unemployment through studies is an important part. Mr President, I would like to Education is important – knowledge and education as well. More than a hundred years ago it was realised that knowledge and education were the key to being part of society and creating democracy. Folkbildning was the answer, a free and voluntary search for knowledge. The first folk high schools started already in 1868. The study associations followed shortly after the turn of the century. The movement, educational circles, lectures, bookboxes, magazines and debate books were tools used at the time. In the Folkbildningsförsökningen from 1944, the expression was coined a democratic education, which was an important task for folkbildning. Funding of studies has been an important piece of the puzzle to give more opportunities to study at all. The first student grant was paid out in 1919. It was a loan of SEK 1,500 per academic year, to be paid back in ten years. But only a small number were involved. General study grant was introduced in 1957. At that time it was 34 kronor per month for students aged 16 to 18 years. Before that, scholarships of various kinds were common, but required to be suitable for study. Neither did many come into question. CSN was formed in 1964, and the study aid system that we have left today largely dates back to 1965. Over the years, it's changed. It's been expanded. The support has become more extensive as needs have been identified, such as extra support for students with children. Student support is part of an active work for broadened equrytering. More people should feel that they have a real opportunity to study. We are now taking the next step to further develop student grants. One flaw in the system is that the unemployed aged 25 or over do not see studies and education as a realistic alternative for them. The Government therefore makes a recruitment-oriented support that will be introduced on 1 July 2017, a study start-up support. This support will facilitate the motivation of short-term unemployed people and a high level of training needs to move towards training that will enable them to enter the labour market. The support should primarily be given to those who would not otherwise have chosen to study, and it should be provided for a shorter period of time. This means that more people can have the opportunity to study and thus have more opportunities to establish themselves in the labour market. An equal and well-developed study support is important for Sweden as a knowledge nation and for us to be able to compete in the global market. It is also important for us to be able to protect democracy, which is just as important today as it was over a hundred years ago. I hereby support the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-835	Mr President, I would like to I was going to take this opportunity to highlight a question that I reacted to last Friday as I scrolled through my Facebook feed. On the Facebook page of the Social Democrats you could read: Maximum Friday feeling when the government lowers the CSN interest rate on average 1 700 SEK less in cost per year. The Swedish model gets stronger and smarter when everyone can study. Then it all ended with a lovely dancing gif-figure. It leads you to believe that the government has made an active choice and made a decision to lower interest rates and that CSN is part of the government's policy. When you read CSN's press release, which has also highlighted this issue which affects many people, you can see that it is the average interest rate on government borrowing costs that the reduced interest rate for CSN is based on. It is based on the borrowing costs of the last three years.
i-Mq4bfFLmCQsp83bWJfrFxH	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for the question. When it comes to taking credit or not, I think it is important for us to be pleased that interest rates are going down. We can also note that the study support system is a generous and well-developed system in Sweden, which many other countries lack. Clearly, interest is part of the expense you have when you pay back your loans. Then I think it is better to be pleased that interest rates are going down.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-844	Mr President, I would like to I share the view of students. It is clear that it is gratifying that costs are lower. An important issue in higher education is that education should pay more. I reacted to making it appear to be an active part of social democratic education policy to lower interest rates. If Lena Emilsson thinks it is good to lower the interest rate, I would like to ask if the honourable Member would like to further lower the interest rate for CSN in order to stimulate what you highlighted in your reply.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-848	Mr President, I would like to After all, interest rate policy is governed by other things. It is not we in this House who decide on this matter. But I still maintain that I am pleased that interest rates have fallen, so that students can get lower costs for their loans.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-850	Mr President, I would like to Student aid is part of education policy. Student support should be like a corset that provides a statute for those who want to take the step further and continue their studies. This applies to women and men, young and elderly, in all fields of education. The study support shall be the factor that helps to smooth out differences between individuals and groups, which contribute to greater social justice, acting as a catalyst for greater equality and equivalence. As more people take part in education and training, they also have an increased chance of finding a job. It's good for the individual and the community. Getting the economy together is a challenge for many. Getting the economy together and starting to study is an even greater challenge. Getting the economy together is facilitated by the possibility of receiving student aid. However, relying entirely on student aid can be tough, and so there is the possibility of using the right to earn up to a certain amount, the so - called free amount. Today the release amount is SEK 85 813 per calendar half year, and it can of course be a much-needed addition to the cashier. The student support is the ability of the vast majority to further study, complete basic education – such as primary and upper secondary education – to acquire vocational training or continue to study further at a university or higher education institution. The student support will give everyone the opportunity to realize their study dreams, to be able to make a new start in the middle of life, to dare to let go of the old, safe, familiar and face new challenges. Mr President, I would like to Reloading and starting a new career or developing in one's profession is for most people a gigantic step to take. This is made easier, of course, by the fact that you can get student loans in order to take a new step in your career. It is also possible to apply for a so-called additional loan to smooth out the transition from job to study. There are many different student grants. There are study grants that you receive when you are in high school when you are 18 years of age and lose your child's allowance. It requires participation in teaching, or else you lose it. When you attend folk high school, komvux or other comprehensive school or upper secondary school education, you can apply for study part if you have turned 20 years of age. At the university you get student funding consisting of a grant part and a loan part. If you study at national high school and are deaf, hearing impaired or disabled, you can receive Rg grants. Overall, I am pleased that we in Sweden have one of the world's most comprehensive study systems that helps to give people more knowledge, more competence, more education and gives everyone the opportunity to participate. It is a system that promotes equality and equivalence. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-862	Mr President, I would like to One of the most important prerequisites for making knowledge and education accessible to more people is a study support system that provides social and financial security for students from adult education to higher education. The funding for studies is an important reason why the recruitment to the university has decreased. In order for the student funds to continue to have this recruiting effect, they must respond to the cost of living of the students. The means of study must also be better guaranteed than linking them to the amount of the prize. It should also be possible to obtain student funding throughout the study period. Those who change direction must also be able to complete the entire course and graduate. What we are seeing right now is that many students perceive it as a great risk of taking out student loans. In order not to make the burden of debt more burdensome, the contribution should increase. In addition, it should be possible to obtain an increased grant under certain conditions. All of these are parts of the Left Party policy on study funds. We have also agreed with the Social Democrats and the Green Party to, among other things, give student loans for driving licences, which we are very proud of. Today, driving licences are a condition in many workplaces. That is why this decision is particularly important. We are pleased that other parties clearly express their support for the proposal. The means of living are essential if you are to be able to study full time. This will make it possible to create high-quality training courses. Therefore, just raising the loan part is not a good measure. The Left Party contributed to the introduction of a supplementary allowance for students with children in 2006. Our principled approach, which is now that the means of study is an educationally motivated support for students' personal livelihoods. Family policy support for students with children should be allocated through the ordinary social security systems through better access to and improvement of, among other things, child benefit, parental insurance, housing allowance, etc. In order for the student benefit system to be as fair as possible and thereby be able to counter social misrecruitment in a better way, it needs to be fundamentally changed. The left-wing party's vision is ultimately to introduce salary instead of the current system. We believe that investment in study wages and in those who study is the most economically and socially beneficial in the long term. I am concerned when I hear the alliance parties talking about the student aid system. They often say that young people or adults who are studying should also be able to work – apparently so much. Both I and the Left Party believe that the focus should be on getting studies during education. Unfortunately, today we see the opposite. Many youths have to take one or more jobs to make a living during their studies. Otherwise, they need rich parents to sponsor their studies. This, of course, counteracts the purpose of the system, i.e. to stop social misrecruitment. It is good that we agree with the government on these issues in the budget, but at the same time I believe that a holistic approach is needed on this in the near future. I support the committee's proposal.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-871	Mr President, I would like to Tonight we are discussing the report by the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. Continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. The Government proposes, in a bill, that the Riksdag allow the Government to make available a Swedish armed force consisting of a maximum of 220 persons until 31 December 2017 in order to participate, at the Iraqi invitation, in the military training operation in Iraq conducted by the global coalition against Daish. Mr President, I would like to Iraq's modern history has been marked by war and violence. During spring and summer 2014, a new horror emerged in the region. Out of the chaos in Syria, the militant movement Daish spread and proclaimed a worldwide caliphate. Daish's bestial atrocities mean that, for moral and human reasons, we must participate in the fight against this organization. We also need to do this for national security reasons. Terrorism threatens not only states and individuals but also the values on which open society rests. It fundamentally challenges our values. Terrorism is also a major contributor to the huge flows of refugees that we have seen in recent years. From the countries with the most terrorism, there are also the largest flows of refugees. Daish's terror extends across land borders, of which the attacks in Paris, Brussels, Ankara and other cities are tragic examples. The organisation has also inspired bestial actions in, among others, Nice and Orlando. Mr President, I would like to The committee condemns the serious systematic and widespread abuse of human rights and violations of international humanitarian law by Daish. Daish must be resisted by any means available. It is welcome that Sweden has joined the international coalition against Daish. The coalition's efforts are central to promoting peace and security in Iraq and Syria in particular. The experience of fighting Daish shows that the terrorist organization is hard to beat. In mid-October, the Iraqi army launched its offensive against the city of Mosul in northern Iraq, controlled by Daish for several years. This battle will be decisive in the war against Daish. Despite reports of some 2,000 killed Daish warriors, it is estimated that between 3,000 and 5,000 combatants of Daish troops are still in the city. Their tactics are to retreat, be quick to move, and be able to strike in new places as the offensive goes further and further into the city. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are debating the Government's proposal for continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. Sweden can and will help in the fight against Daish. At present, Sweden is contributing with a force of approximately 35 people – the maximum mandate is 120 – to train Iraqi security forces who, in turn, are fighting Daish in northern Iraq. Apparently, the Swedish military training operation has worked well, and according to the government there is a need and a demand for a continued and increased Swedish military training grant. I have previously welcomed this effort in this House, but I have also said that Sweden can and will do more. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to clarify the committee's proposal for a parliamentary decision, which in practice means that the government must return to Parliament with a new proposal on the mandate as a whole in order to be able to start operations in a different place from where the Swedish contribution now operates. As I have tried to describe, the Swedish soldiers appear in difficult and dangerous conditions. When the Riksdag authorises the Government to send a Swedish armed force abroad, it is a decision that entails a significant responsibility. This means that the Riksdag must know how and where the Swedish contribution will work. In both the bill and during the presentations that we have received in committee, the information to us has not been sufficient as to where the Swedish contribution to strength would be effective, except in northern Iraq. The committee is therefore not prepared to support the extension of the geographical area of operation of the Swedish force contribution. International peace-promoting efforts are always important, and they are not without risks. Given how much we ask of the women and men we send out on these efforts, the Riksdag must base its decisions on as good and comprehensive information as possible. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to point out that committee's proposal as an announcement to the government. This military operation must also be evaluated. This presupposes that the government will come back to Parliament and describe this in a re-report. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-883	Mr President, I would like to Since 2015, Sweden has participated in the military training operation of the International Coalition against IS in Iraq following the Iraqi invitation. The coalition conducts training in Erbil, where Iraqi defence forces are trained by the Swedish intervention in healthcare, the laws of war, fighting in buildings and detection of improvised explosive devices. The training and advice has been well received by the Iraqi defence forces that Sweden supports in northern Iraq. We from the Swedish Democrats have been and are still in favour of the effort, even though we are moving away from our own principle that Sweden's international commitment to sending military abroad should take place under the UN flag. We believe that the situation in Iraq affects us all very much. We have been reminded of this in recent years by various events in Europe. Horrible acts of terrorism have been carried out by the Islamic State, not only in Iraq and Syria, but also on European soil, and we have seen an immigration wave of unprecedented proportions to Europe and not least to Sweden. At the same time, we have been able to see how people living in Sweden and the rest of Europe have gone down to Iraq and Syria to fight for the terrorists. It is therefore important that Sweden also participates in the fight against terrorism at all levels, both at home in Sweden and internationally. The ravages of the IS terrorist group have caused almost unimaginable suffering for the Iraqi people in general and its ethnic and religious minorities in particular. When IS captured Iraq's second largest city, Mosul, in 2014, we were able to read in the world press about terrible abuses against the estimated 35 000 Christian inhabitants, of whom almost all were forced to leave the city. In 2003, there were about 1.2 million Christians in Iraq alone, but many have been forced to flee, and the number is estimated to have fallen as low as 180,000, perhaps less. But also other minority groups, such as Yazidians, Mandés, Turkmens, Jews, Roma and Shabaks, which are also considerably fewer in number, have been very badly affected. The war has created a very serious humanitarian situation in some places. At present, over 10 million people are in need of humanitarian aid, while Oja's compilation shows that aid organisations demand a total of approximately SEK 3 billion to deal with the situation. Here I must stress that, against this background, it is almost unbelievable what immigration policy Sweden has pursued and which forces it to cut 8 billion out of aid. It is a sum that could cover the entire humanitarian effort. It is our firm position that the government should use Sweden's limited resources where they do the most good and greatly increase support for humanitarian efforts in the immediate vicinity of the crisis. Mr President, I would like to To become an effective icebreaker, we believe that a much wider range of measures is needed, both in Iraq and in Sweden. Iraq is, in many respects, a problematic state. The borders of the country do not reflect a natural demarcation of ethnic groups, but rather an arbitrary division by European colonial powers. As Iraq is a patchwork of peoples who show obvious difficulties in co-existence peacefully, it needs a constitutional solution that takes into account the legitimate demands of its minorities for greater independence. As the policy in Iraq is strongly ethnically emphasised, it is neither fair nor appropriate for one group to have to lean on another for its military defence. When IS invaded northern Iraq and the Nineves plain in 2014, the Kurdish forces and the national Iraqi army fled. The Christian and Yazid people were left to their fate, with horribly similar consequences to genocide. The UN Human Rights Council stated in a resolution in September 2014 that IS abuse can constitute crimes against humanity and war crimes. The events of 2014 clearly show that the Christian and Yazidian populations have no guarantee of support from outside forces, although they have received important support from the Kurdish militia in the course of the conflict. For this reason, it has laid the foundations for its own defence force called the NPU. However, the strength is small. It is trained by a private security company and financed by private donations. We consider it extremely urgent that even the weakest minorities in Iraq have the opportunity to defend themselves and ensure their survival. Therefore, we have proposed that the government works to ensure that the coalition against IS also includes NPU in its support efforts. We also want to broaden the effort by the government investigating needs and opportunities for material support. We do not mean war material for combat, but other specialized material support. Such support could include communication and medical equipment, mobile internet connections and computers, and small, driverless surveillance plans similar to those used in the Afghanistan operation. Mr President, I would like to The Nineves plain in northern Iraq was part of the historical Assyrian kingdom and has for a long time been populated mainly by Assyrians/Syrians and Chaldeans. Even the Kurds have for a long time had a great deal of autonomy and have demonstrated democratic development and respect for human rights, although some mutual violence between Kurdish groups has recently been reported. We therefore believe that the government should use its influence and supplement the military effort with a political process to influence the Iraqi Government towards greater autonomy for the Christians in the Nineves plain and the Kurdish parts of Iraq. We believe that this is the only solution to bring about a long-term stable and secure situation in Iraq. Mr President, I would like to During the preparation process for this report, it has been made clear, at least to me, that the proposed increased Swedish contribution to strength was not very well planned. My view is that during his visit to Erbil at the end of October, the Prime Minister thought that it sounded good to promise a doubling of the Swedish contribution to strength. There seems to have been no planning. In my world, there should have been a request to see that there is a need. Even then, we should have known where the needs are greatest and where the increased resources should be placed and deployed. But that's not the case. You don't know where to put the promised reinforcement. It's being investigated. This alone confirms my theory that the Prime Minister promised something just because it sounded good at the moment. The committee notes in the report that the government stated in a presentation that the Swedish force contribution will be effective at another base in Iraq, but at the moment it is not possible to state what basis it is. As the committee states, it entails a significant responsibility when the Riksdag decides to authorise the government to send Swedish armed forces on behalf of another country. It is therefore positive that the committee also proposes to the Riksdag that the Government should be required to return to the Riksdag with a new proposal on the mandate as a whole in order to initiate operations elsewhere than in northern Iraq. It is also a good thing that the committee emphasises that the government and authorities regularly carry out in-depth risk and threat assessments. Given how poorly prepared the government's proposal for a doubling of the force contribution is, and given the stage in which the effort against IS is being made, we do not believe that it is necessary for Sweden to double its power contribution. That is why we have proposed that the present contribution to the force be maintained under the same conditions as before. Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress the importance of adequate evaluation of all such international efforts. It is good that the committee emphasises the importance of analysing and evaluating the effects of Swedish force contributions in international peace-promoting efforts. Mr President, I would like to Participation in international efforts is a burden on the defence budget. In a situation where Sweden does not have a defence of existence to talk about, while the security policy situation in our immediate vicinity remains uncertain, we do not think it appropriate to impose an additional burden on the defence budget. That is why we believe that the government should provide increased resources to the defence through loans and then adjust this in the forthcoming spring budget. We generally want to see substantially increased resources for the defence, but we believe that the government should at least provide additional funds in order to compensate for the financial strain that it entails for the Armed Forces to carry out the operation in Iraq. Of course, we agree with all our reservations in the report, but for the winning time, we only ask for reservation 1 and reservation 3. Mr President, I would like to I apologize for running over time.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-906	Mr President, I would like to As was the case a year ago when Parliament last examined the report on the extension of the Swedish educational and advisory service in Iraq, the situation is very serious. Every day we get many reports about how the war continues, about the bombings, terror, systematic abuse, brutality and cruelty against civilians, children, women and minorities such as Christians and Yazidians. We see the pictures, we hear the witnesses, and we also meet people here in Sweden who can tell us all the terrible things that are happening and have happened. The war brings unimaginable suffering, and it is now driving people on the run. These very days there are intense and powerful battles about Mosul. We can see that civilians find it very difficult to get out of there. Many children and adults are hit really hard. It's bombing, lack of food and water, and it's assault. Mosul is in danger of being a major disaster. It is well over 1 million people who are estimated to be in there trapped in the battles. At the same time, Iraqi society is deeply divided after several years of sectarian warfare. Today's situation is not the same as it was a year ago. The security situation continues to change. One of many big questions is about what it will look like after Daish. With so many different actors, so many different interest representatives and players on the pitch, with different purposes, goals, ambitions and agendas, the risks are very great for new and deepened conflicts. A new security policy situation requires a new leadership and a functioning broad dialogue. It is therefore not entirely acceptable, Mr President, that a proposal of this kind has not been preceded by a broad, open dialogue by the government with the other parties on how to proceed. A constructive approach before decisions and also a proper broad consensus are important for this type of position. Sweden's security is very much affected by what is happening in Syria and also in Iraq and other countries in the Middle East. We have a troubled world. It places demands on us as political representatives and leaders. It also requires action. But we must necessarily stand up for freedom, democracy and human rights and also maintain the integrity of the fight against terrorism. The picture is still very complex, and in 2016 we have been able to see further terrible terrorist acts in Europe, for example. Daish must be combated militarily. But Iraq also needs political stability and a sustainable way forward. We must not, cannot and should not accept conscious attacks on civilian targets. Reconciliation efforts may lie later. But it is also important to have with you now to build up the functions of the state in this very tough situation. The international coalition's military plan for Iraq and Syria aims to defeat Daish. Our Swedish contribution is important in the overall work. The training and counselling has been well received. It is important that we continue to work until we are in goal. Referring to the challenging security situation, the Riksdag must be aware of the places where the Swedish forces should operate. We cannot give an open mandate to the government that the Swedish force should be able to serve throughout the country. Therefore, the possibility for the government to be able to return with a new bill that describes the mandate as a whole should it be necessary to have Swedish military activities in places other than northern Iraq. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has ultimately a responsibility to ensure respect for human rights. It is also important to document and report back to us here in Sweden and the Riksdag, and to take responsibility if you encounter or see irresponsible actions that violate human rights. It is good that the Riksdag is now being proposed to make an important announcement to support the importance of evaluating both the military training operation and the experience of the unit in order to learn lessons for further efforts. It is important both with a thorough analysis and a broad overall view and also to strive for long-termness in our Swedish contribution. I would like to conclude by expressing my warm thanks to all the women and men who, on behalf of Sweden, are now engaged in the service of peace and are active in Iraq. I would also like to thank those concerned and relatives who will enable us in Parliament to take decisions on such difficult tasks. I would also like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-917	Mr President, I would like to The Iraq war, if you remember, was a violation of international law based on lies. It is interesting when we in this House often discuss the violation of other people's international law that this criticism of the United States is, in principle, entirely illuminated by its absence despite the bitter fruits created by the war. There are about 600 000 deaths counted only until 2006 and refugee disasters. It's a very bitter fruit. The whole rise of Daish is a result of the criminal Iraq war. But some crimes of international law will be forgotten very quickly if they are ever admitted. This was a direct violation of international law. There is no doubt about that. It is very sad if members of the Swedish Parliament are equipped with some kind of thermostat consciousness. Each matter must be assessed according to its nature, but it must be assessed according to the same yardstick. Mr President, I would like to Well, now we're where we are. The war casts long shadows. The Left Party therefore supports the Swedish military training operation in northern Iraq. I would like to stress that we look with great concern at the reports by Amnesty which have described how the Kurdish Peshmerga forces destroyed thousands of homes in areas they conquered from Daish in Nineve, Kirkuk and Diyala. The aim has clearly been to destroy Arab communities and to prevent Arabs from returning to the areas. According to Amnesty, the forced displacement of civilians could be a war crime. The KRG has rejected the charges. But a fairly recent report from Human Rights Watch confirms the image of destruction and expulsion without any military purpose. The fight against Daish must be conducted with respect for international humanitarian law and human rights. The government should therefore take further initiatives to ensure that the forces that Sweden is training in Iraq respect the laws of war and human rights. That is why I am in favour of reservation 4.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-921	Mr President, I would like to I can, of course, agree with many of the descriptions made by the previous speaker of the state of the Daish-controlled areas both in Iraq and in Syria. There is no doubt whatsoever that Daish is one of the most atrocious movements the world has seen. That is why, of course, the Liberals wholeheartedly support the ongoing training effort in Iraq. We also welcome the fact that we are now getting closer to doubling the number of training officers and soldiers. However, we do not close our eyes either because there is a need to be able to go further in terms of our support in the fight against Daish. When Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström and Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist made a journey early this spring, they witnessed the fact that Daish had chemical weapons and that Peshmerga soldiers were injured by them. When you make this statement from the government, we liberals think that it is natural to consider what Sweden can do in such a situation. A good way to support Peshmerga right now would be to ensure that they have protection against chemical weapons, among other things, and Sweden has a decent access to such protection. We should also be able to assist with transport and logistics. We should help with medical care. Last summer, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist announced after a so-called donor conference that Sweden would also contribute a health care element to Iraq. From that we see nothing today. Of course, medical care in this area and for Peshmerga soldiers had been of great importance. We also believe that it should be reasonable to provide peshmerga with weapons. We are thinking primarily of heavier army weapons such as machine guns and grenades. Then there are some who say: Should you really send weapons into a war zone? In my opinion, Mr President, and if you look at it morally, this is, on the one hand, training soldiers to be able to fight more successfully against Daish, on the other hand, arming these soldiers really only two sides of the same coin. We have a responsibility to do our utmost to ensure that the fight against Daish is as successful and swift as possible. Let me conclude, Mr President, by saying that I think it is a good thing that it is a completely united foreign and defence committee which is now standing up for order in the Swedish efforts. The government can come back if and when an establishment is also to take place elsewhere in Iraq for educational purposes. This is nothing less than showing responsibility and concern for all the men and women who are making contributions on Sweden's behalf on foreign soil. Mr President, I would like to I would like to express my support for reservation No 5.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-927	Mr President, I would like to The offensive against Mosul and the Islamic State or Daish is in full swing. The pictures we see are strong. From areas freed from Daish violence we see people's relief and joy. We hear church bells ring again. But the battle of Mosul is far from won, and we also see the most terrible and heartbreaking scenes taking place. Humanitarian aid does not get through, and civilians do not have a way out. We see despair, and we see death. On 25 June 2014, the Iraqi Government requested the assistance of the international community to combat Daish through, inter alia, training and material support to the Iraqi defence. On 15 August 2014, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2170 on collective and national action against Daish, the Nusra Front and other groups associated with Al-Qaida. Two years ago, the United States announced the formation of an international coalition against the Islamic State, and it was important that Sweden subsequently joined the coalition. We are gathered here in this House to debate the committee's report on continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. Sweden's contribution within the framework of the work of the US-led international coalition is important, and it is an appreciated contribution. It is our responsibility to continue the fight against Daish's atrocious terror. Therefore, the committee proposes that the Riksdag should decide to make available a Swedish armed force consisting of a maximum of 220 persons until 31 December 2017 in order to continue to participate in the military training operation in northern Iraq at the invitation of Iraq. In the report we are debating, the committee also proposes an announcement to the government. It is the committee's firm opinion that the valuable experience gained so far in the military training operation should be evaluated and reported back to Parliament. Mr President, I would like to In addition, the committee proposes that, in this situation, the effort should continue to be concentrated on training soldiers in northern Iraq. The reason is not, as several colleagues have previously explained, that we do not see the need to fight IS evil wherever it is. However, since no careful safety analysis has been carried out of the situation in other geographical areas of Iraq, we are not currently prepared to give a mandate for a wider geographical area. Mr President, I would like to Our commitment to Iraq will have to be long-term. The goal is that IS is pushed back and finally wiped out. The destruction and devastation this sect spreads is difficult to even take in. We see persecution, rape and murder for the purpose of clearing out those who are not considered to be pure-minded—those who do not believe in what IS supporters do. Yazidian women are used as sex slaves. The house of Christians is marked by the Arabic sign for a Christian in order for those who live there to be murdered. Homosexuals are thrown out of rooftops in cold blood. The examples are many and horrendous. Those who are guilty of these crimes against humanity – those who are now committing genocide – must also be brought before international law. This is an issue that Sweden must vigorously pursue in the Security Council. But there is also a need for presence and strong support in Iraq's reconstruction. At the risk of going ahead, however, it is of great importance that we ask ourselves what will actually happen to the conflict-affected country after the terror militia IS has been defeated. Many of those now taking part in the offensive have little more in common than the goal of getting rid of IS. This puts major problems at risk after Mosul is freed. The political influence of the country's ethnic and religious groupings must be dealt with in order to finally overcome Daish and similar groupings in Iraq. Reconciliation and state-building measures are urgent. The division between the Kurdistan regional government and the central government of Baghdad is evident, and there are still major internal contradictions within the KRG. Furthermore, it is vital that Christians — Chaldean, Syrian, and Assyrian — in Iraq agree on the future of their people. The fact that the parties have now taken a first step towards a common self-defence force is very important in this context and requires the support of the outside world. If ethnic and religious contradictions are allowed to blossom on the day that Mosul is freed and the Islamic State is defeated, we face a situation in which 1 700 years of the presence of these minorities in the region is at risk of being wiped out. To conclude, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all of you who are helping to make the world safer for the rest of us.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-939	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to present the Government's proposal for Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq within the framework of the global coalition against Daish. In the work we have done in the composite committee, we have been informed by both the government and the Swedish Armed Forces. In the proposal that has been presented, the Government proposes that the Riksdag should allow Sweden to double its contribution from a maximum of 35 people to a maximum of 70 people and that we give the grant the opportunity to operate where needs exist throughout Iraq's territory – this to further increase the impact of the Swedish contribution at a time when the international community and its collective efforts are more important than for a very long time. In addition, the force shall be temporarily reinforced by a maximum of 150 persons in case the grant needs to be evacuated. It is clear from the report of the composite committee that the proposal will only be partially approved, and this is something on which we broadly agree in the composite committee. There is therefore not a majority here in the Riksdag to highlight the geographical limitation at present – this is because of the concerns that have emerged earlier here in the debate regarding exactly where a newly introduced Swedish contribution will operate. The government has not yet completed discussions with the coalition on which of the four bases in addition to Erbil, where our current contribution is operating, which we could contribute with an increased Swedish contribution. It is therefore a question of where it could be placed. Sweden has presented its wishes to the coalition for placement. This is another area in Iraq. That has been done has also been reported to the composite committee. However, there is so far no response from the coalition to this request from Sweden. If you lift the geographical limit, it is highly likely that the coalition will respond to the request for placement that Sweden has given. The government is currently trying to confirm this. When this happens and the government can report this to the Riksdag, the government will present a new proposal and answer the questions raised in the report of the composite committee. I would like to stress the importance of lifting the geographical limitation that has prevailed so far, and I believe that in the future, too, when the site has been specified as well as the conditions for this place, there is a majority for this in Parliament. There are several reasons why we want to be able to operate on other bases than just the one in northern Iraq. Above all, it is a stated wish of the Iraqi Government and the coalition. In addition, it increases the impact of the Swedish contribution, as the needs in the field of education in Erbil are currently taken care of. Given the readmission of cities in large parts of Iraq, it is also important that we can support Iraqi security forces with training and training throughout the country. Lifting the geographical restriction does not mean that the mandate of the Swedish operation would in any way change. I want to be clear about that. The task, as stated in the bill and presented to the composite committee, is still to train and train the Iraqi defence forces. Nor would the Swedish contribution, with an extended geographical area, have conflicting tasks. A new grant also moves within the training and training area on site on the base. Moreover, the Government's desire to lift the geographical restriction does not mean that it is leaving the training mission in northern Iraq. This contribution will remain. Let me also touch on the situation in Iraq and Sweden's commitment in slightly broader terms. The central government of Baghdad, the Kurdistan regional government in Erbil, as well as our partners in the coalition, have expressed great appreciation for the Swedish contribution and its professionalism, which was also confirmed by the Prime Minister when he visited Baghdad and Erbil during the autumn. The developments in Mosul demonstrate the importance of defeating Daish militarily while minimising the risks to the civilian population. It has once again reminded us of the importance that the fight against Daish cannot be resolved by military means alone. This requires a broad and long-term commitment from the international community. A stable and democratically functioning Iraq is a prerequisite for defeating Daish in the long term. This requires that political divisions be overcome through an inclusive reconciliation process between all ethnic and religious groups. Effective implementation of the reforms pursued by Prime Minister Abadi is also required. In line with the current military successes around Mosul, it will be extremely important to also stabilise the withdrawn territories economically and politically in order to deal with fundamental societal problems and thus prevent the emergence of new terrorist groups after Daish has been defeated. Sweden has for a long time been working towards increased EU civilian engagement in support of the long-term stabilisation of Iraq. Sweden has received support for this approach. The military offensive against and the forthcoming liberation of Mosul raises the need for civilian stabilisation support. The government considers security sector reform and judicial development to be central and to be areas where the EU has added value through its long-term perspective of stabilisation. Mr President, I would like to In doing so, I would like to ask for approval of the proposal for a decision by the composite committee.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-954	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by addressing my thoughts to all the innocent civilians who are affected by Daish's ravages as well as the civilians who are actually affected when we drive Daish out. I am thinking not least of what is now happening in Mosul. It is extremely important that all those who have committed war crimes are then brought to justice. Mr President, I would like to The background to the political disintegration and the spiral of violence that we are seeing in Iraq today is very complex. Several different crises interact with each other. A basis for the violence has to do with the state of post-conflict that we have witnessed since the US invasion in 2003. Another factor has to do with the dynamics of internal politics in Iraq. There are several difficult lines of conflict and, as we all know, the internal political situation has deteriorated during the year. Not least has the civil war in Syria spilled over to Iraq. Daish has seen the opportunity to achieve its political goal: to form a common Islamic state of the areas under control in Syria and Iraq. All in all, this is a very serious situation, and the world cannot ignore the disaster that is now taking place in the region. Nor can we forget that it has a destabilising effect that extends far beyond the immediate vicinity, right into our society. It is therefore important that Sweden acts politically, humanitarianly and militarily to protect people's lives and security. The Iraqi Government has sent an invitation to the international community to help combat Daish. In two resolutions, the UN Security Council has also called on all countries of the world to provide assistance. The international legal basis for the operation is the invitation of the Iraqi Government. Against this background, the Green Party considers it a duty to stand up and fight for peace and security in the world. The training effort for Iraqi defence forces involved is a balanced measure. The main task is to provide advice and help train Iraqi defence capacity building and strengthen the ability to withstand Daish's advances. The efforts we make with regard to advice and training in health care, weapons management, fighting in buildings and detection of improvised explosive devices have been received with gratitude. Mr President, I would like to Of course, there are no simple solutions to complex problems. The day Daish has been defeated, challenging work will have to take on – a work to overcome contradictions and restore trust to heal a divided society. In addition to the purely military which we are discussing here today, it is important that we look at the overall effort made by Sweden. Sweden has previously also worked for political solutions, development cooperation and humanitarian aid in the area. With this broad approach to conflict resolution, we are helping to sow seeds for peace and security in the region. It is therefore gratifying that the government is increasing its support to the Iraqi population, with increased aid of nearly SEK 90 million to areas that have been freed from Daish. At the same time, we have commissioned Sida to develop a new five-year development strategy for Iraq that is planned to be launched in the middle of next year. The overall focus will be on peace and state building and gender equality, where we believe that Sweden has a clear added value. The foundation itself is about getting out quickly with help to fill the vacuum that otherwise easily occurs. People who have lived under Daish terror must be given the opportunity to create a future in which they can live a dignified life without threats and violence. Our hope is that the efforts will help many of those who have been forced to flee to other parts of the country to return home as soon as possible. The destruction and the needs of these areas are enormous. The efforts we contribute to through UNDP include repairing water and sewage systems, repairing clinics and schools, increasing access to electricity and creating job opportunities. Not only can we focus on urgent action, but we must also be able to do what can be done for long-term peace and sustainable development. Only in this way can we contribute to instilling faith in the future in those who will build up the region after the war. There must be a belief that there is a future after Daish's ravages, a future without senseless violence ideologies and oppression. The contribution that Sweden is making, Mr President, is about ending the barbaric abuse by Daish in the region, about making room for peace and security so that people can regain their lives, their everyday lives and their dignity. Terrorism is the greatest security threat we face today. That is why I am pleased that there is a consensus in this House, in the Swedish Parliament, that Sweden's work against terrorism should continue, that we stand by our common commitment. Mr President, I would like to With this, I support the committee's proposal to continue Swedish participation in the military training operation in northern Iraq. I also note that the committee proposes that the Parliament only partially approves the Government's proposal, with the restriction of only continuing to operate in northern Iraq. The committee looks forward to receiving a new proposal from the government in the event of an extension of the geographical area.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-970	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate the issue of Sweden's continued participation in the military training operation in Iraq, which is being carried out by the global coalition against Daish. The proposal includes, on the one hand, a doubling of the volume of the contribution from 35 to 70 people and, on the other hand, the possibility of providing a reinforcement resource of 150 people. We have also discussed the possibility of operating throughout the country. It is important to emphasise that the Swedish Parliament has strong support and a good commitment to Sweden's continuing Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. The heinous violence, the abuse, the killing and the devastation that Daish has caused for only a few years has been of a magnitude and a cruelty that it is actually difficult to absorb. It would be shameful to stand by and not act, not to stand up when people are most severely killed, persecuted and subjected to the most gross torture and humiliation. None of us have been able to escape the reports of the suffering and persecution of minority groups, such as Christians and Yazidians, Assyrians/Syrians, Chaldeans and others. Many of them are young women who have served as sex slaves and whose male families have been executed or forced to convert. I will come back to these questions. I will not repeat everything Mr Kenneth Forslund has said earlier about the position of the government, but I will try to add some other things. Several things have been mentioned in various contributions. We agree on the need to get back to where we should operate in Iraq. At the same time, it is important for us to reflect on how rapidly the situation is changing. I have tried to immerse myself in the changes of the last few weeks and have produced maps. I have also tried to use the evidence we have had to understand how different places have been taken and lost back and forth on several occasions in recent weeks. It is important that we together be humbled at the speed with which the situation is changing in both Syria and Iraq. We thought Palmyra was a city that had been taken, but it has been lost again. Our opponent Daish is not a simple opponent who easily lets himself be fought down. They regroup and attack where we least expect it. Some speakers have mentioned the possibility of setting up specific zones for certain minority groups with historic rights to certain areas. I respect and am humbled by this form of argument, but I think it is important that we remember what happened in Bosnia when we tried to do the same. The very areas where minority groups gathered became specific targets that were attacked with bombs, among other things. History shows that it is not easy to solve the protection of minority groups by gathering them in certain geographical locations. That's what history tells us. It has also been mentioned that we should export arms to some of the groups in the region. If there's somewhere I think we need to be careful, it's right here. To conquer each other's weapons depots and weapons is something we would least like to see. We must respect the integrity we want for the weapons exported from Sweden. Sweden already has an important role to play in supporting our arms exports. Arming certain groupings in one zone would be counterproductive for the line Sweden takes in other contexts. However, evaluation is important. It is not just a question of short-term evaluation, but also of long-term evaluation. I was in Iraq myself on 1 May 2003 when George Bush declared the war over in Iraq. Somewhere you have to think about how we ended up in this situation 13 years later with a country that is burning. What happened? Which institutions were not built up? Was it reconciliation that didn't come in place? What enabled Daish to explode in two three years and emerge from a place we didn't expect? Long-term evaluation, not just in a short perspective, is important. Let me conclude by saying something about the people who are victims of war. Only two hours ago, Nadia Murad, who was in Sweden six months ago, received the Sakharov Prize in the European Parliament. You see her here in the picture I hold in my hand. She got the award together with Lamiya Aji Bashar. There are two women who have become symbols of the abuse Daish stands for. Both have survived IS violence, and today, on 13 December, the two Iraqi-Yazid activists Nadia Murad and Lamiya Aji Bashar received the European Parliament's Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought. They are honoured by Parliament for their fight for the persecuted Yazidian minority and for the victims of the sexual violence of the Islamic State. It is important for us to keep them in mind when we are conducting the debate. Sometimes our debates can go into small details, but it is these people who pay the price every day that we do not manage to get along or move forward. We all share that responsibility.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-982	Mr President, I would like to Kent Härstedt almost apostrophated the Liberals when he thought that the idea of helping peshmerga too with defence equipment is not quite viable, at least not for the Social Democrats. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that even a trained soldier we leave behind can be used in future conflicts, just as defence equipment can be taken over by another group in a chaotic conflict area. We are not going to discuss arms exports here tonight, Mr President, but I have always found it a little strange that, while we see obstacles in our current practice in order, for example, to be able to assist Peshmerga in the fight against one of the worst movements the world has seen, this country, even under Social Democratic governments, has proved able to export defence equipment to both Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates as well as Pakistan. I mention the three examples because the three countries were the only ones on earth who once recognised the Taliban regime in Kabul. For me, this moral ideology does not really go together, and I feel compelled to present it.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-986	Mr President, I would like to That is also why we are now looking at arms exports. Let us hope that in the spring, when the proposals come, we will have strong support to actually tighten up those regulations. Of course, it is difficult to do anything about what has been. There is well reason for all of us to reflect on the fact that parts of it are things we do not feel so much pride in. But it has been done under both one and the other government. It is good that Mr Widman agrees with this. But then it is good that we will come forward together in the spring and make sure that these regulations are tightened up.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-989	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to share the optimism that Kent Härstedt feels about the possibility of a proposal on the proposals of the KEX investigation this spring. But I think we should realise that it may take longer than that. The proposals put forward by the KEX study do not go quite as far as I just recommended in the speaker's chair. I think it is perfectly reasonable to support legitimate fighting sides in such conflicts. All those who are making efforts for, as several speakers have said, the maintenance of respect for human rights, international law and so on, we shall also be able to actively support with defence equipment – like a large number of other Western and European countries.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-991	Mr President, I would like to However, Mr Widman has already said that it is worrying enough that a person we are training could actually switch sides. Is it not better, or less bad, for that person to switch sides without weapons in hand that we have delivered? When you read the reports of fragmentation and internal strife on the side that we support, you can see that this is a very loose and weakly coherent alliance. I would like to say that if this discussion were to take place at all, this is probably one of the worst examples, given how fragmented it is and how many internal conflicts there are within Kurdish groupings and so on. Take the full scope of this as an example. This is probably one of the worst examples if weapons were to be delivered to various groupings fighting on one side or the other. I was quite surprised when I read it, and I understand that Widman's party is quite lonely here in Parliament to stand for such an attitude. In fact, it is not responsible to have such a line.
i-X2uQZQenTumMHc9yVr3mJ4	Mr President, I would like to Since 2002, Sweden has been involved in military operations in Afghanistan, first through the International Security Force ISAF and then, since 2014, in the NATO training and advisory operation RSM. I would like to begin by emphasising that I believe that the Swedish army has done an excellent job in Afghanistan by making a team available in Mazar-e Sharif as part of the ISAF operation. It has supported the Afghan national army and the Afghan police with its own losses and has provided advisors. The Swedish war against Taliban has been waged with the aim of helping the country's population and creating democracy. As Swedish citizens, we can therefore be proud of our historic contribution to the country. With regard to international efforts, however, we believe that Sweden, with its extremely limited resources, should give priority to UN-led peacekeeping operations. We have seen how Sweden has chosen almost entirely to take part in UN-led peacekeeping operations and instead given priority to EU and NATO-led operations. We regret that. We see the UN as the primary cooperation body for dealing with conflicts and safeguarding peace and security. Furthermore, although the Swedish army and the rest of ISAF have carried out an exemplary effort with regard to Afghanistan, Mr President, we believe that a further border must be set for the Swedish commitment there. We believe that that border has been crossed and that it is now the duty of the Afghan peoples to take care of their own security together with other regional actors and oppose the Taliban. It is clear that in the best of worlds, Sweden could contribute everywhere to bring peace and stability, but unfortunately we have limited resources. After many years of political mismanagement of our own defence force, prioritising our own defence of existence for the benefit of international efforts in distant lands, we believe that our primary objective now must be to build such a defence capable of facing future threats here in our neighbourhood. We believe that the longer we stay in Afghanistan, the more we risk being drawn into a protracted civil war that may last for decades and cost the Swedish defence several funds that could instead be used for the construction of the defence in Sweden. In view of this, we are calling for the proposal to be rejected and for reservation to be accepted 1.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1001	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should not participate in NATO's continuation war in Afghanistan. Therefore, the proposal should be rejected. Since the representatives of both the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats in the committee are calling for rejection of the bill, we must have a joint reservation on this. However, I would like to emphasise that our parties differ fundamentally in their view of Sweden's commitment to Afghanistan. The policy of the Left Party for Afghanistan is based on solidarity with the Afghan people. We want Sweden to be a present and active player in the country. But this should be done through comprehensive aid and political efforts for peace, democracy and women's rights – not through military presence. Our solidarity with Afghanistan is also demonstrated in our party's commitment to a humane refugee policy and the possibility of legal pathways for asylum seekers. We have, on several occasions, criticised the rejection of Afghanistan in particular. We also reject the readmission agreement Sweden has signed with Afghanistan, which makes it easier to deport young Afghan citizens and which also opens the door to deport children. It is children and young people who in some cases have never been in Afghanistan but grew up in Pakistan or Iran. I think that when we take a look at the paleness of reflection, it will be seen as a decision of shame, which Sweden implements just as I stand here in the speaker's chair. Therefore, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 1. Sweden's participation in ISAF is one of the most extensive international efforts made by our country. It has been a costly effort, both in money and in human life. The total cost of the Swedish operation is unknown, but only reported direct costs amount to at least SEK 10 billion. The Left Party has repeatedly called for an independent evaluation of Swedish participation in ISAF and for such an evaluation or White Paper to include representatives of both Swedish and Afghan civil society. The Government also decided on 9 July 2015 to set up an investigation to evaluate the overall Swedish operation in Afghanistan in 2002– 2014. The Left Party is very doubtful about the structure of that evaluation. The government has appointed one of the politicians who was ultimately responsible for the military operation in Afghanistan to lead the evaluation alone. We find it difficult to see how it could be seen as an independent and credible evaluation. As far as I am concerned, the investigation would have been completed on 30 November this year, but this is clearly not the case. Perhaps the difficulties in delivering are due to the impossibility of the arrangement. In several other countries that have participated in ISAF, a different approach has been chosen and truly independent evaluations have been set up: in Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands. A White Paper on the Swedish military presence in Afghanistan would instead be a way of transparently presenting and evaluating the military operation as well as Sweden's support for police training, development aid and political and diplomatic work. In particular, it is important to evaluate how Sweden's various efforts have interacted with each other, what has been called civilian – military collaboration over the years. We therefore believe that an independent Commission should be set up with the task of producing a White Paper. Sweden could become a key player for peace, democracy and gender equality in Afghanistan. But this requires a shift of focus from military to civilian and political efforts. We welcome the fact that Sweden is granting more than SEK 8 billion in aid to Afghanistan until 2024. Afghanistan needs an inclusive peace and reconciliation process. In particular, it may be important for Afghanistan's women to be included in it. Since June 2015, there has been a National Afghan Action Plan aimed at implementing UN Resolution 1325. It is central to building a democratic and peaceful Afghanistan. The Left Party believes that the government should develop a national action plan for how Sweden can support the implementation of UN Resolution 1325 in Afghanistan, with the aim of strengthening Afghanistan's women and ensuring their increased influence in the peace process. In conclusion, Mr President, what we want to see is an end to participation in the war, an evaluation in the form of a White Paper and an effort at the arduous process of peace and reconciliation.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1015	Mr President, I would like to I would like to outline briefly the framework of the Resolute Support Mission and the Swedish effort. The strength allowance shall consist of a maximum of 50 persons. Today, the force is about 30 people, the majority of whom are stationed in northern Afghanistan, while a smaller group is located in Kabul. The support does not in itself have conflicting tasks, but its use of force is limited to the need for self-protection. If the situation requires it, it shall be possible to provide a temporary reinforcement and evacuation force of not more than 150 persons. Mr President, I would like to This is the third time we have debated the more limited RSM operation, but, as many people know, Sweden's military involvement in Afghanistan goes further back than that. At the formal handover in Mazar-e Sharif at the beginning of December, responsibility changed from continuation force 31 to relief force, FS32. So it's a 15-year story. The objective of the RSM is to contribute through support and advice to the progressive consolidation of Afghan security forces' capacity to manage security independently in the country. Concrete examples of what Swedish personnel contribute are advice for the planning of operations and exercises, examinations of newly trained staff and more. It is no secret that 2016 and 2015 have been characterised by continued negative developments in the security situation. This means, among other things, that the previous direction towards a transition to a kind of phase two and a more Kabul-centred presence is no longer up to date. Of course you can feel: Is it never going to turn around? It's never gonna get any better? It feels uncomfortable sometimes. At the same time, it is important to point out that progress has also been made in Afghanistan. Of the nearly 10 million children currently attending school, about half are girls, which is an almost 100% increase compared with the overthrow of the Taliban regime in 2001. It is also the case that the Afghan Government is calling for the continued support of the international community. It is therefore their assessment of the need for further training and counselling measures that underpin this decision. One might also wonder what the alternative is. Leaving Afghanistan to its fate is not an option for us. The ability of Afghan police and military forces to maintain law and order is a fundamental requirement for conditions to be in place at all to build functioning social structures and ensure peaceful development. I would like to quote Colonel Håkan Adén in connection with the handover the other week in Mazar-e Sharif: ..................................................... It should be remembered, I think, that when we talk about terrorism, it is not citizens in our part of the world who are most vulnerable, but it is primarily civilians in countries such as Syria, Pakistan and Afghanistan who are forced to live every day in the shadow of violence and terror. At the same time, of course, we must see that there is no purely military solution to ensure a long-term stable Afghanistan. There is also a need for sustainable development in terms of governance, human rights and the rule of law. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1026	Mr President, I would like to Last time we debated Afghanistan, I was talking about people I met in Afghanistan, especially women, who thought it was important and felt that they wanted a future. But I feel that things are getting worse and worse, and I feel pretty insecure about it. That is why my appeal is: do not forget Afghanistan! There are so many countries in the world, but don't forget Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, the number of civilian victims is increasing. According to the UN, the number of civilian victims of the war increased by 4 per cent in 2015. At least 3,545 civilians were killed and 7,454 injured. The increase was, of course, mainly due to more fighting or attacks in populated areas. Of these, more children are victims of war. The UN claims that during the first three months 161 children were killed and 449 injured, which is 29 percent more than in the first quarter of 2015. Even more and more soldiers are being killed. The Afghan Armed Forces' losses increased sharply in 2016. From the turn of the year to the middle of August this year 5,523 soldiers were killed. That is several hundred more than the number in 2015, which was then regarded as a catastrophic figure. During the same period, another 10,000 soldiers were wounded. Mr President, I would like to Let me give you some examples of what has happened in 2016 in Afghanistan: January 20: Seven employees of the private TV channel Tolo are killed in a suicide attack in Kabul. The Taliban take on the deed and say it's a revenge for the television station's propaganda. 19 April: 64 people are killed and 347 injured in a suicide attack and subsequent shootings in central Kabul. The Taliban are taking on the attack, which is the bloodiest since 2011. June 30: 30 people are killed and 58 wounded when two suicide bombers attack a bus column with police cadets on the western outskirts of Kabul. The Taliban are taking on the deed. July 23: Massacre on demonstration Shia Muslims. Up to 80 people are killed and 230 injured in a suicide attack, including the one in Kabul. Most of the victims are Shia Muslims. Start of September: Three terrorist attacks within 24 hours. At least 48 people are killed and over 100 injured when three bombings are carried out in Kabul in less than 24 hours. 11 October: At least 18 people are killed when some men open fire inside a Shiitian mosque in Kabul during the celebration of the important weekend ashura. About 50 people are wounded in the attack. The Islamic State claims to have carried it out. November 10: At least six people are killed and over 120 injured when Taliban attack Germany's consulate in Mazar-e Sharif. A truck full of explosives destroys the wall around the building, after which a firefight breaks out inside the area. The explosion is so strong that surrounding buildings are partially demolished and windows are crushed several kilometers away. This will be a small item in Swedish newspapers, because it was not Germans but local employees who were affected. But there were people, Afghans, who worked there. November 12th, suicides on American air base. Four Americans are killed and 16 Americans and a Pole are injured in a suicide attack inside the Bagram air base north of Kabul. November 21: Attack against a Shiamosque. At least 30 people are killed and tens injured when a suicide bomber attacks a Shia Mosque in Kabul. The Mosque was full of prayers that took part in an important festival. These are the figures I have until the end of November. For me, therefore, as a great and warm friend of Afghanistan, it is important that we help to help and educate. I therefore find the attitude of both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party regrettable, although they have different starting points. I do not think that conflict should be resolved by violence either, but we see what it looks like. In some way we must help the Afghan army to deal with this, because the situation is getting worse and worse. For all men, women and children in Afghanistan, it is important that we have peace and quiet. It is therefore important for the Afghan army to be able to cope with this. That is why I would like to support the committee's proposal. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish a calm and merry Christmas and a happy new and calmer year for all our Swedish soldiers in foreign service. Thank you for what you're doing!
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1043	Mr President, I would like to The Afghan people have suffered great hardships for decades of war. Despite a large international military presence with at most over 100 000 soldiers in place to ensure the security of the country, Afghanistan is still a very dangerous country to live in. It is also one of the world's poorest countries. It has now been some 15 years since the fall of the Taliban regime in autumn 2001 and was replaced by an interim government. But it soon became clear that there was no military solution to the conflict. It was an insight that was later shared by both the United Nations and the United States. Against this background, the Green Party called for a clear exit strategy for Afghanistan in 2010. It was a strategy that also became a reality in 2014 with ISAF's withdrawal and phasing-in of the RSM, which we are discussing an extension of here today. Unfortunately, we can see that developments on the ground in Afghanistan have not gone in the direction that we would have liked and that the country and its people need. The armed conflict has worsened over the past year. The conflict between the government of Kabul and armed resistance, including the Taliban, is still ongoing. Attacks and acts of violence are part of everyday life. There is no doubt that the situation is serious. It is also a serious obstacle to Afghanistan's development. In addition to persistent poverty, corruption and lawlessness are also widespread. At the same time, the country has a major challenge in the area of gender equality. There is a long way to go to equal participation in society and in the home. Mr President, I would like to Negative developments in Afghanistan have consequences for security both in the region and globally. This puts severe strain on the hard-tested people of Afghanistan. That is why it is so important that the international community, including Sweden, continues to support and assist the Afghan Government. We cannot abandon the country now, in this fragile situation, as some people wish. It would counteract stabilisation and peaceful development. The Green Party and the government believe that we should continue to provide support and advice so that the country's security forces strengthen their capabilities so that they can eventually take over responsibility for their security. It is a blessing and an expression of solidarity of which we as a country should be proud. We need long-term political, diplomatic, humanitarian, military and development cooperation support. In addition to the RSM, I would like to highlight the aid that Sweden provides. Sweden's involvement in Afghanistan is not just or primarily a military effort. In fact, Afghanistan is one of the largest recipients of Swedish aid. A significant part focuses on the most vulnerable, that is, women and children. In addition to humanitarian aid, aid has focused on education, human rights and gender equality. Mr President, I would like to It is sometimes said that this aid has made no difference, that the Afghans have not been better off and that poverty has not been reduced. But that is not true when we talk about development in the broad perspective, which is absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, there has been a tendency in the wake of the great evaluation that came a few years ago, funded by Sida, to focus solely on money and income when it comes to poverty in Afghanistan. Income is, of course, fundamental, but, as we all know, poverty is much more than that. It is about control of one's own life, access to health care and education, the ability to exercise one's rights and to plan for the future. By these standards, Afghanistan has actually made some progress over the last 13 years. Today, for example, millions more children go to school, and millions more of them are girls. This is a major improvement from 2001, when only 1 million children went to school, of which only 5 000 were girls. Today, too, the situation of women is far better than it was 15 years ago, according to the Afghan Independent Commission on Human Rights, although we have a long way to go. Today, health services reach out to more, maternal and infant mortality is decreasing and large and necessary infrastructure efforts have been made. These are great successes that deserve attention, and it is for these reasons that we shall continue our engagement in Afghanistan. Because it is my belief that, step by step, we can actually promote peace, equality and development in Afghanistan. Of course, with a comprehensive commitment, responsibility and an obligation will also ensure the effectiveness and effectiveness of actions. Therefore, I look forward to the investigation that the government has set up to evaluate the overall Swedish operation in Afghanistan in 2002– 2014. I hope that it will give us guidance on how we can proceed with this important work. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to highlight UN Resolution 1325, which aims at concrete measures for women and girls in conflict. Being able to participate on an equal footing with citizens of a society is a question of democracy and human rights. If half the population does not participate, we do not have democracy, and then we do not live up to human rights. And we know how important gender equality is in creating development. Resources must be invested in the need for protection and support that women and girls have during a conflict, when women are often forced to take over men's duties, and after a conflict, when civil society needs to be rebuilt. Women's crucial tasks and role in peace processes and crisis management cannot be emphasised enough. It is therefore important that Sweden acts to improve the work on Resolution 1325 as well as with UN Resolution 1820 on sexual violence in conflicts. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1058	Mr President, I would like to I think what is being said here is important: that many more children go to school and that there is some civil progress, so to speak. But linking it to the military effort seems to me to lead the thought a little wrong. It can be said that it is often precisely the civil organisations that have achieved the great successes on the civilian side. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee is responsible for reading and caring for the sick, not the military. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which should be a fairly large authority in this area, wants to see an end to military intervention in Afghanistan. They feel that it makes their work more difficult and jeopardises it. I could stand here and list names, but I won't. I am thinking of the people who were killed when a hospital belonging to Doctors Without Borders was bombed in Kunduz, Afghanistan. NATO says that in an air strike conducted by the United States, the hospital may have met, and that was boring. If the military operation is to be assessed, it must be linked to the security situation. It is no secret that the security situation is now basically worse than ever. After all these years of warfare, the security of the people of Afghanistan is worse than ever. That is what military intervention should match. Then this is no wonder. The US mission does not include the construction of any state. That is what Richard Holbrooke said when he was the special representative of the United States for Afghanistan and Pakistan: transforming Afghan society is not our mission. Girls' schooling can be an important issue in many places. We are in Afghanistan based on our own national security interests.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1062	Mr President, I would like to If Stig Henriksson had listened carefully enough, I think he had heard that I did not in any way say that the military effort per se led to girls going to school. I talked about the great package that Sweden has in its cooperation with Afghanistan and its people and civil society. There, of course, the Afghanistan Committee has played, and plays, an extremely large and important role. However, I and the Green Party believe that it would be irresponsible now to withdraw from Afghanistan, as the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats believe it should be done. If security cannot be maintained, it is also not possible to allow the country to develop at the necessary pace. It is therefore important that we give the opportunity to build up safety skills, so that we can take over that responsibility. So far, you can't. Just as Stig Henriksson says, it is the security situation that makes us have the military there – of course. But why do you, Stig Henriksson, choose to withdraw in the serious situation that prevails?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1064	Mr President, I would like to Well, I really tried to listen to Pernilla Stålhammar, because I think she often makes very interesting contributions that break a little bit of the tradition, so to speak, in the Chamber. But it is still Sweden's military presence in Afghanistan that we are discussing. When you then develop as an argument that more children go to school etcetera it is quite easy to say that there could be a connection there. On the other hand, the link between foreign military in Afghanistan and the civilian relief work has no support from the Swedish Afghanistan Committee – no support. Rather, they stress the need not to be associated in any way with those forces. It ultimately puts their lives at risk. If you want to support, for example, the work of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, you should say no to the military effort, as the Left Party does. Again, I'm going to say something about the state building we're talking about--we're just a small part of what's really America's big effort. What, for example, does Barnett Rubin, who advises the US administration, particularly on Afghan issues? He says this: I hope I will not disappoint you, but the real objectives of Afghanistan are not an effort for state building and development. This is going to happen again and again, but let's pretend it's not. I can't understand how you can continue with that charade. Why don't you tell me the truth? There are no such goals in the United States – it is the United States that is leading this coalition by far. The goal is the security of the United States itself. That's what you say in plain language. I guess we have to believe that.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1068	Mr President, I would like to I can only go back to what our goal is. That's helping the Afghan population. Then you need to work on many different planes with the package that I mention. Aid is very important there. I would therefore like to make it clear that progress is also being made in civil terms, so to speak. The aid we have in Afghanistan is moving forward. We see a development. Having said that, we still believe that we need the military operation in Afghanistan to continue the work. Then it is a question of building a country, of building up administration and of building up the structures that enable a country to regain stability.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1070	Mr President, I would like to Swedish security is related to how to build security in other countries around the world. The understanding of what is happening in the world today shows that we must help each other and continue to help each other and contribute to both peace and security efforts. As we have heard before, the armed conflict in Afghanistan has worsened in scope and intensity over the past year. The conflict is a serious threat to the country's development. The security situation in the country and in the region has deteriorated. It affects us and the rest of the world. Developments differ between the different provinces of the country. Since the withdrawal of international forces, security in Afghanistan has deteriorated. Armed resistance from the Taliban movement in particular has shifted from guerrilla warfare to conventional war, with ground fighting to conquer territory. Today, the Taliban movement is judged to be stronger than before, despite internal divisions and change of leadership. The deteriorating security situation has led to an increase in the number of civilian victims in the first half of 2016, compared to 2015. In principle, all 34 provinces of the country are affected by the conflicts. Of course, it varies widely between different provinces. But the situation is far from stable, and control over many regions varies from time to time. By May, the Afghan Government had lost control of an additional 5% of the country's territory, from 70.5 percent to 65.6 percent. In Helmand Province, the Taliban want their leadership. There the situation is particularly serious. The Taliban controlled October 6 of Helmand's 14 districts. Several attacks are being carried out on district centres, Afghan forces and roads. In June, there was a report that more than 50 of Afghanistan's approximately 400 districts were under serious security threat and that 9 of them were beyond the control of the Afghan Government. Sweden has continued to have a great responsibility to participate with other countries and help build security in Afghanistan. The deteriorating security situation places considerable strain on national security forces, and the ability of government forces to manage security in the country varies. The negative developments justify continuing international military training and advice to the Afghan security forces. And the Afghan government is asking for continued help and support. Sweden needs to continue to provide long-term assistance to the Afghan Government. It needs development, stability and a secure society. It is also important that we make demands on the Afghan state. The aim is to tackle corruption and to ensure that civil society works with the police and justice system and that there is order and structure in the social functions. The mission is based on international law and includes a non-combatant effort to provide training, advice and support to the Afghan security forces. We have a broad long-term commitment in Afghanistan, and we cannot leave Afghanistan in the current critical situation. The Center Party is ready to continue contributing to and deciding on further efforts in Afghanistan. The purpose of this operation is to contribute to and assist the Afghan security forces' ability to manage the country's security independently and to achieve long-term stability. It is important that Swedish international efforts are evaluated and analysed on an ongoing basis. It also requires concrete and follow-up objectives. The objectives presented for the 2017 operation could be more concrete and follow-up. It is therefore desirable for the government to present clearer national targets that can be followed up for future further extensions. It is essential that the objectives can be followed up and that the Swedish effort can be evaluated. Madam President, I would like When the Riksdag now authorises the Government to send a Swedish armed force to another country, this means a significant effort and significant responsibility. This is a risky mission, a mission where Swedish personnel can be subjected to armed violence. With great humility, I would like to extend warm thanks to our seconded staff representing Sweden in Afghanistan and carrying out this important task.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1082	Madam President, I would like It must well be noted, almost 15 years after the start of the global effort in Afghanistan, that the result has not been what we hoped it would have been. In my world, however, this is not primarily a military failure. About ten years ago, the presence of ISAF with over 100 000 foreign soldiers in Afghanistan created the conditions for building the country that will deliver lasting positive results. Pernilla Stålhammar has already mentioned that millions of girls have been allowed to attend school. Those girls would never have been allowed to go to school if the Taliban had ruled Afghanistan during those years, Stig Henriksson. The military presence was therefore absolutely necessary. In my view, however, it was a major political failure. Among other things, there was far too little aid. I would like to recall that for every dollar spent on aid ten years ago, SEK 6 to 7 was invested in the military effort. Nor was it able to bring together the major regional powers which were strongholders in Afghanistan. I am thinking of India, Pakistan, Iran, China and others. A prerequisite for finding a peaceful solution was that those countries sat at the table and that they co-operated with them and found a common agenda. This was neglected. It took seven eight years for the United States to appoint a joint envoy for Pakistan and Afghanistan alone. There was too little on that score. I also belong to those who believe that Afghanistan, which is a divided country, both geographically, ethnically and religiously, had been well off by quite extensive regional self-government. But the global effort pointed out that an effective central power in Kabul would govern this multifaceted and comprehensive country. It fell on its own impossibility that it would be good. As far as military presence is concerned, it is now about 10 percent of what it was ten years ago. It goes without saying that security developments on this basis are going in the wrong direction. When it spoke, at 2007-2008, nearly 60 nations, from around the world and from all continents, participated in the effort. Now it's just under forty. Sweden is now sending what we call FS31 to Afghanistan. FS is an abbreviation for continuing strength. We Liberals believe that we should probably start discussing the continuation of what we are sending the soldiers for. We need national, concrete, measurable targets for the operation. One cannot continue to renew one's commitment to the future. You have to create a picture of where you are going, what criteria apply to a so-called exit and so on. Many have left. Liberals don't want us to leave. But we want there to be Evaluatable targets. Madam President, I would like I am deeply grateful that the Liberals' motion in this part has won the support and approval of the committee.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1091	Madam President, I would like It was wise reflections Allan Widman came up with on the possibility of a military effort to succeed, if one succeeds not only to win the war but above all to win the peace. That's what it's really about. It honors him very much. I'm not going into the history of all these years. But the important thing is that we now stand where we stand. We also know that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which is reasonably competent in this area and how civilian efforts can bear good fruit, does not believe that military presence facilitates their work – in the situation that has been for some years. As Allan Widman says, security is going the wrong way. Maybe it's worse than it's been since the military invasion began. The coalition is decimated at a rather rapid rate. It has been almost 15 years, and we again have a worse security situation. Then the answer cannot be more of the same. Allan Widman makes correct observations, including the great need to evaluate everything we do. But not least when we talk about risking the lives and members of Swedish men and women in these operations, there should be clear objectives, and independent evaluations should be carried out. I want to put extra pressure on the independent thing. My question remains: how can Allan Widman, following these good observations and reflections, conclude that the best thing we can do is to continue with what has not so far been successful?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1096	Madam President, I would like Stig Henriksson said in his speech that we should stop the war in Afghanistan. For those who listen to the debate, I would like to emphasise that Sweden does not wage war in Afghanistan. We are training the security forces in Afghanistan so that they can defend their country – not only against Taliban but now unfortunately also against Daish who has established himself in the country. That's a reasonable starting point, isn't it, Stig Henriksson? If, for example, Sweden believes that it has the right to have a military defence against external enemy – perhaps not for internal enemy because we have a police authority to deal with it – all other countries obviously also have this right. What would happen if the Afghan security forces had not been trained in those years? Would the security situation then be better or worse in Afghanistan? That is a relevant question for Stig Henriksson to consider. Then I never believed in the idea of having military personnel and aid workers next to each other. I would like to recall that several former Secretary-General of the Afghanistan Committee have protested against the idea that has existed in some other countries that have also been active in Afghanistan. On this point, I fully agree with Stig Henriksson's view that aid workers are then exposed to unnecessary risks. However, we could never have achieved what we have achieved in Afghanistan, had there not been a military presence. If this country is to have a secure and good future at some point, Madam President, it must nevertheless be able to take care of its own threats and risks. That is why we should help to educate them in this. It is correct, Stig Henriksson, that I have pushed very actively for evaluation of the overall Swedish effort in Afghanistan that has cost over SEK 10 billion. I'm waiting very hard for the results of the investigation.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1101	Madam President, I would like We do not wage war, but we participated in a de facto war when we even bombed hospitals. It wasn't us Swedes personally, but we participated in this war, you can't get away from that. We've been in war for the first time in 200 years. There has been some fine talk about the government in Afghanistan and how well we need and wish our support. But the hand to the heart, the government in Afghanistan is corrupt. Basically, it's a tribal conspiracy. Of course you have the right to have a defence, but if, after 15 years of training and after equipment for billions of dollars, you cannot even keep the provincial capitals under control and far less the greater part of Afghanistan's territory, it must surely say a little about how fruitless this is. There's a lot more to say about this. According to a definition of Einstein, madness is the same as doing the same thing over and over again and expecting another result. I am very concerned that it is this kind of madness that we and the 30 remaining countries in the coalition are doing in Afghanistan. We continue to do the same and the security situation is deteriorating. More and more people in Afghanistan are getting hurt. And what do we do? Yes, we are entering into a readmission agreement with Afghanistan to send back young people who have never lived there. It is a disgrace to Sweden, but it belongs to another area of debate, so I will leave that to you. Once again, we are part of a coalition led by the United States that has no ambitions whatsoever in the area of state-building. We try to fool ourselves if we don't fool others. As I quoted from Richard Holbrooke and from Barnett Rubin, renown people in the US leadership, there are no such ambitions, so let us not be fooled. But apparently we do.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1106	Madam President, I would like I think Stig Henriksson now makes it very easy for himself. In addition to being the most prominent and dominant participant in Afghanistan since 2001, the United States has also been the single country that has provided the most assistance to Afghanistan. Unfortunately, it has been quite little in relation to the costs that have been spent on the military, but the United States has been the largest donor for many years. The Secretary-General of NATO at the time, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, said that if we don't go to Afghanistan, Afghanistan will come to us. It was like calling in the whole security problem that you saw at the time. If you do not make a contribution, this will spread to the Middle East and perhaps eventually to Europe. In some cases it has happened too. Every military operation, Madam President, leads to mistakes. It's inevitable. It's happening in every operating area. But when mistakes are made, investigations are made, guilty people are pointed out, and they are brought to justice for the mistakes they may have made. But that is quite another thing when Taliban use civilians, not only as deliberate targets for their bombs but also as shields to protect their own troops. In my world, Madam President, it is far worse. Then Stig Henriksson said that the corrupt regime in Kabul – and I can agree with him – will not make it through this. It almost sounds like Stig Henriksson is calling on the government in Kabul to surrender. But, Stig Henriksson, it will not lead to a better safety situation. This will not lead to better conditions for aid. It will lead the other way. I think it is important that we now stop and evaluate to see what the current Swedish effort will lead to. What goals are we going to achieve, and what is the continuation of the journey?
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1111	Madam President, I would like The prolonged armed conflict in Afghanistan has worsened in scale and is the main obstacle to Afghanistan's development. Negative developments in Afghanistan have consequences, not only for the security of the region but also globally. The deteriorating security situation in the country places considerable strain on Afghan security forces whose overall ability to manage security in the country is highly uneven. The negative development of the security situation in Afghanistan underlines the need for continued international military training and advice to the Afghan security forces. This is also a support specifically requested by Afghanistan. It is clear that the Afghan Government needs long-term support in its quest for a stable and secure society – a prerequisite for long-term development cooperation. For us Christian Democrats, it is essential that foreign policy is value-based. Sweden shall stand up for and defend universal values such as human rights and freedoms, democracy and the rule of law in order to strengthen peace, freedom and development, understanding and reconciliation. For us, it is important that we support Afghanistan with our various foreign policy tools: diplomatically, with aid efforts and militarily. We support the committee proposal in the report and thus the continued Swedish participation in the NATO training and advisory mission, the RSM, until 31 December 2017. In a special opinion, we Christian Democrats have chosen to place particular emphasis on respect for international humanitarian law. We believe that it deserves both attention and, above all, that it must be strengthened. As the RSM is an educational and advisory effort, it is essential that the Afghan security forces are trained in international humanitarian law. The same applies to continuing training in human rights. The ability of the security forces to deal with the country's security is undermined by all the crimes that are unfortunately committed. The civilian population loses faith in both the government and the important work of the international community when international humanitarian laws are not respected in such a difficult conflict as that in Afghanistan. In May of this year, following widespread violations of humanitarian law, the Security Council adopted Resolution 2286 on attacks on health care in conflict areas. This is important, but as long as we cannot see changes on the ground in Afghanistan, we must continue to fight for the law of war to be respected. We owe this to the civilian population in Afghanistan and to the so many brave women and men who are risking their lives on a daily basis to ensure that the country's security and development move in the right direction.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1121	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by reporting on the government proposal for a Swedish participation in the NATO training and counselling operation, Resolute Support Mission, in Afghanistan. The government and the Armed Forces have been in the composite committee and presented the bill and answered questions. The NATO training and counselling operation, the RSM, was launched on 1 January 2015 and aims to provide continued support to the Afghan security forces. In the bill that has now been presented, the Government proposes that the Riksdag admit that Sweden will continue to participate in 2017 with an armed force of up to 50 people on site in Afghanistan. This means an unchanged number compared to 2016, and the force should continue to be temporarily strengthened with a maximum of 150 people to rescue the grant if necessary, i.e. to be able to evacuate it. Unfortunately, we can see that there has been a gradual deterioration in the security situation in Afghanistan over time. However, I do not share the view expressed by Stig Henriksson in this debate that it would be worse than ever before. However, the increasing number of civilian victims is not least worrying. In view of this, Sweden makes the same assessment as NATO, that it is the difficult security situation that calls for a continued military presence and for support in the form of training and advice to the Afghan security forces in line with the non-combatant mandate of the RSM. I would like to emphasise this very strongly: non-combatant mandates. Otherwise you can get a different opinion when you listen to certain debates. The Afghan Government has also clearly called for continued support at the current level. In response to this demand, Sweden has chosen to continue to participate in this, and on the basis of the assessments made regarding the conditions on the ground, it is therefore proposed that the contribution continues to the current extent in 2017. The deteriorating security situation means that Sweden, together with the rest of the RSM circuit, is discussing the continued strategy of the operation. Sweden stressed at the meeting held in Brussels a few weeks ago the importance of a broad approach to creating a long-term sustainable security situation through a political solution. This work will continue in the spring. Madam President, I would like It is also important that we continue to work towards a civilian-led effort in the future. The time is not yet ripe for this, and conditions on the ground must determine when we can begin the transition to this phase. However, we must continue to work on and prepare for how best to manage the transition to the civilian-led operation. Afghanistan has been affected by an armed conflict for nearly four decades. It is crucial to get a genuine peace process under way. Neighbouring countries and the support of the wider region play a central role in building a peace process. Long-term sustainable development can only be achieved through a political solution to the conflict. This also demonstrates the importance of complementarity between the efforts of the international community. The Afghan Government must also make its own contribution. Political and economic reforms must go hand in hand in order to build security in Afghanistan. Madam President, I would like There are many challenges and, as has been said, the Afghan Government must take its responsibility to move the country in the right direction. At the same time, the support of Sweden and the international community is a prerequisite for Afghanistan to make further progress towards peace and democracy. We must work in Afghanistan on a broad and long-term basis with political action, aid efforts and military contributions. During the year, the international community reaffirmed its long-term support to Afghanistan at the NATO summit in Warsaw in July and at the donors' conference in Brussels in early October. The Brussels Conference resulted in commitments to continue international support for Afghanistan by 2020 totalling USD 15,2 billion. Sweden already announced a grant of approximately SEK 8 billion in 2012 during the period 2015– 2024. The international community's commitments confirm that Afghanistan, under the leadership of the two-year-old unity government, is on track and that the focus must now be on implementing the ambitious political and economic reforms that have been laid down. The Afghan Government remains under great political pressure in view of the difficult security situation and the economic situation in the country. Moreover, in some respects, the collective government is still hampered by internal differences of opinion. In addition to the deteriorating security situation and the challenges of humanitarian work, there is also political uncertainty that contributes to low levels of investment and an outflow of capital from the country. In addition, the human rights situation in Afghanistan is, in general, very worrying. This is particularly true of women's and girls' rights. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to point out that important progress has been made in Afghanistan over the last 15 years. There is a reform agenda. We see that anti-corruption measures are being taken, and all our work on equal rights for women and girls has started to produce results, although much work remains to be done. I would therefore like to call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be approved.
i-d9bba3683cb937ff-1134	Madam President, I would like We must support and be there for Afghanistan in the long-term work of a stable and safe country. The international community at the head of the UN must do this, and we believe that Sweden must do the same. A stable and secure Afghanistan is a prerequisite for the country's development to be turned into something positive. The prolonged armed conflicts in Afghanistan have worsened in scope and intensity over the past year and constitute the main obstacle to the country's development. At this point, we can turn to someone else and let him help the Afghan people in the work of security. We can sit and wait for the situation to be peaceful and for society to become secure and stable, or we can heed the difficult situation and continue the fundamental: to help create stability and security. Security and development require each other to achieve impact. Without peace no development and without development no peace. We can see this again and again. Sweden has also supported the new sustainability goals adopted by the UN in autumn 2015. Sustainability objective No. 16 is about peaceful and inclusive societies. We are committed to promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, to ensuring that everyone has access to justice and to building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. The aim of Sweden's participation in the RSM is to support the ability of the Afghan security forces to take responsibility for the security situation themselves and to provide stability and security for the Afghan people in the long term. The continued Swedish contribution in RSM is a minor part of Sweden's broad commitment to Afghanistan. Sweden is actively working both through the UN and the EU as well as directly with Afghanistan for peace and reconciliation, development and stability, as well as for gender equality and increased respect for human rights. Afghanistan is one of the world's poorest countries, and a large part of the population lives below the poverty line. The need for outside help, from the rest of us, remains great. And Afghanistan has outside support. As mentioned earlier, the international community at an international donor conference in Brussels in autumn 2016 confirmed its continued support for Afghanistan's development. However, if we mean something by this, we must also be prepared to assist Afghanistan in the search for security. Afghanistan is one of the largest recipients of Swedish development aid. Between 2014 and 2019, Sweden has allocated a total of SEK 4.87 billion. In addition, we have promised support for development in the country with just over SEK 8 billion for the period up to 2024. Security and assistance require each other to achieve impact. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated. This is because the security situation has deteriorated. In addition to long-term Swedish aid, Sweden is contributing a humanitarian aid that in 2015 amounted to SEK 145 million. Until mid-November 2016, humanitarian aid amounted to SEK 180 million. Sweden's work for strengthened democracy and gender equality, increased respect for human rights and freedom from repression in Afghanistan is extremely important. Swedish aid will lead to more women and men being able to participate in democratic processes and demand responsibility from authorities and elected representatives. This assistance will strengthen civil society in efforts to improve respect for human rights and contribute to transparency and scrutiny of public institutions. Aid will help to develop public institutions so that they can provide basic services to the Afghan people – schools where children receive education, hospitals where people receive care, water, energy, roads, work and livelihoods. Swedish aid will lead to increased respect for human rights with a particular focus on women's and girls' opportunities to enjoy their human rights. Without security no peace, without peace no development and without development no security. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
