i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-8	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me how I and the government are moving forward with the proposal for a national ban on micrograins of plastic in cosmetic products that are washed off. The contamination of microplastics poses a serious threat to the organisms living in the sea and also to human health. They can penetrate the animal's tissues and cause damage or disturbances in metabolism and reproduction. Many plastics can also bind fat soluble molecules. There is a risk that they could thus transport persistent environmental toxins into the nutrient web. Reducing the pollution of microplastics in the sea should therefore be seen as a precautionary measure in reducing toxins in everyday life. In January 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to further develop the plan of action for a non-toxic everyday life in order to step up efforts to achieve the environmental quality target Non-toxic environment. The mandate includes that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate should propose national restrictions if deemed necessary. Examples of areas to be studied by the Agency include microplastics. The government has considered the deliberate use of microplastics in cosmetic products and other products to be an appropriate area for consideration of national restrictions. There is currently no EU regulation of microplastics. Furthermore, despite repeated requests from Sweden and other Member States, the European Commission has not submitted a proposal for regulation, most recently at the Environment Council in December 2014. In its report on the mandate, the Agency considers that the EU Chemicals Regulation REACH does not constitute an obstacle to a national ban on microplastics in cosmetic products. The Authority's study of the market in Sweden showed that 40 per cent of the products examined contained micrograins made of plastic. The Agency's accounts also confirm that the use of microplastics in cosmetic products is completely unnecessary as there are workable and more environmentally friendly alternatives. Manufacturers and traders should therefore long ago have removed such products from their range. Madam President, I would like Voluntary action by industry is important. I therefore welcome the responsibility that has been assumed by several producers. They have reduced the environmental impact and, at the same time, shown that adequate alternatives can be found. For the results of voluntary action to be sustained, they need to be backed up by regulation. The government's position is that when the EU's regulatory framework is not enough, Sweden should take precedence. This is one such case. Banning microplastics in rinse-off cosmetic products would be an easy step to ensure reduced discharges of microplastics into the sea. The Agency's accounts are now subject to consultation. The Government will then take a position on the proposal. Madam President, I would like In parallel, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to identify important sources in Sweden for the release of microparticles of plastic into the sea and work to reduce emissions from these sources. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency must report the assignment no later than 15 June 2017. Other relevant authorities shall contribute to the systematic and coordinated implementation of the mission. Waste policy can also help halt the growth of microplastics. Several initiatives have been taken at both EU and national level. One such example is the EU requirements for reduced consumption of plastic carrier bags, where the Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to propose how this should be implemented in Sweden. I can state that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's implementation of the assignment is in full swing. Last November, a workshop was held with representatives from municipalities, industry organisations, waste organisations, environmental organisations and academia. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has commissioned IVL Svenska Miljöinstitutet to report a survey of sources of microplastic dispersion pathways in the sea. IVL will report its survey next week. My goal with the assignments to the Swedish Chemicals Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is for Sweden to become a leading country in developing and implementing measures that reduce the spread of microplastics in the environment. I have good hopes that we will be able to get there.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-19	Madam President, I would like Deputy prime minister Dr. Åsa Romson. That is how the Minister for Climate and Environment was presented at the major climate summit in Paris last year. It is a title that is very compulsory, perhaps not mainly because of the doctoral title but because it is the Deputy Prime Minister in Sweden. Sweden has for a long time been ahead of environmental policy and research. Thanks to growth, research and, to some extent, a courageous policy, we are ahead of us in many policy areas relating to the environment and climate. A clear example of this was when the Environment and Agriculture Committee the other day considered a subsidiarity test with regard to the restriction of mercury, which is a matter of course for us for decades. It shows that we are way ahead. But when we talk about microplastics, looking out into the world can make you feel a little distant. Many countries suffer from the clearest environmental problem of air pollution after cooking food over open fire indoors. It is clear that they have a different problem and therefore other solutions. But as free economies develop, they will probably rush through industrialization and digitalisation faster than we have done. Then they too will have to ask these questions, i.e. that the research we develop and the environmental policy we write will be read and taken on board by others. It is therefore important that we do the right thing from the beginning when it comes to microplastics. We know today that microplastics are found in almost all watercourses. However, we find it difficult to cleanse them, and we do not really have the opportunity to do so on a large scale today. That is why it is important how we move forward. That is also why I have chosen to put this interpellation. In the case of microplastics, the Government mentions that the EU currently has no regulation. However, for example, chemicals legislation, which also applies to substances that we find difficult to see with the naked eye, is harmonised within the EU. That is why it is interesting to think about what EU regulation will look like in the future and that it will be proposed, as the government has also highlighted to the Commission. I think it is a good thing that we have harmonised legislation in Europe on chemicals. I think that would be an advantage also in the case of microplastics, because emissions do not care about national land borders and because trade barriers are a threat to development and free trade that creates growth. Growth is important when we want to take environmental measures. In addition, you can add global value chains that are not entirely unimportant. Therefore, in my first speech, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers to clarify what the government really thinks of national measures, a little more than what the European Union is doing today. The EU is examining whether the voluntary phase-out of the industry is taking place sufficiently quickly or whether EU rules are required. Is there more to report on this process, or does the government make its own assessment? Is it correct to understand that the government would rather see demands at EU level than these national special rules?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jesper. I was quite clear and detailed in my initial reply and explained all the initiatives the government is working on right now that have bearings on microplastics. It's both a chemical problem and a waste problem, let's say. It's combined. We in Sweden want to go ahead and show the way, and we do so in several environmental areas. When it comes to protecting the health of citizens and protecting against dangerous chemicals, I think it is extremely important that we ensure that we maintain a high level of protection in Sweden. It is important for health reasons, quite simply, but, as the honourable Member pointed out, we also have a responsibility to show the way to other countries which, at the moment, do not see this as their biggest problem but will come into such a situation. In this situation, it is also important to see how we work together with the industry in the development of products. I am convinced that the future of sustainable products that are safe for citizens and consumers are products that have been thought about in relation to toxicity and how products play in a sustainable society. They may be based on cycles and on what other production in society has already looked like. Above all, one thinks further: What happens when the product is no longer used for what it is sold for? What happens to the mobile phone when the consumer wants to replace it? It's all about thinking about the cycles all the time. This is very exciting, because in Sweden we have several companies that want to be at the forefront of their industry. For example, when it comes to microplastics, we see that the majority of the cosmetics, just wash off the preparations – toothpaste, shower gels and so on – are without microplastics. It is extremely welcome. We also have an industry organisation that actively works with its member organisations and companies to have a program to phase this out. That is something we must work with, and one way of supporting such a development is to be clear about being able to deliver to citizens products that are not dangerous to either health or the environment. Therefore, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's proposal is to introduce such a ban in Sweden, in the same spirit of time that the industry itself has worked in, i.e. after 2018. At the same time, it is very important – it is absolutely the intention of the government, and that is how we do the work – to work with the EU track. We have a common market. Of course, it will have even better results for the environment if more products across Europe are safe both from the point of view of the environment and from the point of view of health. That is why we are always working on a very clear and prioritised EU approach to chemicals. I will address a number of chemicals issues when I attend the meeting of Environment Ministers, which is being held this Friday.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think it is very good that the government continues to push ahead in the EU with regard to chemicals legislation. This is, of course, an ambition shared with both the former alliance government and governments for quite some time. Fewer special rules, and fewer national special rules, create better conditions for international trade. This growth is crucial for the dissemination of ideas and growth that benefit the environment through reduced emissions, better use of resources and so on. As far as discharges into the Baltic Sea are concerned, it is clear that cooperation is the way forward. The more countries stop rinsing microplastics in the sea, the better. The sea is something we share. I would also like to emphasise that it may be right to introduce national special rules. An example of this has been bisphenol A in some food packs that children come into contact with. I must also agree with the disappointment that the industry's substitution of microplastics in rinse-off cosmetic products does not go any faster, but it is nevertheless clear that the industry is doing a great deal. An ongoing EU investigation looks at whether the voluntary phasing-out is going so fast that EU rules may not even be necessary, and figures are being talked about in Sweden show that it is about being free of micrograins in cosmetic products that are washed off by 2017. I think it is clear that substitution is of great importance. That is something we should discuss more in other contexts and not just in the case of microplastics. However, a follow-up question that is quite natural is whether it is right to make a law in 2018 that risks becoming quite symbolic policy-making and perhaps does not seem so much, in case the industry is ready already by 2017. So the question is whether this is what makes a big difference right now or whether the industry will actually precede this. Perhaps we would be happy for that all regardless, but is it the right time and time to put resources on this particular thing? The problem of microplastics is not only in cosmetic products that are washed off, but in many other sources.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-35	Madam President, I would like I am of the opinion that we cannot work enough to ensure both human and environmental health from products containing unnecessarily dangerous materials. Microplastics, as I have described, have a potential to spread environmental toxins. Not least, we see it in the marine environment. It is therefore justified to look at all the proposals on how to move forward in order to safeguard the environment in this context. As I said on a referral to the government, the Agency's basis is, and we will consider and take a position on the concrete proposal. But it is reported in the evidence that as much as 40 per cent of this product type on the market in Sweden – toothpastes, shower gels and the like – still contains microplastics, despite the fact that there is a plethora of viable alternatives used by the majority of the market. I am quite convinced that it is difficult to remove that 40% from the voluntary work of the trade organisation alone, and that is because they are already saying that the whole of their industry has changed. The problem is that in the market it is not only the active member companies and organisations of the trade organisation that operate. I can rather see that they will have problems. If they have gone ahead and been good and phased out the microplastics from their products I want them to continue to feel that they have done a good job. I do not think that we are giving them the conditions for if we, as politicians, say: No, this is not such a big problem. There are other major environmental problems, so we allow companies that have products that are not environmentally sound to continue to compete with the environmentally sound products that have been developed – despite the fact that there are adequate alternatives and despite the fact that we have enormous evidence above all that microplastics are a concern in the marine environment but also that they can spread other heavy metals. So I do not think it is a wasted job. It is an important piece of work, and I also believe that it supports the companies at the forefront. Nor is it my view that the European Union is doing enough today because they are actually also in the process of introducing such a regulation – far from it. The signal I get from Brussels is that nothing is being done at all on the microplastic issue. Rather, it is the United States that has stepped forward, which has adopted a similar proposal for its market. I think that more countries in the European Union should do so, and I am convinced that more countries in the European Union will become aware of it if we in Sweden are clear and, together with our industry and our market, say that this is coming out – and set an end date.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-40	Madam President, I would like The USA is a very large country with a fairly large market and can therefore affect global value chains in a way that Sweden does not have the same opportunity to do. That is why Europe is our very best environmental organisation, which I believe the Government agrees with. In my closing speech, I would like to thank most of all for a good debate. Although these are rather small substances that are hard to see with the naked eye, they are important – for Sweden today, but perhaps above all for the EU in the future and for the countries that are about to make our journey. Therefore, I am also looking forward to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reporting its mission in June 2017, because what we have discussed today is a partial solution. It's a pretty small piece of a bigger problem when it comes to marine junk and so on. Then we can talk about the whole waste hierarchy as well. The lion's share, i.e. the really large emissions of micro-grains, actually comes from larger pieces of plastic that have been broken down into nature. Research in other Nordic countries has also shown this. I therefore believe that we will have reason to debate this again, probably in the summer of 2017, and I am convinced that it will be an important topic even then.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-43	Madam President, I would like I, too, thank you for a good debate. It is important to discuss what is a threat to our marine environment and our environment in general. We see that chemicals and various toxins accumulate from our human activities and products, in this case from plastics or precisely from the product group microplastics in washable shower and toothpaste products, which creates problems in the environment. We as politicians have a responsibility to make sure that we do, if I may quote the honourable Member, right from the start. And I think that we have the opportunity to do so if we move forward and are active in ensuring that our regulation in this area supports the companies and organisations that find the alternatives, because there are alternatives in dag to these very products. The broader perspective on how waste management of plastics is ensured and improved is also an important task. We see that this is very much connected. I am convinced that we will return to this important debate. I hope that my concern that the Moderates will say no to all kinds of national bans is unjustified. Even when the EU's door is closed to these issues, the only way to influence the EU is to make it clear that they are actually giving priority to chemicals legislation, just as the alliance relations were in the case of bisphenol A in food packaging for children. I hope that we can be strong and clear from Sweden in that it is the development that we want to see in Europe, a Europe that also takes account of the environment and human health.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-47	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson has asked me if I see any risks that the increased marginal taxes affect the extent to which people choose to apply for advanced education and if I see any risks that the increased marginal taxes affect employees' willingness to make a career and place their working life in Sweden. After the previous government's terms of office, we saw major deficits in state finances. Angelic investments and future investments have therefore had to be financed by, among other things, increased taxes. Higher taxes for people with relatively high incomes have both a good distribution profile and provide the necessary tax revenue. It is possible that taxes may affect the choice to continue studying or to work on the Swedish labour market, but it is my view that it is far from the only factor that affects these choices. There are a number of other factors that determine whether to invest in university studies. Therefore, it is also misleading to assess the policy on the basis of individual financing measures. Policy must be seen in its entirety. The high quality of education and training systems and the existence of training places are important for people to be able to participate in higher education. In the 2015 spring change budget, the government proposed increased funding for more places of study in universities and higher education institutions. I would also like to point out that the government is committed to improving the quality of higher education in the form of a greater focus on labour market links, internationalisation and close links between education and research. In terms of employment and unemployment, the 2016 budget bill makes an overall assessment of the impact of government policies. Overall, the policy is estimated to lead to higher sustainable employment and lower unemployment in the future.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-51	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. I have also heard that the Minister for Labour is now called Superminister. It would then be interesting if I could have got a great answer. However, the Minister for Labour replies that marginal tax increases could possibly affect the labour market and then refer to government deficits. But the question was whether the Minister sees any risks with the increased marginal taxes and to what extent they affect people to seek advanced education. There is research in this area, so the answer is undoubtedly: Yes. But it is possible that there is a lot of ideology in the matter, and then it does not help what research says. Another question is whether the Prime Minister asked the Minister for Labour: if we raise the tax on labour to the highest in the world, will it lead to more jobs? The answer is, of course, no, Madam President. Of course it won't lead to any more jobs. And the Prime Minister promised to ask all his ministers whether or not various proposals would lead to more jobs. Perhaps he forgot to ask that question to the Minister for Labour. If he had asked, I would like to know what the Minister for Labour would have answered if the highest taxes in the world would lead to more jobs. The first thing the Minister refers to is that the new government saw large deficits in the state finances. Is it right, then, to increase marginal taxes further, or is it better to review expenditure? When the Alliance took over in 2006, the public debt was 40% of GDP. When we handed it over to the new red-green government, it was 35 percent of the bnp. Now the debt will rise rapidly again. There are no restrictions on spending. As far as marginal taxes are concerned, you risk not getting that money, because people logically tend to do something other than work if you don't get paid well enough for the extra hour you work. The bottom line of this is that the Alliance handed over a well-equipped Sweden. There are other reports that show that education pays very badly in Sweden compared to other countries. This can give rise to serious problems in terms of labour market matching. People in Sweden do of course train, but do they train to the professions demanded by the market? The question, of course, is what happens in the future when our marginal taxes become 60%. We can compare with Germany, where training premiums work very well. There the match also works much better. Sweden has the worst return per year of education throughout the OECD, and that is not good. Question number two was whether the Minister for Labour sees a risk that the increased marginal taxes affect the willingness of workers to pursue a career in Sweden and to remain in the country. Since the education premiums in Sweden are low, there are significant risks of skills moving to other countries. I think we should work in a direction where education pays much, much more. Since the turn of the year, we have the world's highest marginal taxes. We're world champions of treasures. Previously, Aruba was the world champion, but now we are the world champions. One in three midwives is subject to increased marginal tax. One in three midwives and half of all police officers pay more than 50% tax on the margin. Is that what we're supposed to do?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-64	Madam President, I would like There is an unfortunate obsession of the Moderates with taxes. It is as if tax cuts are the only policy instrument to solve all problems. We saw how things went during the last parliamentary term. It reduced taxes and weakened government finances without solving the problems that were said to be solved with reduced taxes, such as unemployment. Of course, one of the most important prerequisites for a strong employment policy and for growth is that public finances are in order. That is why it was good that last year the government was able to halve government deficits in the face of the major challenges we are now facing. Although Erik Andersson is very concerned about the development, we note that employment is increasing significantly, that new business is increasing sharply, that unemployment is falling, that the education system is expanding and that we are investing in improved quality in the education system. We see no sign of a reduced willingness to educate. Of course, it is important that people have a desire to educate themselves. And it is also important that there is an education premium, that education pays off. But we see no sign that we would be in trouble in that respect. Erik Andersson takes Germany as an example, and I think that was interesting, because there are some, I think, that we can learn from Germany. They dare to do things that we have not dared and that have actually produced good results. For example, Germany has a system of study and career guidance available to all Germans, whether unemployed or not, which, as far as I understand, is of high quality and means a lot for people to go to the sectors where there is a good demand for labour. In Sweden, we have a weakly developed system of study and career guidance for those who are not pupils or unemployed. Here I think we can consider whether we have something to learn from Germany. I recently discussed with the Germans, who register all the young people at the employment service before they have finished school and education. One might wonder whether it is worthwhile to make such a great effort for many people who will get jobs anyway, but so do they in Germany. It has a very good effect in the form of low youth unemployment, but it is also due to several other things. There is reason to look at countries that are better than Sweden at steering and ensuring that people apply to those educations and industries where the labour market outlook is good.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-71	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour says the Moderates are obsessed with taxes. I would like to say that what the Social Democrats are fixated on taxes, because if taxes were not so high, we would not be here today. We have the highest taxes in the world. I think the Minister for Employment is more obsessed with subsidies than with work. It's a big worry. What the alliance government did was we lowered the tax for everyone. Everyone with a job got a whole new month's salary with the job tax deductions. Now the red-green government praises the fine growth figures in Sweden. But let us remember that your budget has only been in force for two months. You ran the alliance budget last year. As far as marginal taxes are concerned, we are not talking about the traditional group, the rich and the wealthy. You often say that it is the rich who have to pay marginal taxes, but here we are talking about midwives, police officers and other community carriers. Every time a social democrat or a left-wing party defends these high taxes, I want the midwife and the police to be kept in mind, for that is who we are talking about. Social Democrats tend to say that this is about those with millions of income, but that is not the case. In the major 1990 tax reform, one of the main objectives was to reduce the high marginal tax rates. In 1980, the marginal tax rate was up to 85 per cent. Astrid Lindgren even paid 102 per cent in tax. Clearly, people respond to financial incentives. Therefore, it should pay more to work than to go on benefits. Why doesn't it pay for all academics to be educated? There are academic programmes that do not pay at all compared to upper secondary education. On average, academic education pays only 16% more than upper secondary education. For many groups it is not worthwhile to educate themselves at all. These include important groups such as secondary school teachers, high school teachers, librarians, biologists and occupational therapists. Sadly, it's the worst for women. A woman with an academic education receives only 7% higher salary than the one with upper secondary education. This can be read about in Saco's study on the impact of academic studies on life wages. Madam President, I would like This is not a good development in a country that has previously had brilliant entrepreneurs and inventors like Ericsson, Asea and Laval. A major risk with the high marginal taxes is that you do not want to work extra. You don't take the extra hour. Working is simply not profitable. I believe that the estimated income from the marginal tax increase from 57 % to 60 % is a blow in the air. The government believes that this will receive 2.7 billion, but in the calculations you can only see how it has been and not how people actually act. It's a big flaw. I don't think you're going to get that 2.7 billion on increased marginal tax.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-83	Madam President, I would like The discussion on training premiums is interesting. We have long had a discussion with the Minister for Labour about what the Social Democrats call the mismatch in the labour market, that is, people choose academic subjects and programmes that may not be the most rational when it comes to being able to make a living after education. The discussion on education premiums places great emphasis on this, and here is an explanation of why people do not have a strong incentive to choose training courses that also provide jobs. It is about the fact that the difference between a job with perfectly decent pay but with high tax and large marginal effects and a job that only requires upper secondary skills is not enough. We also know that the salary ladder for highly skilled officials is much steeper, which means that the marginal effects kick in much harder. This, of course, has an effect and is the reasonable explanation model. But it would be interesting to hear from the Minister for Labour if there is another reasonable explanation model for why a large proportion of Swedish students choose courses that are not requested in the Swedish labour market. We see this to a much greater extent in Sweden than in many other countries, such as Germany. We have a school system that is completely free of charge no matter what you choose to study. An engineering education costs no more than another education. Nevertheless, we see a very little willingness to attend these courses. It is also a strong labour market situation. It is almost the workers' market, and you get good conditions, good working environment, etcetera with these trainings. Despite this, Swedish young people choose to a large extent not to attend these courses. Then we have to ask ourselves why. What economic effects and drivers hamper a rational choice? I think people are basically rational, smart and want their own best. But there may be political systems which, through taxes or subsidies, hamper a rational choice. The question is what this is. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister for Labour thinks is the reason. Is it only that they do not receive study and vocational guidance? It seems unreasonable for so many young people to have to receive study and career guidance in order to make their choice in higher education. People themselves must be able to assimilate information in order to choose a good future. If the marginal effects do not result in educational choices, what will result in educational choices? What makes people who have sufficient grades and basic criteria choose education that does not lead to work?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-91	Madam President, I would like Let me take the last question first. There is no simple explanation why people do not choose the education that leads to the highest future income. It is therefore not just a question of financial incentives, Mr Bali, but people also make their professional choices on the basis of other criteria. I believe, however, that we should influence people's choice of profession to a greater extent in order to achieve a better match. But it is quite clear that economic incentives alone are not responsible for this governance. When the old government ruled, unemployment increased. Now we have strong growth and falling unemployment. It is difficult to use it to make sure that the policies pursued are harmful to jobs. There are more people who come to the university and who come to the university. It is difficult to take it into account because the government's policies would make fewer people want to study further. Erik Andersson talks quite quietly about a major tax change that the government implemented in August. Then we removed the tax subsidy that previously applied to the employers' contribution for young people. We were then told here in Parliament's speaker's chair that youth unemployment would increase significantly if the contribution was restored, but the result has been the opposite. Youth unemployment is now falling faster than most people expected. With this, Madam President, I would like to say that tax policy obviously plays a role in incentives, but that is not the only thing that matters. Other things tend to mean even more. Tax revenues are intended to finance schools, healthcare, welfare, investment in jobs, climate-smart transition, infrastructure and housing. What tax revenue is used for affects the whole of employment policy. Erik Andersson is concerned that the government will not receive the revenue from the cats that has been forecasted, but I would like to say to him that there we will eventually have it. We will know what tax revenue it will lead to, and then we can compare. So far it seems to be going very well in the labour market. There's more people working, and more people work a lot. I believe that these are good conditions for the government not only to receive revenue but to even be higher than forecast. But as I said, we will find out.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-99	Madam President, I would like Sweden is an export-dependent nation, Madam Minister for Labour. We should be glad that exports are going well right now, but you cannot take it for granted because it is the Social Democratic policy that has reduced youth unemployment. After all, you have only been in government with your budget for two months, and we will see how many months it will be. If we look at the problem we see that Sweden has the highest taxes in the world. The Social Democrats are obsessed with squeezing the rich, they say, but who are the rich? Yes, these are the ones I mentioned earlier, namely the midwife and the police. They pay more than 50% tax on the margin, at least some of them. Half the cops get to do it. You can compare with excise duties, for example, where you want to control consumption in such a way that you have high excise duties on products that you think are harmful to health or the environment. The Social Democrats believe that it works well. This also applies, of course, to taxes on labour. Of course, if you have a high tax on labour, less work will be done. I still wonder whether the Prime Minister ever asked the Minister for Labour, now the Super-Minister, whether increased tax on labour leads to more jobs and what the Minister for Labour answered in that case.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-103	Madam President, I would like That is a little strangely reasoned by the Minister for Labour. I pointed out that there are economic reasons. There is a difference in going to a probably longer or tougher education to get financial returns later on for the time spent in education. When I say that the difference is too small, the Minister for Labour takes it for revenue because financial incentives do not work. But that's my whole point: there are no financial incentives. They are not enough to make the effort required at the university. It is no secret that the courses where we train a massive number and which lead to jobs only with upper secondary education skills are much easier. They are not as intense either in terms of time or in terms of difficulty as compared to education, which, for example, gives a much firmer situation in the labour market and slightly higher incomes. But the differences between them are too small – that's my point. It's how strange that the minister takes credit for the increased bnp growth and so on. The Minister's budget has only been active for 60 days. If the Minister has come up with a way to raise the bnp and employment so strongly with only a little letter of regulation, she must reveal it here and now. I think we've got a financial prize going on here. There is no other reasonable explanation of the Minister's complacency on this matter.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-107	Madam President, I would like Economic growth is, of course, due to many different things, but to take such a strong development as we now have in the labour market into revenue because things are going badly there I think is actually a bit far-fetched. The government has been working on youth unemployment from day one. From August this year, all the major economic changes relating to youth unemployment apply, both to the investments and to the funding we make by removing the tax subsidy in the form of a reduction in employers' contributions for young people. I would like to remind the Moderates that it was predicted that the reduction would lead to a disaster in terms of youth unemployment. So the result has now been the opposite. Whether this depends solely on government policy or not, I leave it unsaid, but the reduction has not led to the disaster of youth unemployment that the Moderates painted when our budget came into effect. To Erik Andersson : Based on my role, of course, I am involved in most discussions in the government regarding the jobs. The overall assessment and policies we implement for jobs are strong.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-111	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me whether I do not believe that experienced labour is needed to meet the demographic challenge and how I believe that the special wage tax for older people should help senior and more experienced workers who want to work longer. Of course, senior and experienced workers are needed. OECD statistics also show that Sweden is among the countries with the highest employment rates in the 55-64 age group. Sweden has a good starting point, but at the same time the government believes that demographic development poses major challenges for the working life of the future. In his interpellation, Christian Holm Barenfeld refers to Elisabeth Svantesson's written question, which I answered on 19 January this year. I would therefore like to repeat parts of my answer. When the government took office in 2014, we inherited a worrying situation with unemployment that has stuck to a high level. To increase employment and permanently reduce unemployment, the government has therefore proposed in the 2016 budget proposal major future investments in housing, climate change and infrastructure, an active business policy for more and growing companies, and investment in skills and matching to equip people to take the jobs that are emerging. The 2015 Spring Bill and the 2016 Budget Bill contain investments for jobs amounting to just over SEK 14 billion for 2016. Overall, the measures proposed in the budget proposal are assessed as contributing to lower unemployment and higher employment in the coming years. Older people in working life are an important resource that should be exploited. We also see a steady increase in the employment rate for people over the age of 55. Nevertheless, I note that in many professions the effective retirement age is less than 65 years. This is not due to the lack of financial incentives to work longer, but also to the premature wear-out of workers. If people are to be able to work a whole working life, better working environment conditions are needed in mentally and physically difficult jobs. Work environment is therefore a focus area for the government. On 1 February, the Government submitted its new strategy for health and safety at work to the Riksdag. The strategy is based on the challenges and opportunities of modern working life and points out a direction for work over the next five years. In addition, the Government has increased resources in the area of health and safety at work by SEK 100 million per year during its term of office. Within the framework of increased resources, the Government raises the level of ambition in health and safety at work policy through this strategy on health and safety at work, which is designed around three priority areas: zero vision against fatal accidents and prevention of accidents at work, sustainable working life and psychosocial work environment. In addition, a broad review of the pension system has been ongoing for some years in the context of the work of the Pensions Group. The long-term major issue is the longer working life to secure adequate pensions, the finances of the pension system and ultimately the welfare. This work will continue for a long time with the overall aim of achieving more hours worked throughout life.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-119	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson for the answer to my interpellation. I would also like to welcome the Minister in her new supplementary superministerial role with the right of initiative in all policy areas. I think it's good that someone is given the right of initiative in the government. We need more initiatives for more jobs. There is no doubt about that. Jobs must be increased, unemployment must be reduced and employment increased. Unfortunately, the employment rate in the Labour Market Committee in Parliament is far too low. The meetings are few, and many of the meetings are scheduled to be cancelled later. It is, of course, based on the fact that there are few proposals and other proposals presented by the government. The government simply does not deliver in the labour market, for example. Madam President, I would like We need to become more people who work in Sweden, and more people need to work further up the age range. It is therefore important that we create conditions and incentives for more people to want to stay in the labour market for longer. This will be particularly important later when retirements are expected to increase. I asked my interpellation because I am concerned that government policy will have the opposite effect. After all, the government has introduced a special wage tax for people over the age of 65 who become a penalty tax on the elderly who choose to work. Ylva Johansson recently gave a reply to my colleague Elisabeth Svantesson saying that the government itself makes the assessment that the special wage tax for older people will have an actual effect on the employment of older people and the number of hours worked, and then a negative one. It becomes a little incomprehensible when, in one sense, the Minister for Labour believes that it is important to ensure that more older people choose to remain in the labour market and in the next, defend that they make it less attractive to work. People simply keep less of what they earn. This does not make them more motivated to remain in the labour market and work longer. It does not mean that they get more in their wallets and can consume more. Madam President, I would like I would like to reverse what the Minister said in an earlier speech here today. There is a fi nancing of the Social Democrats at taxes. No matter what you're supposed to do, the taxes are going up. The higher the tax, the better the Social Democrats. The result, however, is that the person who works gets less in his wallet. In Ylva Johansson's answer, she talks more about housing, climate change, infrastructure and pensions than about the question I asked myself. I can understand that. It cannot be easy to defend and explain why you launch a proposal that you are aware of will have a negative impact on the work supply of older people.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-127	Madam President, I would like I was a little surprised by the answer given by the Minister for Labour to Christian Barenfeld on the issue of the special wage tax for the elderly. There is no answer to why the tax was important and why the government introduced it. There is one sentence that s owns: Of course there is a need for senior and experienced labour. It is something you say with lip service, but it is not something you show in real politics. Why should people pay 6.15 percent extra tax when they are 65 years of age? It's very strange. That policy cannot be reconciled. Why should tax rates be divided at all when it comes to age? In the world of Social Democrats, it has always been the case that the size of income has been taxed differently. But now you even go inside and start looking at people's age for why they should pay different taxes. If you had lowered the tax, I'd understand that. You really want seniors and experienced labor. The whole business community is crying out for people to stay in important positions. We have difficulty with nurses, engineers and other well-trained and experienced people for whom there is no substitute. There are no workers waiting to get those jobs. One would like to encourage more people to stay longer. But the government doesn't. It is therefore an interesting question: Why do you want a tax on older people? At the same time they went out and hit the big drum in the election movement and said that the unfair taxes would now finally be corrected for all pensioners. Isn't that talking to a split tongue? Those who work will pay more in taxes. Anyone who doesn't work would get 50 more wallets. I think it's very false. It does not give much money either. It is estimated that it would amount to 1.77 billion, i.e. less than 2 billion. We'll see what it gives. We don't know how many people choose to go home instead of working. The answer says a lot about what the government does for good and, of course, what the old government did not do. But if you say that there is a need for senior and experienced labour, you should say: It was good that the Alliance government reduced the tax for those who worked after the retirement age. But I don't read that anywhere. That's why I reacted. You raise taxes on most things. It's a tax on savings. It's a tax on labor. It's an increase in employer's fees. It's a tax on young people. This government has a goal, and it is a total fixation on increased taxes. Nevertheless, the Minister of this House always says that the Moderates are obsessed with increased taxes. It's just the opposite. The only thing the government really does with regard to its electoral promises is to raise taxes in different ways.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-134	Madam President, I would like I wonder a little why Ch ristian Holm Barenfeld and Katar ina Brännström are so upset. When I listen to the speeches, I think I understand that it is because they have misunderstood the whole question. It is not the case that the government has introduced a special wage tax. It was introduced in 1991 in the major tax reform that was carried out. It was then that something called special payroll tax was introduced. What the government has done is that we have created uniformity in the system, as has been the case in the past. But the special wage tax was introduced in 1991. Both Ch ristian Holm Barenfeld and Katar ina Brännström say that government policy would lead to people over 65 being allowed to keep less of what they earn, or that older people would pay higher taxes than other groups. It's completely wrong. Older people have a lower tax than younger ones. It is an increased tax credit for those over the age of 65. This means that they keep more and pay less tax after 65 years than they do before. There the interpelliers and the debaters are completely wrong about politics. What we are seeing right now is that many of those who are about to retire or who have already retired are attracted back to work because the demand for labour is very high and we have a shortage in very many professions. We now see at school, for example, retired teachers coming back to work, and that is welcome. They also pay lower taxes than those who are younger and, for example, work at school or in other professions. That is how the tax system is designed today. Madam President, I would like When you hear Katarina Brännström say that 1 1⁄2 billion in tax revenue is not that much you might understand how things could get so bad with the big deficits in the state finances. Tax revenues are needed to finance investment and welfare. They need to be balanced in a reasonable way so that we also have strong developments in the labour market. We do right now.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-139	Madam President, I would like I think it is 1.77 billion that the government expects to get into the measure of the special wage tax for the elderly. If you take out almost 2 billion more from a group of people – almost 1.8 billion – it is clear that this makes it less attractive. If we make it more expensive to hire, it becomes less attractive to work. Whether it is at the level of the employer or at the level of the individual, it is obviously not good. There has been a lot of discussion about the job tax deduction and much criticism of it on the part of the government, but with that we ensured that the worker kept more money in his wallet while making it cheaper to hire. This is what the government is now restoring. It makes it less attractive to hire a person aged 65 or over. This is what the government does in a number of areas, and it really doesn't matter whether you're young or old. If you are young, it becomes more expensive and you get worse conditions, you are middle-aged and have trained and managed to get a little higher income, you get less money left in your wallet and you are going to fire tax and if you have turned 65 you are obviously not as attractive in the labour market either. On the other hand, one should possibly be able to get a little more if one chooses not to work. That's a strange attitude from a labour minister. I hope that we will see to some extent more proposals for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, so that it too can start working. I also hope that the proposals made to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs with regard to work will also deal with how to increase the number of jobs and how to get more people into work. The answer I have received from the Minister for Labour is very different from what I asked. I cannot continue to see how this in any way creates more jobs for the elderly, and I still want answers to that, because that was actually my question. Then the government and the minister can conclude that it is reasonable to raise one or the other tax because you want the money, but then it is for that reason you do so and then you should say that you are prepared that fewer older people get a job when they are 65 years old and not that it creates more jobs. It's more honest.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-146	Madam President, I would like It is a little strange to listen to the Minister for Employment, who in this House is trying to master me at least, I feel as if, talking about the introduction of special wage taxes back in 1991. I have now been amused to go into the government's own website and read what it says about the budget. I can read in front of it:Särs kild wage tax is introduced on benefits for work to persons who at the beginning of the year have reached the age of 65 and income from active economic activity for persons who at the beginning of the year have reached the age of 65. It is also said that the tax is set at 6.15%. This was also included in the 2015 budget proposal, but it never applied. So this is a new tax that has been introduced and nothing that has been around all along. I myself belong to the group that has turned 65, so I am one of those that we are talking about in this debate. I know that the double tax deduction introduced by the Alliance Government to encourage older people to remain in the labour market is something that I can at least get some profit from. You have pulled down into the upper range, so quite as much as I would have if we had an alliance government, I do not get, but I still get lower taxes. But you have therefore introduced a special wage tax for the elderly, and one can still ask why. What will this lead to? If you read on on on the website you can see that it is only about reduced ceilings, abolished services in the RUT deduction, reduced subsidy rate in the RUT, abolished reductions in social security contributions for young people – everything here is about taxes, and then you have a goal with it. What is the objective of raising taxes on older people who want to continue working? That answer has not yet been given here.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-150	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld tries to lead in evidence, although I don't really know how he gets it, that it creates more jobs that those who have turned 65 years of age would have a lower payroll tax. I would therefore like to ask Christian Barenfeld whether he can account for the way in which it creates more jobs. What evidence is there for that? How do there suddenly become more jobs in a workplace, for example at Posten, because of that? Christian Holm Barenfeld must be able to account for it. What we have seen is that unemployment is falling quite sharply among young people now, despite the fact that we have changed employers' contributions for young people. Christian Holm Barenfeld must be clear about this. To Katarina Brännström and Christian Holm Barenfeld I would like to ask the question: Do you think the Swedish model is good? Do you like it and stand behind it? If so, can you justify how you view the Swedish model?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-154	Madam President, I would like The special wage tax was created in the 1991 tax settlement which resulted in a new tax system. It was a construction that changed much of the entire tax system and made a special wage tax for older people to compensate for the pension system. It took the old government away, creating a lack of uniformity in the tax system that we are now restoring. Labour market developments are good for older workers. The employment rate is increasing for this group. Madam President, I would like Taxes exist to finance important activities such as welfare, education and investment. If you cut taxes, there'll be less tax revenue. This can be done if you do not think it is so important or do not believe that there is a link between job growth and investment, education and welfare. The government sees that connection and therefore has a policy of order in public finances and of ensuring that we can make the necessary investments. I know that our view of it is different from that of the Moderates. Madam President, I would like I believe that we can further increase the employment rate in the group over 55 years of age and over 65 years of age. Two important things need to be done. One is investment in the working environment. The government has invested both money and put forward a new strategy for health and safety at work, which I believe is currently being dealt with in the Committee on Employment. There is also a study that has suggested that the age when you have the right to remain in the workplace should be raised from 67 to 69 years. That question is currently being addressed in the Pensions Group. I think it is an important issue to take into account. The second point is that we need to overcome sick leave, which has increased dramatically since 2010. This is a serious development, and unfortunately we see that it is not only older but also younger people who are on sick leave and remain on sick leave for a long time. Ill health, whether it's due to work environment-related things or not, is a major risk factor when it comes to not being able to manage and work as long as you want. There are major challenges here, and the government has major challenges ahead.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-159	Madam President, I would like Eva-Lena Jansson came into this debate and wondered how we create more jobs for the elderly and how we create more jobs overall. By lowering taxes on older people or by not raising them and making it more expensive to hire older people, the jobs will obviously not automatically increase, but require a government to do more things. You have to do certain parts that are job creation, but we also saw that far too few older people continued to work. Many wanted to work, but the incentives were not enough. Then we made sure that it became more profitable to remain in the labour market. In the same way, we saw that there were high thresholds in the labour market for those who were young or newcomers to Sweden. That's why we lowered the thresholds there. They have now been raised. If you raise taxes on Monday, it is of course not that fewer people work on Tuesday, but it is done in the long term. Ylva Johansson says it's all right now. It's a high tail, I'll tell you what. We'll get into that later. If you lower the tax, you get less money, it's said. Nor is it evidence-based. What we need is more people working and more people paying taxes. Otherwise, the wet dream of a true Social Democrat would be 100% tax, if it were the case that we could raise more money and distribute more. Then you can decide completely what it should look like. I do not think that would be a good solution. However, if you have more focus on how to increase the contributions for those who do not work than on how to ensure that those who do not work get into work, we probably need to increase the tax rate in order to finance all the benefits in the short term. However, I do not think that is a good way. Thank you for the debate.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-166	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld could not answer how there will be more jobs through other tax rates for the elderly. He claimed that it was job creation, but could not describe where it is evidence-based that there will be more jobs of reduced tax. You should be able to account for that. How do more jobs come about by lowering taxes for an individual? Of course, there are no such evidence - based facts, and that is why he did not respond. It is also interesting, Madam President, that Christian Holm Barenfeld did not want to comment on the Swedish model. It is linked to wages, taxes and the whole system we have in Sweden when it comes to financing the common welfare but also to ensuring that people who have turned 65 and are pensioners have a decent life whether they work or not. As I said, it is interesting that the moderate Member of Parliament did not want to answer the question about the Swedish model.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-168	Madam President, I would like There will probably always be a fundamental contradiction between the government and the Moderates in terms of tax cuts and cuts, on the one hand, and investment and jobs, on the other. I would like to thank you for the debate, and I think there are issues where we can meet. This applies, for example, to the discussion about how long you will be allowed to stay in the workplace and whether it will be raised from the current 67 years. Discussions are taking place in the Pensions Group, where both the government parties and the Moderates are present. Other questions are how to overcome the increased ill health and sick leave and the need to strengthen work environment work. I think there are areas where we can have a good exchange of each other.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-170	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me what I mean by the fact that the government is now solving youth unemployment, what concrete measures the government has taken to solve youth unemployment and how many jobs and actions have led to. Furthermore, Mr Bali has asked me what measures I intend to take to make it easier for young people furthest from the labour market to get into work. I reply to the interpellations in a context. I would like to begin by thanking Elisabeth Svantesson and Hanif Bali for the opportunity to report on the positive developments we have in young people's employment and what further concrete measures the government is taking to solve youth unemployment. Measuring the number of young people enrolled in the Employment Service is obviously central, but it is important to remember that this is not the official measure of youth unemployment in the country. Unemployment among young people aged 15 to 24 was 19.1 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2015. This is a decrease of 3.1 percentage points compared to the corresponding quarter of 2014. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the number of unemployed young people was 123,000, which is an annual decrease of 24,000 persons. Nearly half of unemployed young people are full-time students looking for work, including extra work in the evenings, weekends and holidays. In fact, unemployment among young people has now reached its lowest level in eight years. In addition, the youth employment rate has reached its highest level since 2001. Of course, we're not happy. No young person should begin their adult life in long-term unemployment. For several years now, all bourgeois parties have argued that the government's restoration of the social security contribution for young people, a cost of approximately SEK 20 billion per year, would drive up youth unemployment strongly. Instead, we see that unemployment among young people is falling, while the number of young people enrolled in the Employment Service is decreasing. Some of the EUR 20 billion per year spent by the old government to subsidise large enterprises with a large number of young people employed can instead be used by the government for those young and adults who are furthest away from the labour market and who, among other things, need action in the form of training. The number of young people enrolled in the job guarantee for young people is decreasing. In 2014, the number of participants in the job guarantee for young people decreased from 38,000 to 33,000 on average per month, and in 2015 the number decreased to 27 000 participants on average per month, a decrease of 18% compared to 2014. Also in the Job and Development Guarantee, the number of young people enrolled has decreased – from 12,000 on average per month in 2014 to 10 800 on average per month in 2015. Furthermore, the number of long-term unemployed young people is also falling sharply and is now at its lowest level since before the 2008 financial crisis. According to the Labour Force Survey of Statistics Finland, AKU, a person is defined as long-term unemployed after 27 weeks of unemployment. The number of long-term unemployed aged 15 to 24 was 12,000 in the fourth quarter of 2015. This is a decrease of 7,000 people compared to the corresponding quarter of 2014. The increase in the number of young people in the previous phase 3 of the employment and development guarantee shows that the previous government's policies with deadlines and detailed management of labour market policies have not worked. It is extremely important that these people are now being helped to get to work and that the influx into long-term unemployment is stopped. The government has, among other things, removed the previous government's operating ban and made it possible to offer support to young people from their first enrollment date. The Government considers it important that the Public Employment Service can offer unemployed people contributions based on each individual's needs and conditions, in order to increase the outflow to work or studies. It is extremely clear from unemployment statistics that it is primarily young people who lack full upper secondary education who continue to have difficulties in the labour market. In order to tackle youth unemployment and long-term youth unemployment, the government has, among other things, put in place training contracts. So far, relatively few training contracts have been decided, but they are growing rapidly. The Government has established the Delegation for Young People to Work, Dua, which is tasked with promoting labour market policies to combat youth unemployment, to promote cooperation between governments and municipalities, and to develop new forms of cooperation. This is done by promoting local agreements on efforts to reduce youth unemployment between municipalities and the Employment Service. The local agreements contain measurable objectives, an action plan to achieve the objectives and also a survey of which young people in the municipality are neither working nor studying. At present, 286 of the country's 290 municipalities have drawn up an agreement with local employment services. The fact that so many municipalities have chosen to reach an agreement is an important prerequisite for reducing youth unemployment seriously, including by ensuring that young people complete their upper secondary education and get a real foothold in the labour market.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-182	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. It works well in many ways in the Swedish economy and in the Swedish labour market. We're in a recession. This means that unemployment is falling and that more people, especially those close to the labour market, are now coming into work. I am delighted about this, together with the Minister for Labour. That's very good. The background to the interpellation is something that the Minister for Labour said in the Saturday interview a few weeks ago: we are now in the process of solving youth unemployment. When the Minister for Labour thinks that she and the government are now solving it, it naturally asks a lot of questions. I also think that the statement is quite remarkable. It's just that a lot of people are doing well in a business cycle. But it is also the case that many find it difficult to enter the labour market. One question that I ask myself and that I still do not think I have received an answer to is: What in government policy or in Ylva Johansson's toolbox is it that has made you think that you are in the process of solving youth unemployment? Is it the 59 trainee jobs that have now had the effect of reducing unemployment? Or what am I missing? That is something that concerns me in the statement by the Minister for Employment. Many are doing well, but at the same time many are not doing well, despite the fact that we are finally in a better economy. In fact, 2 000 more are now registered at Arbetsförmedlingen. In fact, there are 50% more young people today in phase 3 compared to the time when the Minister for Labour took office. I hear that the Minister for Labour blames the previous government for the fact that there are more young people in phase 3 during the new government's time. I believe, Madam President, that all of us in this House should be humbled by the fact that there are young people who find it very difficult to get back into the labour market. Firstly, I do not understand and do not see what is in government policy, in the government's toolbox, which has reduced youth unemployment in general. It's a good business cycle, but what are the tools you've used besides the 59 trainee jobs that have accomplished this? Secondly, the fact is that more people are in the long term. In fact, Phase 3 is increasing for young people precisely with the new government. Does this concern the Minister for Labour, or does the Minister for Labour seriously believe that this government is now about to solve youth unemployment?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-190	Madam President, I would like What we are looking at in the labour market is what has been warned for quite some time, but at an increasingly accelerating rate, namely that those close to the labour market have access to jobs while those who are far from the labour market are getting tougher. In other interpellation responses, the Minister for Labour talked about her liberalisation of the Public Employment Service and said that it is her letter of regulation to the Public Employment Service that has changed the functioning of the Public Employment Service and thus contributed to a better functioning labour market. Then it will be interesting to look at those who are in Arbetsförmedlingen's care. Then you can see that things have not improved for them. Where we see job growth taking place and where young people end up in work, the main concerns are those young people who are not included in programmes. If we look at the programmes, Madam President, we see an increase especially in the case of those who are far from the labour market. One should rightly be concerned about the Minister: now we have solved this. Now those who were reasonably close to the labour market have got jobs because of our GDP growth, which many point to are not based on as sustainable foundations as we think, namely to a large extent borrowed money, a shark-papped currency and public consumption due to the refugee wave. Then comes the question: What is the Minister doing to help the long-term unemployed young people with a weak educational background and other factors get closer to the labour market? If we look at the outcome there, it doesn't look good at all. If we look at the outcome there, we see no indication that the Minister for Labour is about to solve youth unemployment, especially with regard to the rather tough group that is perhaps two years away from the labour market. If we look at, for example, phase 3, which you promised to abolish, we see an increase. We see an increase in the number of young people in phase 3. It's a group where it doesn't work out automatically with a good economy – we know that. As the Minister himself has pointed out, the causes of their unemployment are different from economic activity. The reason for their unemployment is, for example, lack of work experience, difficulty in getting an anchor in the labour market, lack of motivation or willingness to study, and plenty of such factors. As far as that group is concerned, we cannot see that what the Minister for Labour is doing is a success. New projects have been launched with new names, initiatives and agendas and so on. But the outcome of this cannot stand here and say that the Minister for Labour is positive. At most, the Minister for Labour can say: We do not know. But, as a result, the labour market is not going to be able to say: we have solved this; this is going to work out. The outcome we are now seeing in the group that has benefited from these reforms in the Public Employment Service and so on is too small. Those who have benefited most from the economic upturn that has occurred are those young people who are more likely to get summer jobs, extra jobs and full-time jobs, young people who have a fairly good educational background.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-198	Madam President, I would like Of course, youth unemployment is not solved. But we are in the process of solving it and will solve it. It's my mission. Even though there are still major challenges, I still feel quite confident that I will be able to do this. Why would I dare say that? Because young people who are not affected in principle by economic recovery are those who have disabilities, those who may have ill health or social problems or combinations of these. It is the young people who, for various reasons, do not have full upper secondary education, sometimes even shorter. They are affected relatively little when things are going well in the labour market. They often remain in unemployment. Let me make a correction. The figures for those enrolled in the Employment Service as long-term unemployed young people vary by approximately 10 000 depending on the month chosen to measure. Therefore, the differences are quite large. Compared to a given month last year with a month this year or from 2014 to 2015, it will be seen that every month is a decrease. There are seasonal variations that exceed the monthly reductions. However, progress is also positive in the long-term admission of the Public Employment Service, although much more needs to be done. Why do I still dare to be optimistic? Well, what we have seen from the past – and which is also a strong impression from dialogue with the Employment Service, municipalities and young people themselves – is that this group of young people who are in difficulty is at risk of clashing between different stakeholders. No one really wants to take action, but they try to ball both individuals and costs between themselves or put people into short-term action that will not actually help, but which is more about administering youth unemployment to those who are away from the labour market. This is what I got a strong impression of when I was out in dialogue with Sweden's municipalities and Arbetsförmedlingen before launching our programmes. That is why I have taken the time to ensure that local agreements are made and that every young person between 16 and 25 who does not work or study should be surveyed. You're supposed to have them. This means that enrollment at Arbetsförmedlingen will increase, but that's good, because that's the point. Now we have settled between ourselves who will do what and how to cooperate. It is a good condition for us to avoid what we have so a little too much of before: that we balls among ourselves in order to be able to meet the statistics or get away with certain costs. Let's put our responsibilities together. I am very pleased that the municipalities have responded so positively to this. An important instrument that I am contributing to labour market policy is what we call educational contracts, which are about ensuring that a young person comes through high school and provides different flexible conditions for achieving this and having combinations of education and work. I also believe, Madam President, that a very important part is about young people with disabilities. Here I have been very clear. A Youth Guarantee that the government promises to introduce, a 90-day guarantee, should apply to all young people, not just young people without disabilities. That, of course, is a challenge. But I see that it is absolutely necessary for once to look after all young people and not put young people with disabilities or ill health in a particular group that should come second. I am very pleased, Madam President, that the strong turnout that I have received from the Municipality of Sweden has come regardless of the political colour of the municipal government. There has been a genuine willingness to tackle the problem jointly with young people who are not helped by the economic upturn.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-207	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for further answers. Let me begin by repeating what I said earlier: I am pleased that many young people are now coming to work even faster. When the economic cycle turns, it is also natural. But it still worries me that so many young people are far away. These very young people find it difficult to get in now – in a boom. If they are not equipped here and now, of course, they will find it even harder to get in when the economic cycle turns. I think the remarkable thing I heard during the Saturday interview strengthened just now is that the Minister for Labour said: I will solve this. I hope, of course, that the Minister for Labour is right and that we shall not have unemployment among young people. However, when I look at the tools available to the Minister for Employment and the Government, I can only note that the 59 trainee jobs that have so far emerged from the government's toolbox have hardly solved youth unemployment. What we have seen so far is a good economy, and we hope that it will continue for a long time. But more will be needed, and tools will be needed. We have talked about education many times, both Ylva Johansson and I. I think it is crucial and important; there we do not differ to any great extent. But new ways to work will also be needed – work throughout the Swedish labour market. Young people should have a chance to prove their worth and learn their job at work. We have proposed a first-job contract as a new form of employment in LAS. It can be used by all employers, small and large. You can have a maximum of 40% educational content and at least 25%. Young people get a chance to learn the job at work and a chance to come out and show what they're made of. It is an example of a concrete tool and a new form that all employers can use. We also want to simplify wage subsidies so that there is only one. We replace nine and make them one so that more employers can use just that. I'll get back to my basic question. I think it is relevant and important when it comes to a person in the government. What is it in Ylva Johansson's toolbox that has made you feel from the government that you are in the process of solving youth unemployment? I see a good business cycle, and I'm happy about that. I see more young people coming to work. But I also see that many are far outside and that they will need more ways back. They will need more ways into work, and here the government lacks many answers. Now they map together with the municipalities. That could be good. But it is the jobs that will be required for young people to have a chance to become self-sufficient and enter a work community. My question therefore remains: are the 59 trainee jobs the tools? Or is it the discussions with the municipalities that have made unemployment more or less resolved, according to the government?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-215	Madam President, I would like The remarkable thing about government and Ylva Johansson's rhetoric is that they describe a cyclical upturn that largely originates from the Swedish krona, exports and the refugee wave as proof that the government's policy works. The government's budget, which has been in force for about 60 days, would thus be the source of the employment growth and unemployment reduction among young people. That, of course, is not an accurate description. Ylva Johansson himself said that there are other factors. But if there are other factors, why do the government and the minister express themselves as those who have created the factors? We know that's not the case. If Ylva Johansson had managed to reduce unemployment this much, with only a few changes to regulatory letters and talks with municipalities, it would be, as I have said in other debates, reason for Nobel Prizes in Economics. It would be amazing if that were the case. But we know it's not like that. The question then is not about which external factors influence the increase in employment and how to sit and rejoice in it. Instead, we have to ask ourselves what policy can do to strengthen this development. Then Ylva Johansson, with some kind of intellectual integrity, cannot stand and claim that it is she who has solved the problem of youth unemployment. The proposals put forward by Ylva Johansson point to many independent actors who are either not sufficient or sometimes even destructive. If you look at the proposals on which you went to elections, such as the 90-day guarantee, you can see that it seems to be forgotten, dropped or at least hidden. If you look at the other proposals, such as the trainee jobs, you can see that what has been said before is an incredibly small number. Of the practical reforms that have been proposed, there are almost none, in fact, that have an effect or that have produced any measurable effect. Even so, Ylva Johansson says that it is she who is going to solve this. It cannot be claimed with any intellectual honesty that neither announced reforms nor the reforms that have been proposed affect employment to the extent that Ylva Johansson wants to be created for. It's as simple as that. In any case, I am pleased that Ylva Johansson sees the group of unemployed young people who are not affected by the economic cycle and who are not affected by the government's reforms. Then of course the question is: What do you want to do for them, Ylva Johansson? What happens to the young people who get stuck in phase 3 and so on? What are the government's ambitions for them? By how much will you get the figure down? I have pointed out in the past that it is reasonable that we can evaluate the Government's proposals and the outcome of its reforms. It is reasonable, then, for us to know how much your proposals will reduce the proportion of youth unemployment related to the long-term unemployed. None of the proposals you have in your budget and in your government decisions affects unemployment to such an extent that it is even significant, and much less something for the government to get credit for.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-221	Madam President, I would like It is almost astounding how moderates can go from being weary to becoming gloomy. It has to be said that listening to the debate is fascinating. With regard to investment in people who are far from the labour market, I welcome the fact that both Mr Bali and Elisabeth Svantesson are now seeing the long-term unemployed young people. They have existed for a long time, and in the past they have only been referred to phase 3 and nothing beyond that. I think it is important and good that this government has much higher ambitions. It is good that we have a minister who, moreover, really wants and hopes to be able to combat youth unemployment and to resolve issues instead of just saying: that is what the market should do! That's gonna have to be reduced taxes! In this society it is important to stick together, and then it is also important to make educational efforts for those who have previously failed in their education. It is part of the government's budget, which we have adopted here in Parliament. Unfortunately, the moderate group has not seen the need for training in the same way. There are investments in folk high school. Last Friday I visited Malmö, a social democraticly governed municipality. There you have something that you call comfort assistants in the municipality. It is a collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipality where people with disabilities can work and get an income. It is a good activity for several people who have previously been far from the labour market. Trivsel assistants are not only in Malmö. They are located in Örebro, Norrköping and several other municipalities. It is a way of dealing with things together, as Mr Bali mentioned, in the public sphere. There are tasks to be done, and these people do not have to be at home without anything to do. They can get a salary, pay taxes, and feel meaningful and involved. In addition, they contribute to a golden edge for pensioners. There are many things that can be done. I think it is important that the municipalities and the Employment Service should finally work together. Hanif Bali thought it was strange, but I have been working on the issues at municipal level and can say that every worker and municipal official I have met has said that they can finally cooperate. That's good. I have a couple of questions for Hanif Bali and Elisabeth Svantesson. How do you see the Swedish model? Do you think it's good? Are you behind the Swedish model? It is important to clarify how you view the Swedish model based on the proposals made by the Moderates. Then you have to be clear about whether you are behind the Swedish model or not. My opinion is clear. The Swedish model has served Sweden well. It is good for cohesion, good for greater equality and good for greater equality. Therefore, it is also relevant that the Moderates answer the question. Are you behind the Swedish model?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-230	Madam President, I would like It is perhaps not surprising that Elisabeth Svantesson and I have different views of confidence in social democratic labour market policies or confidence in tax cuts in response to the challenges of the labour market. The concrete proposals that Elisabeth Svantesson raises here, combinations of education and employment in new forms for young people, are being implemented. That's good. We need more of that. It's a shame you didn't do more of it when you had the chance to be in a government position. It is serious that the Moderates are putting forward proposals which, in order to solve problems in the labour market, also challenge the very basis for how the Swedish labour market is governed, i.e. whether the parties should agree or whether new ways of controlling the labour market should be legislated. Should the Swedish model be preserved or not? I share Elisabeth Svantesson's view that wage subsidies need to be simplified. It was a shame she didn't do it when she had the chance as a minister. I'll do it. We need fewer and simpler pay support. More jobs are needed, and that is exactly what is happening right now. The number of jobs is growing strongly. There is a strong start-up and large investments are made both in public and private terms. That's good. It won't solve all the problems, but it will help. New labour market policies are being addressed here and how many are participating in them. I don't have any problems with them, but I will always take the necessary measures to solve the problems of youth unemployment in real life. We are well on our way, but there is still a great deal to be done with regard to those who are furthest from the labour market. I feel confident that we can manage them with the good collaborations that are now established. Nevertheless, I cannot help thinking about saying that it cannot be the government's merit that youth unemployment should fall. I'm not asking you to say that either. What if there had been an opposite development, if it had been as the Moderates have said, that if the tax subsidy on the working life of young people were restored, youth unemployment would increase dramatically. You said so in Parliament's pulpit and throughout the electoral movement. That's not what happened. The development was the opposite. Youth unemployment is falling. I wonder how it would have sounded from the Moderates if it had not been so. Then, of course, it would have been the government's responsibility in your eyes. Reality is always the responsibility of the government. Labour market policy measures are, of course, important, but that will never be the main line for managing job growth and solving unemployment. It is about the whole of politics. It is a policy that creates good conditions for economic growth. This is a policy that creates good conditions for the export industry. It is a policy that creates more training places, good conditions for research and innovation. These are policies that invest resources on more employees in care for the elderly and more employees in schools. It is about investments in maintenance and residential building. It is the whole of the policy that produces results, but labour market policy also plays a role. When it comes to young people who are furthest from the labour market, it is not least important to do what Elisabeth Svantesson called for, namely to do here and now so that they can pass upper secondary school.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-239	Madam President, I would like Let me sum up the debate. I note that the Minister for Employment is quite satisfied. Although the number of young people in the employment phase is 50% higher now than when the Minister for Labour took office, she is satisfied. She chooses to place responsibility on another government, but now it is the Minister for Employment Ylva Johansson who is responsible. The Minister for Labour seems satisfied despite the fact that 2 000 more young people are long-term enrolled in the Employment Service compared to when she took office. What do we think Moderates need to be done forward? I've been into it. It is absolutely right to continue to invest in education. For example, the strengthening of student aid that we introduced together with folk high schools is a good thing. Many people have benefited from the aid, and this can certainly be continued. I see more ways into work. I never thought that the solution for young people would be tens of thousands of places in the public sector. On the contrary, I believe that the whole labour market needs to be opened up, and a new way into all types of employers – small and large. No, we do not challenge the Swedish model. We believe that the Swedish model in which the parties set salaries is central and important. We also believe that it needs to be made easier for more people to get the first job. That is why we have proposed a form of employment where there is an educational content and where a job can be done. Today we presented our proposal on wage support. It was a work that began in the final year of the Alliance. We made it easier by merging some labour market policy proposals and starting wage subsidies. No, we did not have time to implement the proposals, but this minister has added more wage subsidies in the short time that this government has ruled. She has not simplified – quite the opposite. Wage subsidies have been increased. This is the wrong way to go. Thank you for the debate.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-244	Madam President, I would like It was telling when Eva-Lena Jansson described the policy of the government and the Social Democrats. It was ambition, goals and hopes. How about evidence-based outcomes? Maybe it's better than fine ambition. We know that high ambitions are not always consistent with what is going to happen. Both the government and the government can testify to this. Let us look at the examples mentioned by Eva-Lena Jansson. I suppose they are some kind of social democratic midwayer and are representative of the views of the Social Democrats. She cites Malmö as a positive example. In fact, if Sweden were to become Malmö, Sweden would not be able to support the welfare state. That would be a deterrent to a social democrat. If Sweden had the tax and labour market situation in Malmö, we would not be able to have a welfare state. It is strange to stand here as moderate and point out to a social democrat how to maintain a functioning welfare state. Plus working your way out of the crisis is not the way to go. It is jobs in the regular labour market, which can certainly be done with support and training and so on, which is the reasonable way. Creating jobs with the help of political dictates to put gold edge on everyday life rarely creates sustainable funding for welfare. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. It has clearly clarified the difference between the government and the opposition.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-249	Madam President, I would like I asked Elisabeth Svantesson and Hanif Bali a question. The strange thing is that none of them were able to answer the question of whether they were behind the Swedish model. Elisabeth Svantesson replied that they did not challenge the Swedish model. This is something completely different from being behind the Swedish model. I mentioned a study visit I had made in Malmö, where I met three young girls who for the first time in life get to feel meaning in life and feel longed for by both patients and other staff at retirement homes in Malmö. There they get to do good and feel that older people think it is important that they come to work and that the staff around them long for them to come to work. That Hanif Bali is ralliing over it is up to him. I saw the pride that those girls felt about it and about getting paid every month. It is very important for me to take note of these examples, because it means something when people with disabilities can be involved in the labour market. They could, of course, also work in private businesses, and I assume that private companies could also ask for them. The question is why they don't. There's pay support. I think it is very important to describe this activity, because it is part of politics. Having an education policy is also part of it. It is also a policy to have no education policy and to think that it solves things only with reduced taxes. That's the Moderates' answer to everything. It is not the Social Democrats.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-255	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Elisabeth Svantesson, who has left the Chamber, and Mr Bali for a good debate. I think these are important issues to continue to discuss. But it is important to use accurate statistics. In her interpellation, Elisabeth Svantesson compares the figure for long-term unemployed young people in October 2014 with that for December 2015. But if you compare October 2014 with October 2015 you see a decrease of just over 1,000. Compared to December 2014 with December 2015, you see a decrease of just over 2,000. Compared to January 2015 with January 2016 you see a decrease of 2 000 – 2,500. So it's a reduction. I will conclude by saying that I agree with much of what Mr Bali said. It's the outcome that counts. That is what you will judge whether or not I solve youth unemployment – for real. Labour market policy is not the key to solving unemployment. It's regular jobs-- maybe with support, maybe in combination with education. However, regular jobs in the labour market are the most important means of solving youth unemployment on a lasting basis.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-258	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson has asked me if I see any risks from the perspective of gender equality by deliberately hindering the growth of women-dominated industries and whether I fear that unemployment among foreign-born people may increase as a consequence of the reduction in the ceiling on the deduction of RUT services. A sustained reduction in unemployment and an increase in employment is one of the government's most important tasks. To achieve this goal, the Government's Job Agenda, which consists of three parts: investment in housing, climate change and infrastructure; an active business and innovation policy for more and growing companies; and investment in skills and matching. In the past in this House, the Minister of Finance has explained the effects on employment and entrepreneurship that the government expects as a result of the changes in the RUT deduction that we have made. As the Minister of Finance then put forward, the Government estimates that the changes in the RUT deduction do not make any difference for the vast majority of RUT buyers and that they are therefore deemed to have very limited effects on both women's and men's employment and entrepreneurship. I would also like to remind you that at the same time the government has agreed with the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats to extend the RUT deduction to include floating services, IT services and extended gardening.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-262	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. It went very fast; it's lucky that I have it in writing too. The elimination of the RUT deductions is, as I see it, an ideological alexander hem on the part of the Social Democrats. It doesn't give any revenue to the government. It only affects jobs. It doesn't matter that you come with words like business plan for Sweden, future contracts, Sweden's new job agenda, Sweden together, the Swedish social model, industrial chancellors, innovation capulter or the 100-club. You come up with a lot of words, but you don't come up with any reforms at all. In the reply, the Minister for Labour refers to the Minister for Finance's reply that it will not affect most RUT buyers. No, it may not affect most RUT buyers, but it does affect jobs. In fact, Madam President, the deterioration of RUT mainly affects women – women born abroad. Seventy-seven per cent of those working in the industry are women, and half of all those working in the RUT sector are born abroad. Sixty-two per cent of those who buy RUT services are women. The Minister for Labour, who calls himself a feminist – the whole government calls itself feminist – thus deteriorates in a sector that primarily affects women. The answer also mentions that it has to be seen as a whole, investment in infrastructure and housing, active industrial policy and so on. It's also a lot of words, just like what I listed earlier. I have not seen any new housing that has been funded with investment support. I am visiting around the county, but I have not seen any housing that has been funded with investment support to which the Minister for Labour refers. When it comes to infrastructure, the government simply chooses to cause concern. They were thinking about closing down Bromma airport. How many jobs would that happen? We have increased taxes on petrol. The whole countryside must be able to live. Not to mention the impact tax on nuclear power. Will we have any industry left in the country if we do not have nuclear power plants? In one stroke, conditions deteriorate with regard to RUT. Now you have to deduct only half against earlier. Of course, this creates uncertainty in the industry. According to the government, revenue of between SEK 60 million and SEK 90 million would be obtained through the halving, but in the industry it creates very great uncertainty. Previously, the industry grew by 10 percent per year. Now it grows by only 1 percent. RUT has created more than 20 000 jobs since 2007, when it was introduced. It has been a successful reform. But the ceiling for ROT, which is a male-dominated industry, is still 50 000 kroner. I find that odd. Even this construction benefits only those who can afford to do large renovations, but impairs those who do small renovations. With regard to RUT and ROT, black jobs have become white, women's labour force participation has increased and families with children have had time for their children. Unfortunately, it is still the case in Sweden – although we are the world's most equal country – that it is women who do most of the household chores, and with RUT they have been able to work and start new businesses. It is also wise from an environmental point of view, Madam President, to encourage the purchase of services rather than the purchase of goods.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-274	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really going to interfere in this interpellation debate, but it's a little hard not to. You're sometimes easily provoked by what you hear. From the description Erik Andersson makes you almost get the feeling that he has fever dreams. At least he sees a lot of dark nightmares in front of him. The interest in keeping RUT at the previous level seems to go through the entire moderate parliamentary group. There have been several interpellations about it, and the desire to get the cleaning of the indoor pool seems to be the most central for the Moderates. Now Erik Andersson has just reported the income that the government takes back by not giving RUT deductions up to a certain level. Very few people take advantage of that part. They're the ones who buy a lot of services. When it comes to there being a connection that people buy the service black or white depending on the RUT deduction, we have proof that it does not exist. The clearest evidence on this issue is a couple here in Stockholm, both with political missions for the Moderate Coalition Party, who continued to buy black services even though they had a total income of almost 200,000 a month. They continued to buy black services despite the introduction of subsidies for domestic services. They even extended the area of the person who cleaned the apartment to include the son's. Despite the introduction of tax subsidies, they bought the service black. Clear evidence that people buy only white services just because they introduce RUT deductions does not exist. I think it is important to use tax subsidies in a good way, so I have a question for you, Erik Andersson : Are you behind the Swedish model?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-280	Mr President, I would like to I did not take the floor because I was upset that Eva-Lena Jansson entered the debate. However, it is difficult not to be upset when Eva-Lena Jansson begins to speak. If it is an individual case that is the basis for how Eva-Lena Jansson makes her political assessment, one can in itself understand some of the decisions made by the majority. What we see when it comes to RUT deductions is clear: J obben is growing, companies are growing and groups that have previously been outside the labour market are entering the labour market. It is about young people and young women who get their first job, as well as new arrivals and also among them many women. We saw an increase in female entrepreneurship. It's clear. Of course, this will have an impact. In addition, the RUT and ROT deductions are lumped together, so if you use one, you get rid of the other. It is warned on both one and the other edge that more and more people are hitting the ceiling. It was also clear that the number of black jobs was reduced while the number of white jobs increased. Let me reconnect with Eva-Lena Jansson's previous question as to whether or not I support the Swedish model. Does the Swedish model, according to Eva-Lena Jansson, include that taxes should be higher, that more should go on grants and that fewer should work? In that case, I won't. But otherwise I think the Swedish model is quite good. However, we shall have a clear focus on work and a clear working line. Turning to the Minister for Labour, I would like to say that it is not only us Moderates who think that this is a good thing, but also a wide range of referrals, including the Employment Service. The Director-General of the Employment Service has been out appealing as late as February of this year that we should remove the restrictions in this legislation because it risks people hitting the ceiling, and then black jobs will be more and white jobs fewer. I cannot see that cleaning in someone's home would in any way be more ugly than cleaning in, for example, a workshop, a construction site or a hospital. Now that we see that the reforms we have implemented are creating new jobs, new markets and new businesses for people who have been far removed from the labour market, the current government, which otherwise suffers from a lack of proposals, is proposing to abolish and restrict. It is fortunate that you have the Alliance, which makes deals and demands to extend the RUT deduction in different ways. But you have managed to keep the limit on the amount, and I hope that you will come to your senses and abolish it.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-286	Mr President, I would like to The word is factually resistant and has become relevant in recent discussions. We saw a clear example of factual resistance just now. I'm sure there are few people who question that black jobs are going white by the RUT deduction. Even less is this questioned by an anecdotal example, such as Eva-Lena Jansson. When the Social Democrats themselves introduced the ROT deduction at one time, they did so on the grounds that it would do black jobs white, but this logic obviously does not apply to RUT. It's an amazing fact resistance! However, it is interesting to look at the effects of the restriction and the ceiling. I myself, who are not the big consumer of this, may well think that it does not sound so stupid to make a restriction, and only the rich are being squeezed. That's all right. But if you dig a little deeper and look further than just the political rhetoric and fluff, you can see that one important reason why the RUT deduction is not so costly is that it leads to many getting full-time employment and therefore paying taxes. A large proportion of them get jobs because of those who are large consumers of the RUT deduction. The removal of large consumers also reduces the share of self-financing. In other words, the RUT deduction is made more expensive by lowering the ceiling. I suspect that this later by the Social Democrats will be used as an argument for abolishing the deduction altogether. That is where the great danger lies. Large consumers of RUT services have two distinct effects. It is not only about the employee, but also about the person who consumes RUT services themselves working more. You can see that especially in women. For every hour bought RUT service, women work an hour more. That's the positive effect of the RUT deduction. Women with highly qualified jobs, high levels of education and so on do not get stuck in housework. Then we can discuss the injustice of women doing much of the housework. In fact, however, it is proposed that these women either have to go down in working hours or put more effort into stress and pressure to make ends meet. The ceiling leads to fewer people becoming self-sufficient. It will be more negative for the economy as big consumers then do not spend that extra hour going to their highly qualified work, where they pay rather juicy tax rates, which you have now even increased. With that logic, your argument simply does not go together! The government is not getting as much money as before, and this is at the expense of lower female employment participation than if v i had not lowered the ceiling for the RUT deduction. This is the danger of limiting the RUT deduction. I have no preference for special deductions for certain sectors, certainly not. But no matter how much I wish to disapprove of the RUT deduction, I cannot contest this fact. If I had, I would have been factually resistant.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-293	Mr President, I would like to For those who listen to this debate, which no one is doing in the gallery, it must be a little confusing. Let us still talk about what the government is doing. The government keeps the RUT deduction and plans to expand it. We are preparing proposals that will be submitted for implementation in the course of the year, for a wider RUT deduction. We say that you can buy RUT services for 25 000 SEK per person. If you are two taxpayers in the household, you can buy for 50 000 SEK. It's pretty much for most people. I have not heard anyone question the fact that very few people consume more RUT services than that. It is, therefore, this proposal, which has already been implemented, which we are now debating, and it is this proposal which is said in this debate to lead to the increase in undeclared work, the disappearance of jobs, the loss of businesses and the closure of Bromma airport, and so on. Let me calm you down. Bromma airport is still here. Jobs are getting more. Start-ups are on the increase. Companies invest and grow. I see no risk of white jobs turning black, but rather I hope the opposite.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-297	Mr President, I would like to I believe that those who listen to the debate understand exactly what it is about. But when it comes to evidence and facts, I believe that Eva-Lena Jansson is so full of socialist ideology that she does not see reality. For what we are addressing here are precisely facts and reality based on the studies that have been carried out on how the impact will be of the change in the RUT deduction. The most serious thing is not that there are quite few people using services for over 25 000, but the most serious thing is that we are creating concerns in the industry, and that is damaging jobs. It hits hard on the jobs and on our newly arrived Swedes. You can look at the calculations that exist. With a RUT-friendly policy, we could get 36 000 people who have employment in this industry, compared with 20 000 who grew up from 2007. So there are 16 000 more jobs to which you say no. It will of course harm new and future Swedes who get a foot in the labour market. Precisely in the context of expanding the services to include floating services, IT services and gardening, it is very stupid to halve the RUT deduction. Then it is better to keep it, at 50 000 kroner, so that those jobs can be more. Even the government's own Director General Mikael Sjöberg is very concerned about the development. He believes that the unemployment rate for natives is 4.8 per cent and that for foreign born 21.8 per cent. There is a difference of 17 percentage points. That must not be the case. That's not good. We can look at women born outside Europe. Half of them don't have a job. It's a disaster, I'd say. That's what I call alienation about something. It is only the Minister for Labour, Jonas Sjöstedt and LO who may think that this is a good development. But I don't think so. Your ideology is harmful and bad for Sweden. When the Director General of the Employment Service believes that RUT jobs contribute to creating jobs for people with weak links to the labour market, it should be evidence-based in some way. He goes on to say that we have to work with various types of proposals that create jobs that suit people a little further from the labour market. According to our assessment, many RUT services of such a kind are suitable for this group. When we talk about black jobs that have turned white and how tax morals tend to look like on that point, I can say that it was a survey that was presented just recently– I think it was by Demoscope– that shows that there are several people who might be working black, and there are several who might hire black labour. It's not a coincidence that this is the case right now that the RUT deduction has deteriorated. Eva-Lena Jansson takes care of her forehead.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-305	Mr President, I would like to You should hear a lot before your ears fall off. No, I'm not fact-resistant. I know more jobs have been created. I know that many jobs have been created in the RUT sector. I'm not denying it. However, I say that I am not sure that there is a link between the people who buy RUT services and those who previously bought black services. I'm not sure they've stopped buying black services, because it's still cheaper to buy black. And we can't get to that morale by raising the RUT ceiling. People who commit criminal acts will do so if there is little risk of going there. When I asked Erik Andersson if he was behind the Swedish model he did not want to answer. However, Christian Holm replied. He had certain reservations. I think Christian Holm has many reservations. I think it is important to be clear about what applies. What Erik Andersson is doing in this debate, and as many other Moderates do, is scaring the shit out of those who work in the RUT companies by pretending that something is going on, which it does not. The RUT services are still in place. The subsidies are still there. On the other hand, those who are large consumers have to pay more themselves. It is not forbidden to pay the full price, Erik Andersson. You know that, too. But to you it sounds like as soon as you pay what a thing really costs, you stop doing it. It says something about how one sees the value of the job being done, which many people born in another country are doing. Then I don't think it's predestined that whoever was born in another country must be the one to clean another home.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-309	Mr President, I would like to This debate becomes more interesting the longer it goes on. I find it increasingly difficult to understand the zeal that the government still has and has had in both the election movement and after the elections when it comes to not abolishing but merely limiting at the moment. If we go further out to the left in terms of government support, we end up in the Left Party. Then we know that it is the abolition that applies. Well, at least they have not been included in the government, even if the budget supports them. The RUT deduction is still in place and has been extended, says Ylva Johansson. I have worked for many years with democracy and human rights in foreign policy in countries that may not be so democratic. I have always stressed the importance of a viable opposition. Ylva Johansson also states this in this situation, because without any opposition in the Riksdag there would not have been an extended RUT deduction. It was not driven by any of the government parties. Bromma airport is still there, says Ylva Johansson. Yes, this is because the Alliance and a majority in the Riksdag chose to stop the closure plans, which the pink-green-red majority in Stockholm had together with the government. This has also been lamented by the government's responsible Minister Mehmet Kaplan. A viable and active opposition is obviously extremely important. I hope that it can also mean that the government takes on board that the RUT deduction creates new jobs, more jobs, new companies and more companies. Eva-Lena Jansson! I'm glad you're not against the facts. A quote is: The introduction of the grid and root deductions has reduced the acceptance among the general public of using black labour. That is the conclusion of the IRS. ..................................................... Eva-Lena Jansson likes the IRS. That is the conclusion that has been drawn. Perhaps that could be the facts: that undeclared work is reduced by a generous and good RUT deduction. If so few people use it in addition to this, as Ylva Johansson says, I wonder: Why limit it?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-317	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the question of whether or not the RUT deduction should be, my concern is precisely about the concerns that arise in companies. It tries to put it in the picture that it is the opposition that is driving this concern on the part of companies. This is not the case, since the government has been rhetorical and also sceptic about the deduction in action. Eva-Lena Jansson does. We also have the limitation of the RUT deduction and the ROT deduction. In addition, there is the most important budget partner, the Left Party, who definitely wants to remove the RUT deduction. When it comes to the concerns that exist among companies and that make them less willing to invest etcetera, the government tries to blame the opposition. It's amazing. It's not really like that. We know that the concerns that exist are partly based on the fact that the government has decided to halve the ceiling of the RUT deduction and also to ensure that the RUT deduction is under heavy fire from social democratic rhetoric. In addition, these jobs are somehow described as undesirable. Then you are not so surprised that Swedish companies in this industry are worried. In addition, there is Eva-Lena Jansson's rhetoric. She completely depreciates the possibility that this has contributed to fewer people using these services white. Nor is that true according to the figures that Christian Holm just presented.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-320	Mr President, I would like to There are huge ideological overtones from the Moderates and very many questions woven in here, about human rights and airports. But for me it's like this: we keep the RUT deductions, because they have actually helped to do black jobs white. We will extend the RUT deductions following an agreement with other parties. It is a proposal that will also be supported by the government. We limit the deduction to SEK 25 000 per person per year. If there are two in the household, they can pull off the double. Jobs are growing. Companies are growing. Start-ups are on the increase. Despite this restriction in the deduction – it is 25 000 SEK per year – Sweden is doing well. I think you might want to draw a little less gear on that adjustment.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-323	Mr President, I would like to What I can see from this debate is that government policies are hitting hard on jobs, hitting hard on new arrivals and hitting hard on women. It is very stupid in a situation when you have extended the RUT to more services to halve it all, because then it is clear that people do not come to work. When I've visited RUT companies and talked to the employees there, it says it's great. You get a foot in the job market, you learn the language and you get into a social context, which is very important. S eda n, if you want to and want to, once you have established yourself on the Swedish labour market, you can move on to other jobs. Because of ideology – that's what this is about, because it can't be about economics because there's so little revenue that the state would gain from this – you choose to worsen jobs, for new arrivals and for women.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-326	Mr President, I would like to In a previous interpellation debate here, one of the speakers said that it is the outcome that counts. Now Erik Andersson says that the government's policy strikes against jobs, against foreign born and against women. Then I can tell Erik Andersson that the jobs are growing. We have very strong job growth. Foreign born people are the most likely to increase their employment in the labour market, and it is foreign-born women's employment rate that is increasing most strongly.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-328	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me what reforms to the labour market that the government has made and which, in my opinion, are now leading to a fall in unemployment. He has also asked me what the impact on employment and on reform have been. The development of the Swedish labour market is strong. Employment is growing at a high rate and unemployment is falling steadily. Particularly positive is the trend among women born abroad, whose employment rate has increased significantly while labour force participation has increased. The reason for the strong development of the labour market is that growth in Sweden is high, also in relation to other EU countries. The government's employment policy is broad and involves investments for more and growing companies, investments in infrastructure, housing and climate change, as well as investments in skills and matching to equip people to take the jobs that are emerging. The number of job vacancies is more numerous than ever, and the government's efforts in education are therefore central to matching the unemployed with the skills required in the labour market. It is difficult to estimate the impact of each government reform on growth and employment. The estimates of employment effects are highly uncertain and should be used with caution. In addition, it is a bit early to assess the impact of the reforms. The reforms deemed to contribute to higher employment include training and fast track for newly arrived immigrants. Finally, the development of the Swedish labour market is strong and involves broad groups. The government's reforms help to strengthen development by, among other things, improving the matching of job seekers and job vacancies.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-333	Mr President, I would like to I should also like to thank the Minister for Employment Ylva Johansson for his reply, even though I do not have the answers to the questions I asked. I put the following two questions to the Minister for Labour: what labour market reforms has the government done and which, according to the Minister for Labour, are now leading to a fall in unemployment? Can the Minister for Employment say what the employment impact and reform have been? I asked these questions because of the fact that the tailings of the Social Democrats, the government and the Minister for Labour are very high in terms of labour market policy, as we have mentioned in the past. On their website, the Social Democrats, the party to which the Minister for Labour belongs, write: The latest forecast is that unemployment is falling. ..................................................... This last sentence is correct. In his answer to the first question, on which reforms have been made and to which it refers, the Minister answers rather vaguely without mentioning a single concrete reform. There are general terms that the government's policy is broad and so on, despite the fact that it clearly states on its website that it has implemented a series of reforms and has produced results. On the second question, concerning the employment impact and the reform, the Minister answers that it is difficult to estimate the impact of each of the reforms – while at the same time arguing on the website that the reforms have had an effect. The question then is how this has been achieved. How have the government and Ylva Johansson actually measured the effects and derived them to the fact that it is the government's reforms that have given the effect that they write about? I note that on the question of what reforms the government has implemented, I do not really get any concrete answers on specific reforms, but they are more general terms. We can ask for these reforms because, as far as the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is concerned, we will have a meeting at the end of next week, on 10 March, and this will be the first meeting of the Committee on Employment since 11 February, i.e. in one month. Normally, we have two meetings a week in committee, but that presupposes that something comes in to be dealt with. On the question of the results of the reforms, the answer is that it is not possible to derive the result of each individual reform from the reforms that I have not received. Mr President, I would like to It would be good if we could have a little more clarification and clear answers here in the debate. What are the references of the Social Democrats and the Minister for Labour when they say so clearly on their website that the government's reforms have produced results? Of course, the government and the minister want it to depend on the government's policy if jobs increase, but in that situation it is probably appropriate that one can also demonstrate this in some form of fact, which we have also been talking about here with Eva-Lena Jansson, regarding what the respective reform has actually brought with it. I'm giving the minister another chance to answer my questions.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-345	Mr President, I would like to The most important prerequisite for more jobs and lower unemployment is high growth. But that's not enough. We also need action for those who do not get jobs automatically as a result of a good economic situation. High growth, however, is very important. Sweden now has very strong economic growth. It is stronger than in Germany, stronger than in the United States, stronger than in Britain. This is a very important prerequisite for good development of the labour market. What creates economic growth? It's quite complex. It's about a lot of different things. But one important thing is faith and confidence in the future and the courage to make investments. It is also about support and support for exports. It's about resources and hiring more people in municipalities and county councils. It's about training efforts. It's about innovation. It is also about reforms in the Employment Service in order to better match people with the job vacancies. I will disappoint Christ ian Holm Barenfeld, because if you do not see – and I do not – that reforms are tantamount to tax cuts or labour market policy programmes, it is not as easy to count how many are affected in each way. Economic growth depends on many different things. Matching the labour market also depends on many different things, but there the liberalisation of the Employment Service has been given a very important role. We also have the investment in education. More needs to be done to get the best results from growth. This applies not least to those who are currently far from the labour market and who do not automatically get jobs because of their economic and labour market success.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-351	Mr President, I would like to I understand that it is not always easy to measure the exact effects, but the question I raised was nevertheless prompted by the fact that the Social Democrats, the Government and the Minister are very clear that they have implemented reforms. My first question was then what reforms, but I did not get a concrete answer to that. The next question was what the results of the concrete reforms have been, because it says that they have produced results. I do not get an answer to that either, but now I get the answer that it is difficult to measure. Then we will come back to this with facts and evidence. Is it not true, then, what is on the Social Democrats' website that they are writing about their policies, that they have carried out reforms and that these reforms have produced results? In fact, that is what it says, and that is still what we are not getting an answer to. We are happy to make more reforms in the future. As I said, we have plenty of time in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. The employment rate there is not very high because we do not get any proposals from the government to deal with. If the government is to present reforms and proposals, they will pass through the Labour Market Committee. The fact that it is all the time low in terms of the number of meetings of labour market committees must be possible to derive from the fact that there are very few proposals from the government in the field of labour market. I would like to ask once again what concrete reforms the Social Democrats are basing the statement on their website and how the impact has been measured, because this is what it says.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-355	Mr President, I would like to When the government explains why it has chosen to describe the situation in this way, it boils down to hope. The Minister himself says that it is too early to evaluate the reforms that have been launched. There hasn't been much in Parliament, quite simply. There have not been much legislative proposals in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. On the other hand, the government has almost magical effects in regle ring letters – and so on fine ambitions, goals and hopes that this will produce results. But it will not be when the Social Democrats communicate what they have done. You say that unemployment among young people and others was cut because of your policy. But at most you can say that it is your hope that it will be reduced because of your policy, especially given that your budget has only been in force for 60 days. As the Minister himself says, it is too early to evaluate the impact of this. The Minister stands here and says that it is too early to evaluate, that the effects are difficult to evaluate and so on. Nevertheless, it is presented in the media, on websites and in the government as the reason for the fall in unemployment. Then Christian Holm Barenfeld's question becomes very relevant. If you are so sure that the development we see is the effect of your policy, you should be able to prove it somehow. With regard to the criticism that the Minister had against us earlier that it is too early to evaluate and we cannot condemn her reforms yet, there are some different ways of gaining knowledge. One is to look at the outcome and another is to make a logical conclusion, i.e. to rationally look at what the result will be if I influence A. Will B be better if I affect A? This is basic high school philosophy. Here it is quite clear that the effects of the government's proposed reforms found in the evidence available are extremely limited. If the reforms have an impact, they will at most have a long-term impact. It is therefore almost bizarre that the government's budget has been in force for 60 days and the Minister and the Social Democrats are saying: this is a consequence of our policy. It just doesn't make sense. It is not an honest argument, and it is therefore reasonable to point out that if the Social Democrats have evidence that it is their policy that has reduced unemployment, we would like to take note of it. Well, that wouldn't be too much of a request.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-360	Mr President, I would like to Both Hanif Bali and Christian Holm Barenfeld have obvious problems with the success of Sweden. I repeat my answer: the government has halved government deficits. The government has invested in a new export strategy. The government has invested in a new industrialisation strategy. The government has invested large resources in more employees in municipalities and county councils, not least in school but also in social services and elderly care. The government has made major efforts both in the number of places and in the quality of education, not least in an extension of the university of applied sciences. The government has invested a lot of resources in the climate transition. The government is investing heavily in infrastructure maintenance, new infrastructure construction and housing. Obviously, overall, this has led to a belief in the future that makes many people willing to invest. Private stakeholders invest – it is growing today – and public actors invest. How much does each decision contribute to total growth? It's hard to say. But I dare say that it contributes. Economic growth, of course, also depends on developments in the outside world. It is good that it is still pulling in Europe now, even if it draws far worse than one would wish. We're not alone. It matters what happens around, but the government's policy also plays a role, and the government is always responsible for the outcome. Regardless of what happens in the outside world, it is the government's responsibility to deal with the situation. We now have a very, very big challenge with many new arrivals who are going to establish themselves in Sweden, get a home, go to education and get into the labour market. These will be significant challenges for the government, but there is nothing to blame for, because the government is always responsible for how it goes and how to deal with the challenges it faces. This is a big challenge. We will have to do more to make it. I would like to say to Christian Barenfeld that any new legislation in the labour market will not be the solution to the challenges we face, and there will be no such proposals in dealing with unemployment.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-365	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well, and we are all happy about that. We're on the upswing, and it's nice. It has not been so long since the present government was in opposition, we were in government and there was a global financial crisis. In some situations, it could then sound like the Swedish government was guilty of the whole global financial crisis, although the basis laid by the alliance government actually meant that the employment rate in Sweden was the highest in Europe, we had stable public finances and were judged to be one of the countries that went by far the best for economic during that period. We had a finance minister who was judged in the international press in much more positive terms than the one we have at the moment. Having said that, it is still the case that things are being done by the government, although there is not as much as we would like. Above all, what is being made has a different political direction from what we would like, but that is being in opposition. Ylva Johansson has said a previous year: there are therefore no serious problems to be addressed in labour market policy. Nevertheless, there are no proposals to be dealt with in the Employment Committee of the Council. Only this year has the committee cancelled six out of 13 meetings due to a lack of proposals and proposals. Then we had a little more than one meeting a week. We now have a monthly meeting because it is almost a total stop on proposals from the government to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. I do not think it is good for the government, but I am perhaps less worried about, for Sweden or for those who are outside the labour market. I therefore hope that we will see more proposals in the labour market that lead to jobs.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-370	Mr President, I would like to New industrialization strategy, export strategies and so on in all honour, but does Ylva Johansson seriously believe that it has been effective yet? Although it would be brilliant strategies and previously completely undiscovered, ingenious solutions, Ylva Johansson cannot seriously stand in Parliament's Chamber and say that they have already had an effect – and have also had such a substantial effect that it affects employment and unemployment in Sweden. That doesn't make any sense. It must be something incredible. Again, if Ylva Johansson had a single millimetre of evidence that this had an effect, that would be the reason for a Nobel Prize in Economics. I think this is the third criterion for a Nobel Prize to this government. Of course it's not like that. The reforms announced by the government will have a very limited impact. The positive increase in employment and so on, as we see now, is of a temporary nature and takes the form of a cyclical turn. It is mainly driven by an extremely large public consumption that is largely loan-financed and also largely by the Swedish krona and the Riksbank's monetary policy. This can hardly reduce the government with any kind of rational mind to being something that the government itself is responsible for. Of course it's not like that. It would also be nice if the government used the same rhetoric and logic that was used in this House just now.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-374	Mr President, I would like to Let us recall that the same people who are now standing here saying that the government's policies have no effect on unemployment were exactly the same individuals who previously said that removing the tax subsidy on the social security contribution for young people will lead to an increase in unemployment among young people. The result was the opposite. Half an hour ago they said that limiting the tax deductions for RUT services to SEK 25 000 per year will have devastating consequences for jobs. We'll see what the outcome will be. I think we will continue to see strong job growth. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to point out that the employment rate was the highest in Europe when I was in government before the bourgeois alliance government took office.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-376	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me two questions. The first is if I share Arbetsförmedlingen's assessment that the unemployment target is unrealistic to reach. The second is whether I share the Swedish Public Employment Service's assessment that there is a need for more simple jobs, and what measures I intend to take to stimulate the emergence of such jobs. The government's objective is that the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy should increase so that Sweden reaches the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. This objective clarifies economic policy priorities and will require further reforms to repress unemployment. Labour market developments are strong, according to the Labour Force Survey of Statistics Finland. Employment is growing at a good pace, mainly among foreign born people, while unemployment is clearly falling, not least among young people. Long-term unemployment is also falling after having stuck to very high levels in recent years. At the same time, the conditions for achieving the lowest unemployment target in the EU 2020 have become more challenging since spring 2013, when it was first presented. The growing concern in the outside world means that many people with protection needs will come to Sweden in the next few years. This population growth is welcome, as it meets demographic trends, while in the longer term it is estimated to mean more employed and stronger economic development. At the same time, it takes time for newcomers to enter the labour market, which is estimated to lead to an initial rise in unemployment. Against this background, the government will come back with further measures for higher employment and sustainable lower unemployment in future budget proposals. As I said in an interpellation debate on 2 February this year, the government estimates that the number of jobs with lower qualifications needs to be increased, but that this is not the only solution. Above all, it is important to take advantage of the expertise of those who come to Sweden. Fast track for new arrivals to shortage jobs and increased validation efforts are prioritised. Skills-enhancing efforts are also important. Increasing the number of hours worked therefore requires, in particular, efforts to equip individuals with good skills, as these skills are key to entering and remaining in the labour market. The Government's investment in, among other things, the Knowledgelift involves both a substantial increase in the number of places of education and measures aimed at higher quality education for adults. Target groups can be both newly arrived and young adults who have discontinued upper secondary school studies as individuals who need to learn in a transition phase or develop themselves. The agreement that the government has with the bourgeois parties includes the proposal that the RUT deduction be extended to include additional gardening services as well as moving and IT services at home. During the spring, the government will continue to develop new measures to encourage entrepreneurship among newcomers and to develop more jobs with lower education requirements. Investing in education, as the government is now doing, is also necessary in order for people with the ability to take more qualified jobs not to get stuck in low-wage jobs and crowd them out with short education. All jobs will be needed.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-384	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for his reply. The unemployment target is fixed," says the Minister for Labour. I was a little hesitant yesterday when Stefan Löfven sounded insecure. He talked about reaching it in the long run and hovering on the target. It was only when the journalist asked a straight question in the interview that he corrected himself and said it would be 2020. We can all think about that unemployment target – whether it is a good target at all and when it should be achieved. I like some of what the Minister for Employment said in the interpellation response, especially the very last: This is a sentence that I have said many times in this House. It is also good that the Minister says that new measures should be developed to encourage entrepreneurship among newcomers and to create more jobs with lower educational requirements. This is what we have been calling for and talking about for a long time. Then perhaps there is some recognition that these are the jobs that are needed. Not all people can handle education. Not all people can sit five or seven years on the school bench. Then it makes sense that they get the chance to work. But the Minister for Labour also said in his reply that the initial unemployment rate for these new arrivals would be higher. So one can be a little concerned about how many new ones will come this year, when we hear that the other government party goes out and says 150 000 new ones would be good. This will mean a very long time, and it may worry many more than me. I wrote my interpellation because I think it's serious when the important agency Arbetsförmedlingen makes the assessment that it will be really difficult to reach the goal the government has set itself. The resources are not enough, and many more simple jobs are needed. If it is now suggested that there should be proposals on this, that is a good thing. The only question is what is to come and what this looks like. There have been a lot of complaints about RUT and ROT before, but if there are other variations on that theme, it would be exciting to see. There are few of you who believe in the government's goals. The Council of Finance Ministers has sawed it completely. The Institute of Economic Development has condemned it, with the proposals that have been put forward so far. It will require at least 350 000 new jobs. One wonders if all these experts are wrong. My colleague Jenny Petersson asked a similar interpellation in May 2015. The Minister replied that there would be new reforms and that a wide mobilization was required, especially by municipalities and county councils. We know that the minister has travelled around the municipalities. But how'd it go? Only a small gutter of the trainee jobs and extra services promised last year has been created. It's not even a hundred, as far as we know. Quite substantial reforms are needed, and we are really looking forward to these reforms being presented quite quickly. Now there is a division of the labour market and a concern. Sweden is doing well and many people are coming to work, but there is a very large and growing group that is not allowed to take part in the successes. It is therefore very exciting to hear how the Minister sees what new proposals are coming. I'm waiting with excitement.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-391	Mr President, the Minister for Employment. This is an important, highly topical and relevant issue raised by the interpeller. Sweden has a big and growing problem and a challenge in the fact that more and more people with low education and a lack of language skills get stuck in long-term unemployment and exclusion. Unfortunately, for many years the situation has been that Sweden is really bad at integrating and getting asylum immigrants into work. This means, of course, that the measures that have been put in place, which are numerous and costly, do not work well enough at all. It is therefore alarming that the government, the Social Democrats and the LO continue to be so tone-doing, with a single traditional and square recipe that can be described as more of the same to give work to them far away from work. We often hear that the median time for when 50% of new arrivals have come to work is seven eight years – the Minister for Labour says so all the time – and that 65% have work after 15 years. It is far too low a share that we must quickly get up to make them significantly better. Unfortunately, the SCB statistics that everyone uses are quite euphemistic, since everyone is counted as working as the current week working at least one hour in temporary, part-time and full-time jobs and in jobs with 80% wage subsidies. I have often wondered how the development is over time for refugees, when they and their relatives have received a full-time job without any state subsidies involved. With all due respect for wage subsidies, which are important and necessary for those who need that support, the goal is nevertheless that most people should have their permanent full-time job paid by the employer. I have therefore allowed the parliamentary investigation service, the sharp Anna Enström Järleborg, to produce a report on this, because it is only when you have full knowledge of the current situation that relevant measures can be put in place to achieve the goals that you set. I find the report alarming and show how very difficult it is for the groups that I have pointed out to get work. I would like to share this with the Minister for Labour and the Parliament in this debate. This shows the report – listen carefully, Minister! If full-year employees and entrepreneurs are analysed, it turns out that the proportion of full-year employees including entrepreneurs of the total population in Sweden between 20 and 64 years of age is 69 per cent. The proportion of full-year employees including entrepreneurs among refugees including refugee relatives was 25 per cent after 8 years in Sweden, and after 15 years the proportion was 34 per cent. Among men, 32 per cent were employed full-year including entrepreneurs after 8 years and 18 per cent among women. In addition, these data include those working full-time and supported by wage subsidies, so the figures should be significantly lower in terms of full-time work with no state subsidies. I find it very remarkable that the SCB is not able to report this separately. This is the serious reality, the Minister for Labour. More of the same is not enough. New radical approaches are needed, as the Center Party and the Alliance show, but to which the government and LO say no. This makes me deeply concerned about the future.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-400	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström asks about the reasonableness of the government's objective of reducing unemployment and getting the lowest unemployment rate in Europe by 2020. I would like to remind you that former Moderates have questioned the social democratic government's labour market targets and unemployment targets. The government of Persson, between 1994 and 1998, also set itself a very ambitious target of reducing unemployment to 4%. The then moderate party secretary, I think, Lars Tobisson said that if you succeeded in doing so, he would start to sell finkling to the whole world as a major export product. I don't know if he ran that company, but the Swedish government managed to bring about that change. It was a joint effort that worked with the trade union organisation and discussed: How to solve this issue? How are we going to deal with the high unemployment rate? I have the same question to Staffan Danielsson and Katarina Brännström as I have put to the other co-debaters during the labour market policy debates. It applies to how you view the Swedish model. Do you think the Swedish model is good? Are you fully behind it? It would be interesting to have a concrete answer to that. The simple jobs must also be discussed. We have recently had a debate on RUT services. Erik Andersson has made it very clear that it seems that the common Swedish would rather have everything subsidized, because otherwise you are not quite prepared to pay the full price. As far as simple jobs and low wages are concerned, we in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have recently visited the United States. We saw very very simple jobs, me and Christian Holm Barenfeld. It was about pressing elevator buttons, holding the door open, standing with signs. Of course, many of those who had these simple jobs were unable to support themselves. 42 million U.S. residents depend on food stamps for their lives, even though many of them work. The question you have to ask yourself is: Are we prepared to reduce wages and reduce welfare in Sweden at any price? That is really what Staffan Danielsson is talking about, reducing wages. Then you have to think about what society you get. We also had the opportunity in the United States to meet one who received the Economics Prize instituted in Alfred Nobel's memory, Stiglitz. He noted that it is better to subsidise simpler jobs from an economic point of view but also morally – not to let the unemployed be the ones who bear their own costs.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-408	Mr President, I would like to The question is how we can find more simple jobs, namely jobs that do not require too high qualifications to enter the labour market. Of course it is not enough, just as Ylva Johansson described, with only simple jobs. If we look at the groups that are far from the labour market, especially those who come here from other countries as asylum seekers, we see low levels of education. They are so low that even if we had given people money to hire these people, it would not have produced such a huge outcome. So you can simply see that wage levels and productivity play a role, but if a person's productivity is sometimes even negative, no one will be employed no matter how low our wages are. The Minister for Labour is, of course, right to have elevating efforts in the sense of raising people's level of competence. In the group itself, we see that about 30 percent of those enrolled have about six years of primary school or less. I am aware that there is rather little evidence of being able to move adults from such a low level of education to post-secondary education or, in any case, upper secondary education, which is almost what is required in the labour market, within a reasonable time before they simply retire. Immigrants also retire. I do not believe that this is socially justifiable. So the question is: how can we raise people's levels but also lower thresholds? We do not come from having to lower thresholds in any way. We know that a major development in people's productivity is taking place in the labour market, that is, once you get a job and learn work in the workplace. There we see a sharp increase in productivity. That is why we should, of course, be allowed to employ people at a lower cost initially. If you then want to fill out the rest of the time with education or whatever you want to call it and how you want to organize it all matters less. What is important, however, is what is the response of the Social Democrats to get these simple jobs for people who do not reach the incredibly high level of productivity we have on average in Sweden. We have been working up this level of productivity – and I hardly need to tell a social democrat – for 150 years. It has been done with the general school system for everyone, by making education the norm, by everyone going to an education, by everyone learning how it works with summer jobs etcetera. All these standards have been created for a long time. For example, it is a question of women being involved in the labour market. If we look at the women's side among the newly arrived groups who come here, a majority of women have never worked for the rest of their lives. Of course, it is not something you just solve with a little training programme, but you have to lower thresholds. The question is simply: what is the government's plan, as they themselves say, to create the simple jobs and to enable people to become employed? If we're not going to touch on costs, tax wedges and taxes, and if we're not going to touch on wage formation, how are we really going to conjure up the simple jobs? There are basically some ways to do this: we raise people's levels, and we know that we can't make it easy. We can also lower thresholds. The question then arises: how do the Social Democrats intend to do this without reducing taxes and without changing wage formation or changing employment conditions? What is the plan of the Social Democrats? That's the big question tonight.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-415	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Katarina Brännström and Hanif Bali for constructive posts in a situation that is a great challenge. Those who come to Sweden are as different – or even more different – as those who already exist here. Of course, a particular challenge is those with a low or almost no level of education. It is the level of education that is the major watershed in the Swedish labour market – much clearer than ethnic origin or where you were born. This is a major challenge, and it cannot be met in just one way. Both elements must be chosen: firstly, improving the level of education and secondly, creating jobs and ways into the labour market for those with a low formal level of education. We have to do both parts. When we look at the group with a low level of education, it looks very different. Some are people who may have come here in their teens and who have not had time to complete their education before they get into the start-up assignment. Then they should continue with the training until they can reach upper secondary school skills. Others may be 40 years old and have never worked or attended any training. Then I do not think it is realistic for the vast majority of individuals to reach the level of education normally required for entry into the Swedish labour market. So you have to work in several different ways. As Mr Bali said, the wage sink line will not be successful. On the other hand, you have to work with wage costs. This applies to the individual, where you know quite well that it has a good effect when you meet the right person at the right time. But I am also no stranger to having general tax subsidies for sectors. RUT deduction is one such thing, for example. I am not entirely unaware of this, but it should always be borne in mind that there is a high risk of deadweight costs in this type of general subsidy. That must be taken into account. The government is looking at several different proposals, and we will have to put forward more proposals than those we have so far put forward to do so. It's quite obvious. Both tracks are needed, and combinations thereof. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to say something to Staffan Danielsson, who chooses to be very alarming. We know that the Center chooses to attack the entire Swedish model. It is true that we have challenges with many new arrivals, and it is true that major changes will also be required of entry into the labour market. But we should also remember that Sweden is the OECD country that I think has the second highest employment rate of all. We are a country where not everything, but much, works well in the labour market. We are a country with high employment rates and few days of conflict. The whole model is based on the fact that the parties take responsibility and have done so. So do they at this point. They take responsibility. These are very constructive fast-tracks which shorten waiting times, remove dead time and ensure that validations and entry into the labour market can take place more quickly. I would like to say something to Staffan Danielsson, whose party represents that it should leave the Swedish model and instead start legislating on salaries. He accuses the government of making more of the same, as he says. I would like to make it clear that we are doing exactly the opposite. We have just turned Sweden into another direction. Tax cuts are over. We're done with cutbacks. We're done with coaches and pilots who don't work. Now we have set Sweden in a different direction and another direction precisely so that we can meet the major challenges that we have today and that we have ahead of us. Abandoning the Swedish model and starting legislation on lower wages or being alarmist and presenting challenges as impossible – that does not help us.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-424	Mr President, I would like to We have a high employment rate in Sweden; we can fully agree on that. I also agree with Ylva Johansson that the level of education is the watershed. If you have a higher education, you will somehow get into work quite quickly. It is those with low education or no education at all who are the big challenge. That is why I believe that Swedish unemployment is currently becoming an integration problem. Many of those who have come to Sweden have a low school base. There will be a growing gap between native and foreign born, which is, of course, a major challenge. In this we have come up with various proposals where we have found a new form of employment and where we are talking about a lower salary. We are not talking about lower wages; we are talking about jobs with lower wages. It is so everywhere in Sweden. Different jobs give different wages. Not everyone has the same job. I can't believe it's gonna be hard to understand. You should learn the job at work, you are integrated into Sweden – and it has a price. As Staffan Danielsson said, after eight years no more than 25 percent have entered full-time jobs. It's a bad history we take with us into the future. Therefore, thresholds for entry into the labour market need to be reduced in different ways. This government is lucky. Now it's a rise, and it's a boom. But what if the economy is slowing down, interest rates are rising and Swedish exports are falling? What, then, is your concept of the new jobs that must be created when it does not roll on by itself? It's not something that happens automatically. It's just the business cycle that's making things go on right now. Your own reforms have become major failures. It's not a lot that's gone to trainee jobs or extra services. The truth is also that Sweden has the lowest share of low-wage jobs. Wage costs are high in Sweden. The employer's contributions are highest. It is a record price to hire people in Sweden. Of course it will be an obstacle. Somewhere you have to find a mix where you either lower costs or hold down wages. We did this with the help of RUT, ROT and the job tax deduction so that you can afford to buy services. It has been a veritable success. Build this model so that even more services are created that ordinary people can afford to buy. Sweden needs hundreds of thousands of new jobs for both the highly educated and not least the low-skilled. Not everyone will be able to sit on the school bench for many years. This is the consensus of all the experts. We can agree on this, too. It feels like the government sometimes goes through union affairs by protecting those who already have jobs but do not take responsibility for those who are outside. A lot of jobs can be done far and wide. It's about white jobs instead of black jobs. Service services, repairs and private consumption are very important in this context. I think we should find those opportunities if we work together. It is the cooperation government that proposes it. The challenge is to create 350 000 new jobs. It would be interesting to hear how the government thinks it is. I would also like to thank you for the debate. It is very interesting to discuss these issues. It is important that we continue the debate because we do not agree.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-434	Mr President, the Minister for Labour. The government stands for something new – more of the same. What Sweden needs is a New Deal. That's the situation. Refugees and their relatives must be integrated and brought to work in a much better way than has been – and is – the case for many years. The government did not seem to take on board the figures I presented in the RUT report. Sixty-nine per cent of Swedes, including entrepreneurs, have full-year jobs. After eight years, 25% of refugees and their relatives have jobs. After 15 years, 34 percent have jobs. It is the harsh starting reality that must motivate what we need to do. Of course, this requires continued efforts in ways that have taken place for a long time, such as entry-level jobs, training and apprenticeships. But that's not enough. There is inevitably a need for radical and new measures that can have an effect. The Center Party has presented lines of concrete proposals for both better integration and for many more to come to work. One example where the focus is supported by a coherent economic expertise in Sweden and internationally is to agree on lower entry wages for new arrivals. The other alliance parties have proposals in the same direction. It is better to get a job with payment far above what most pensioners and students have than to live on benefits and in constant exclusion. After entering the labour market, you can move on to the normal labour market. Newly old is not enough – more of the same. There is a need for a New Deal in Swedish labour market policy.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-438	Mr President, I would like to I asked you a question before the break. None of the people I asked the question answered the question. I think they do not really want to answer the question because they do not share my view that the Swedish model has served Sweden well. Both Katarina Brännström and Staffan Danielsson say that you want to change and destroy the Swedish model. Let me compare with a tablecloth on a table. If you pull in one corner, you'll soon pull the entire tablecloth from the table. That is what you want to achieve by influencing the whole wage formation. You're talking about that it's too high an entry fee. You are not talking about discrimination in the labour market. But I am proud that there are high entry wages in Sweden. This means that we have a society where we grow together, where there is education for everyone, and that employees are allowed to take part in the production to which they contribute. It's important. When it comes to seeing what is happening in the Swedish labour market today, it is important to give people who can and want to educate themselves the opportunity to take part in education, not to say that the door is closed because we do not believe that education is possible. A lot of those who come to Sweden have not worked secularly, but they have worked their whole lives but never been paid. Many of them are women. It goes without saying that they should be able to enter the labour market. Both education and labour market policies must be effective, and there must be different types of jobs. Today there is an opportunity to subsidise these jobs. It would be much cheaper for the employer than lowering wages. If wages are reduced, the Swedish model will be destroyed.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-443	Mr President, I would like to Eva-Lena Jansson drove some kind of question if we want it as in the United States. I wasn't gonna answer the question, but okay, fine, I'll do it. 15% of the U.S. population lives on food stamps. If we look at the example mentioned by Eva-Lena Jansson, the Social Democratic window in Malmö, we can see an equally high proportion living on the Swedish equivalent of food vouchers, namely the social security allowance. 15 per cent of Malmö's population have less income than SEK 3 000 to live on after rent. They're food stamps. They get money and food to make it through the day. This is what Eva-Lena Jansson's Swedish model has created. No, I don't want it like in America. There's such a large percentage that lives on food stamps. That's why we should have a reasonable stairway in. I'm not saying we're going to lower the total wage level. Of course, you should have a wage career, but it cannot be like today where you are either 100% productive and perfect for the employer or not getting access at all and only have the option to go to Malmö's social services and get food vouchers. It is that society that has been created now. It's unworthy. It is good for the Minister for Labour to point out that education is an explanatory factor. It removes the previous rhetoric about the black-haired or passive victim who cannot change his situation. If you are educated in this country and take advantage of the opportunities that exist here, you are doing quite well. The question is why not so many do so to a sufficient extent. This is where the government must make proposals so that more people choose to train and also lower the thresholds so that more people can make the salary career necessary to live an active life.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-448	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Staffan Danielsson, the challenges are great, but that does not mean that we should throw away the Swedish model and let politicians in this House or the government legislate on wages. It would be a terrible dead end for Sweden to throw us into a dangerous development. It is not that a pool of expertise says that lower wages would make it easier for more people to get jobs. The collective expertise says they know little about this. The research is contradictory. But a lot of people say that there is probably some positive effect on employment, but it is not so great. For example, the Council of Finance Ministers says that there is rather poor evidence. It is proposed anyway, but you do not really know if it will work. So there is no collective expertise to say this. What we do know, however, is that there are already many women in the areas of Handels, Kommunals och Hotell and Restaurang that have difficulty in getting paid. It's not because the salary is really low. This is because it is not high and because you have an hourly or insecure fixed-term contract and therefore do not receive a full-time salary. Lowering these people's wages will affect everyone in their workplaces. That's what happens. You don't just lower your salary for a few people, but you lower your salary for everyone. Then they will find it even harder to make the economy enough. One can question whether this is a good development for Sweden. I don't think so. Katarina Brännström and Hanif Bali both address the importance of education. Although I think we disagree on a lot of issues, I would like to draw attention to those where I think we can meet. One such issue is the view on the importance of education and the importance of combining employment with training elements. These should be able to be of a variety of types – both on-the-job learning and regular education. In all these forms, I believe that it is natural that you do not have a salary for education. Building apprenticeships is one example. I think you have 11 000 – 12 000 when you are employed as a builder. This is because a substantial part of the employment is educational. This has also been agreed between the parties. The discussions I have with the social partners say that they want to continue discussing ways of combining education and work. It is not reduced salary, but it is reduced salary cost because you get paid for the work you do. I have said many times in this House that labour market policy should be pragmatic. It should be adapted to reality. If you have a situation of low demand in the economy and in the labour market, it becomes a type of labour market policy. Right now, when we have a fairly strong demand, you have to adapt to it, and then matching and education are important elements for the employer to get the right skills. There is clearly no simple link, because those countries with lower wages and lower taxes also have lower employment rates than Sweden. That's the way it is. So there is no simple link that would show the opposite. I believe, Mr President, that the social partners take great responsibility for those who are excluded. I'm sure it could be bigger, and I think it will be. But right now the parties are in a very difficult contractual movement, and you should have respect for that. It rests a great responsibility on their shoulders to bring home responsible and constructive agreements among themselves. I think that we as politicians are wise to try to keep arm-length away from this. The work on the fast track has been very constructive. For example, you can look at if there may be an organisation where women who may have worked to care for relatives can validate that care competence and see how it can be useful with a certain build-up – perhaps in elderly care. This is a constructive way for the parties to meet and make the step into the labour market easier for those who are new in Sweden and will establish themselves.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-460	Mr President, I would like to I will continue to ask about jobs with lower qualifications until the government presents such proposals. Whether we agree that much more education is needed, more new jobs are also needed. I think LO protects those who already have a job far too much and care far too little about those who are outside. Whatever LO says and thinks, we in this House must care about everyone. That's why new reforms are needed – not just talk, Ylva Johansson! We need results. As we stand here talking, the gap is growing between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to get a job. What sets us apart from other countries that have lower unemployment? Yes, it's wage costs. It is necessary to reduce either wages or costs around wages. It's pretty simple. Buying services in Sweden is far too expensive. It is significantly cheaper in other countries. Sometimes I wonder what would have happened if we had removed all subsidies, if the market had been allowed to do this on its own without anyone interfering. It is not certain that there would have been so much difference between the results. This is the case when we talk about not being able to live on your salary: there are low pensions. Study grants are not very high. The unemployment fund isn't really high either. There is a large group of people in our society who live on very small margins, and they must manage. Of course we can say: Why not get up a little less in salary but still learn how to get into Sweden and learn the job? This is going to be a huge challenge, and I will not be satisfied. I will continue to ask and debate in this House, because I think we all agree that if we do not take a strong stance, Sweden will be in real trouble. Then we'll have a class difference that we don't want to see. I would therefore like to thank you for the debate. I hope that neither the Minister for Employment nor I will be satisfied until we have this fixed.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-468	Mr President, I would like to I can conclude by saying that yesterday the government presented efforts that are a piece of the puzzle for those who are very far removed from the labour market, namely our efforts at work-integrated social enterprises. The Government has decided on 60 million which the Swedish Agency for Growth will use to stimulate more and growing work integration social enterprises. Arbetsförmedlingen is working to change its systems in order to better use the services that work integration social enterprises can provide. The Ministry of Industry will appoint a special investigator to review how the company form can grow. These examples are one of the pieces of the puzzle that will not solve everything but that play a role for many of those who are very far removed from the labour market, where we know that work integration social enterprises are making important efforts and should be able to grow.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-473	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure rational use of Sweden's aircraft engine heritage, for example through further use and possibly also further development of the RM12 engines. The Government has decided in January 2013 to acquire JAS 39E after the approval of the Swedish Parliament, and the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration have placed the required orders for the industry. The Parliament's decision was preceded on 8 November 2012 by an open hearing in the Riksdag where various development options were highlighted. JAS 39E is based on the protestor previously decided by the Riksdag in 2007 through the JAS 39 Gripen Action Plan. The starting points in the operational requirements of the JAS 39E have been to gain increased reach and endurance and thus be able to carry more internal fuel as well as more arms beams and thus gain a higher load capacity. The need for more advanced sensors was also included in the requirements. All these factors mean that the requirement for traction in the engine is higher than in JAS 39C/ D. RM12(F404), the engine now used in JAS 39C/D, is basically just like the engine in JAS 39E(F414) an American engine with a large American content. A switch between the two engine options depending on the assignment requires a further development of RM12 and an additional development for the installation of different engines in the aircraft as well as for all system functions that depend on the special characteristics of the engine. Such further development with aircraft system upgrades is likely to have to be doubled due to the two engine options. The logistics supply of the engines would also need to be changed. I note that the necessary decisions regarding JAS 39E have been taken for more than three years, that developments are soon to arrive at the roll-out and that the first flight and series delivery thereafter are fast approaching. To consider at this stage a change in such an essential component of the aircraft structure as the engine would seriously increase the risk in the project. The choice of F414 for Gripen E is not a passive waiting for the post-calculations but a highly conscious choice for the future Gripen system to have the right performance and development potential. It is therefore not appropriate to take any action.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-477	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. It may seem a bit trivial to interpel about individual engines in Swedish fighter aircraft, but it is important to know that the project mentioned by the Minister of Defence, JAS 39E, covers a total of approximately SEK 100 billion over its entire life cycle. Of this, it is generally said that about 40 percent is related precisely to the engine. So what we are talking about here is a year of Sweden's defence funding. Since the decision to acquire the U.S. engines was taken and to date the exchange rate has changed considerably. It was then assumed that $1 would cost $1.32. Now we all know that it costs well over $8. This hits hard on the project plans that we have. Only today did the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base also come, which highlights the risks. They write: This means that the Swedish Armed Forces' funding since the base of the defence policy orientation period in December 2014 will be eroded by at least 9 billion in the period 2016 to 2028. Of this amount, just over SEK 5 billion is available in the period 2016–2020, i.e. the current defence decision period. The significance of this is, therefore, that the defence settlement that led to the defence decision this summer is now seriously threatened by these increases, partly as a result of changes in exchange rates. Then the Secretary of Defense says that we are making an active choice when choosing the American engine F414, and he emphasises that this is not passively waiting for an aftercalculation. But it will be when the Minister of Defence goes back as far as ten years in time and says that we then established the Action Plan JAS Gripen. Then we have held hearings and made decisions in different rounds. If you think all of this is carved in stone, you just do nothing but sit down and passively wait for the post-calculation and all the effects that this will have on our Swedish defence. I also note that the Minister for Defence is rather vague when discussing the specification of the fighter aircraft. He's talking about increased reach. He's talking about new sensors and the ability to carry a larger weapon load. But the fact that the Secretary of Defense is so vague in these parts indicates to me that the fighter aircraft does not yet have a detailed specification. Nor does he comment on the fact that there is no maintenance preparation. Nor does he comment on the fact that today we are actually marketing this aircraft in India. Peter Hultqvist himself has been to India and marketed it. It goes without saying that when large countries are next to buy an aircraft, the specification must be kept open. What I'm trying to say is that the project is not locked. It is possible to influence it and be proactive, but it requires activity from the government.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-485	Mr President, I would like to JAS 39 Gripen is a fantastic aircraft that has been developed in Sweden and sold to different countries, such as Hungary and the Czech Republic. Fortunately, it has also become a deal where the new E-version will be sold to Brazil. One question that I would like to ask is whether the Minister for Defence can provide information on whether a new American engine will be maintained in Sweden or whether it will happen abroad and whether the Minister for Defence sees risks of maintenance being moved from Sweden. Can it affect the Swedish ability in this area?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-487	Mr President, I would like to Widman and Oscarsson, do you see any risks in starting to pull vital components out of the project? Do you think it's just a change of engine, and then the problem is solved? You have no idea that this is a system that is composed for increased range, increased endurance, being able to carry more fuel, more weapons beams, higher load capacity and advanced sensors. These factors mean that the requirement for traction in the engine is higher than it was for JAS 39C/ D. Besides, it was well during your reign that the decisions were made. That was when they held hearings and laid down the specifications. What did you do back then? What work did you do to prevent this situation, which you do not find satisfactory, from arising? What kind of self-examination are you doing here? Now you are calling for immediate action that could put us at risk of problems. We have a development work that has been going on for a long time, and we have roll-out soon. First flight and serial delivery approaching. Of course, this is a big project. That's it. It goes many years. We were all aware of this when the decisions were taken. As chairman of the committee, I had the opportunity to hold discussions with the then government and the then defence minister, in which we tried to reach a broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament on this. I assumed that it was relatively calm within the bourgeoisie on this point and that all questions had been settled internally. What kind of discussions did you have back then? It would be interesting to find out. What is Widman's and Oscarsson's memory of such discussions, and what did you personally do in that context? It would be interesting to find out, compared to the kind of debate that is currently taking place. It is also a fact that there is an ongoing discussion between Saab and GKN, previously Volvo Flygmotor, about what the national resource for production support and rear maintenance, for example, should look like. Through FMV, the state has placed an order for development and acquisition of JAS 39E to Saab. Acquisition and maintenance of the engine is an essential part of this order. We'll see what Saab and GKN come up with in the discussions about just the rear maintenance. There may be openings here. Saab is the main interest in the project. Saab has the main responsibility as a company. Saab also has the main responsibility for one of our security interests in Sweden, which the Riksdag has also established. It is no secret that the Gripen system, like a lot of other systems, contains components that are American and that we are deeply dependent on American technology in this context. This is not exactly news, but it is a fact that most people who have taken an interest in this matter are well aware of. I would like to hear what you personally have done on this matter in the past and how you reasoned in the previous government coalition before we proceed in this discussion.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-497	Mr President, I would like to Peter Hultqvist calls for what I and Mikael Oscarsson have done during our time as Members of Parliament in 2010 and 2014. Since it was precisely Peter Hultqvist who led the hearing that preceded the decision to acquire JAS 39E, he knows that I asked questions about the current flight engine, among other things, that we can continue to fly for another four decades without the engines running out. I got the answer from the Swedish Armed Forces: Sweden will not fly with those engines after we have acquired the new E-plane. But as Mikael Oscarsson pointed out, Sweden has sold, in government-to-government deals, this aircraft not only to Hungary and the Czech Republic but also to Thailand and South Africa. We have thus, of course, guaranteed that the old engines will be maintained and maintained with the foreign buyers. So I have tried in various ways to help reduce the risks in this project. But now Peter Hultqvist has to understand that the dollar rate has changed, and this project risks being costing a large number of billions of dollars. Neither I nor Mikael Oscarsson, Mr President, have any opportunity whatsoever to go in and control the authorities involved or to negotiate with the industry. Only Peter Hultqvist can do this as Minister of Defence. I would like to emphasise that it is not just about 39 Gripen E as a project. This is something that has the potential to overturn the entire defense decision taken by the Riksdag. That is why I must ask the Minister for Defence to take a more constructive position than that which his reply gives. The Viggen, an exceptional fighter aircraft that Sweden had not so long ago actually had in its time non-entity fleet, had different propulsion options. It is not just the case that the two engines we are now discussing, RM12 and F414, are American in general. They belong to exactly the same family, different generations. And they have the same diameter. Changing engines depending on the mission is not as complex as the Secretary of Defense describes. But it then has the potential to save a lot of money in a very difficult situation. The Minister for Defence then deals precisely with the issue of the maintenance of the new aircraft engines. I note that he says that the industry can discuss this. GKN, the old Volvo Aero, gets to talk to Saab Defence, and you have to come up with a solution. But ultimately, Mr President, this is about: where is the maintenance going to take place? Is this supposed to happen in Trollhättan in Västergötland? Or is it supposed to happen in Connecticut, U.S.A.? That's what it's all about. Then it is not just about Swedish jobs. It is about Swedish competence in this area. And, Mr President, it is about the effectiveness of the maintenance of these fighter planes in the future. If they are to fly across the Atlantic to get their maintenance, unfortunately the availability and ability of the Swedish air forces will go down radically. I now put a very straight question to Peter Hultqvist : Is Peter Hultqvist, if the industries do not agree, prepared to work to ensure that maintenance of the aircraft engines remains in Sweden and under Swedish control and thus that we also maintain competence in the field of aircraft engines?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-504	Mr President, I would like to JAS 39 Gripen has been an important thing for Sweden. It has developed in Sweden. Maintenance of the engine has taken place in Trollhättan. This has been a successful collaboration, and GKN also manages maintenance for Hungary and the Czech Republic. That is exactly what I raised in my question. Can the Minister of Defence tell us whether a new American engine will be covered in Sweden or abroad? This is something I have been engaged in for a long time. It is about the need for this to be in Sweden. It is a national capability that we have, but 50% of the operating cost applies to the engine. It's such an important part. That is why I think it is valuable to have a discussion. From my point of view, I would like to stress that what is done by GKN in Trollhättan is valuable. In a security policy environment that is getting tougher, it is a valuable aspect that it is happening in Sweden and not, as the previous speaker said, in Connecticut. Although Connecticut is nice, it is better to have it in Sweden. Something's working. It is in this light that the Secretary of Defense will see my question. Can the Minister of Defence provide information as to whether a new American engine will be maintained in Sweden or abroad? Does the Secretary of Defense see the risks of the maintenance being moved? Those were my questions. I hope I can get answers to them.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-508	Mr President, I would like to What Mr Widman is saying is a course of action on his part. I do not know whether Oscarsson acted on this at all during the time you were in government. But what Widman describes is some kind of action based on the principle: will well but not be able in practice. So you were unable to rig this in your time in such a way that you are now talking about and have demand pictures about. Nor do you seem to have any particular understanding of the fact that a number of years have passed and that these products have now developed quite substantially and that there is a first flight, series deliveries and roll-out in this context. Then I don't know. I am not going to make myself a technical expert on either one or the other. But surely it is true that when it comes to the hearing in Parliament and what has governed this project has been about achieving performance on JAS Gripen E, so that we could measure ourselves with what is happening in our neighbourhood and in our surrounding world. Besides, it took a stronger engine to do this. F414 gives approximately 20 per cent more traction than RM12. They mean that Gripen E gets so-called supercruise ability. The choice has been made on the basis of an operational picture in this context. As far as the changes in dollar rates are concerned, there is a need to discuss foreign exchange insurance schemes in this context. I guess that's the way to go when you're gonna look at those pieces. Then there are the maintenance issues. It is clear that it would be tempting for me now to enter into an exact discussion about where one and the other production should be. I can nevertheless say that it is FMV who is dealing with this type of question for us. Then I note that there is an ongoing discussion between Saab and GKN in these contexts. We'll follow that trend and see where it goes. But I am always interested that as much as possible of the production takes place in Sweden. That's it. But we also have authority. And we have a negotiation process. We'll see how it develops and how it ends. But I do not think that this is a really fair debate, because very much of what you are bringing up is something that really falls on your own responsibility. You should have straightened it out at an earlier stage. This should have been done within the framework of the previous government, which was ultimately responsible for that process at the time. Although Mr Widman asked no question, I did not understand that it gave any deeper cause to the then minister's ears. That's what we're starting from now. That's the situation, isn't it? Then there is the defence agreement. The fact that there are costs that have increased in this context is not something that is a surprise to me. I warned you about that at the Sälen Conference. Now it is important to try to deal with this situation and to see how to handle it. It is about doing it as constructively as possible. Then perhaps the big words are not the most important thing, but the most important thing is: How do we process each project to bring down the cost and to get this as far as possible within the framework that applies?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-515	Mr President, I would like to Svenska Dagbladet has today believed that it is able to report a number of other material projects that, according to the newspaper's information, are likely to become more expensive. The sad thing about this is that when the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration enters into agreements with third parties, in this case different defence industries, the Swedish state is bound to these agreements. Thus, when there are increases in the field of defence of the kind that may now occur, the Swedish Armed Forces are directed to save on the costs that the agency itself can influence. These are costs such as the training of soldiers, unit activities, exercises of military units and the like, and given the world situation that is now there are no alternatives. Now the Secretary of Defense is talking about currency hedges. It's time to think about it now. It does not matter whether it was an alliance government or whether it was a then chairman of the Committee on Defence who was involved in these decisions. Now we have the situation we have, and either the government can sit passively and wait for the calculation and find that the projects planned, the defence decision proposed in the Riksdag, will not be able to be financed, or so we act here and now. Finally, Mr President, Peter Hultqvist has been a defence policy which has often referred to essential national security interests. He also mentioned here in the debate today that the Gripen aircraft are one of those, and the submarines are another. Then my final question to the Minister for Defence is: What about the Swedish maintenance of aircraft engines? Is that an essential national security interest?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-519	Mr President, I would like to With regard to all these pieces on the cost of material projects, I would just like to say that the forecasts and provisions that we have now received do not seem to me to be a closed chapter at all, but here we need to discuss what can be done about the respective projects. Nor is there anything that is closed and locked from the government side. So there is work to be done here, and then we are not just waiting for some post-calculations and accepting these figures, but we are going to try to do what we can. I also hope that I can trust that the opposition is interested in such work being carried out and that we are trying to process this cost picture. One cannot simply sit down and passively accept what has now been presented. As far as post-calculation is concerned, I believe that you have a responsibility from your reign. I think, therefore, that one can perhaps tone down the volume of the attacks a little bit, realize its own role in this context and thus nuance the discussion somewhat and thus get a little closer to reality, the realities, in this. We are probably all interested in resolving all of this, but then the question is how much we should accuse each other. If you push the level up high enough in this so that there is almost a trial of it all, then I would like to answer a little bit against it and tell you that there is something called history in this too, and it might be good to remember that. I've given my picture of the maintenance of aircraft engines. In essence, however, it is so that I am interested that as much as possible of both manufacturing, maintenance and other things take place in Sweden. Then I will not go in and make promises on exactly how to do it in these matters.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-524	Mr President, I would like to Lena Asplund has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to recruit personnel from all over the country as well as if I believe that the Swedish Armed Forces' recruitment authority needs clearer directives to increase the use of the agency's mobile recruitment office in Luleå. Totalförsvarets recruitment authority is an authority that carries out mission activities on behalf of other authorities in the recruitment of personnel. As Asplund points out, it requires a broad recruitment base to be able to meet, for example, the Swedish Armed Forces' needs for personnel. As Minister of Defence, I assume that the authorities use the infrastructure conditions available for recruitment activities, thereby achieving both economic efficiency and geographical proximity to the intended target groups while taking a responsible account of the negative environmental impact resulting from extensive travel activities. In the personnel supply investigation led by Annika Nordgren Christensen, the investigator will present an overall picture of the measures needed to find a long-term sustainable personnel supply of the military defence. The report shall be presented by 30 September 2016. So I do not want to precede the investigator's findings.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-528	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence Hultqvist. I have asked a written question about this in the past and did not think the answer was complete. That's why we're here today. The origin of this is that I was in Boden and Luleå in December, at I 19, A 9 and F 21, and then the question of recruitment problems was raised with me. The big problem was to keep the soldiers who didn't come from the neighborhood. Abandoned in any scrub on the F 21 there is equipment to do all the physical tests and what is needed for extraction to the GMU. In Sälen I also met the Home Guard's manager Roland Ekenberg, and the Home Guard is also of the opinion that it would be very good if the tests could be made a little closer so that you don't have to go away. It is believed that we could then have a little more locally based staff that will remain. I think this is an important issue. You discussed aircraft engines before, but without personnel, we have no defence. You can have as many good aircraft and aircraft engines as you like, but you need staff and recruitment is important. The Secretary of Defense says in his reply that there's an investigation going on. This is true, but there is also an investigation carried out in 2014, the Swedish Armed Forces in society – a long-term sustainable military personnel supply and a modern popular attachment to the defence, by Stefan Ryding-Ryding-Berg. He does not address these issues, but there are other interesting things there, such as how to invite 18-year-olds to a day in the defense so that they can see what the defense is up to, and then perhaps interested ones can seek. If I have understood it correctly, it is something similar that is done in Denmark, where all 18-year-olds have to come in and be with two days. You look at the total defense, too. After this, it is apparently 90% who apply voluntarily. So it is important to find other ways. But now this is all about proximity. I think the proximity is important, especially when it comes to these places. You can say what you want, but for those who are grown up around Norrbotten and have a girlfriend or wife and family it is easier to stay than for those who come from Gnesta, Söderköping or something like that and are placed on A 9 or I 19. It is in itself very nice and incredibly good regiments, but I think it will be harder to stay, and therefore it is important that you can have this recruitment locally. I will come back to these issues in the next round.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-535	Mr President, I would like to Today, these selection tests are carried out in Kristianstad, Gothenburg and Stockholm. In Luleå, there are, as Lena Asplund says, equipment and also facilities on Norrbotten's raft to implement this. This equipment is now stocked, and the facility in Luleå was used by 2013. It is staffed by staff from Kristianstad and Gothenburg in carrying out these activities. It costs about 200 000 SEK to do this per two weeks period. These are costs based on travel, subsistence and accommodation. It is therefore absolutely right that this equipment is in Norrbotten. I really have nothing against the principled reasoning in this. I believe that decentralisation and proximity to activities can have positive effects, so that is not really what this is all about. On the other hand, I believe that this is primarily an authority's responsibility to clarify. That is the order we normally have. This investigation is important in this context, too, when assessing the future. At present, I do not want to promise either because this investigation is about basic human resources. It is therefore about seeing if we are going to have a system where one can combine a professional organisation with a military service-based activity. If we enter a system where we also activate military service for a part of the Swedish Armed Forces, it becomes a matter of numeraries, and then of course the question of proximity to the boarding station will also come up directly. For my part, I would like to await the findings of the investigation. It has a completely different dimension and weight on this particular point than what Ryding-Ryding-Berg's investigation has, as Lena Asplund rightly says, does not deal with this particular issue. I believe that the situation when Annika Nordgren Ch r istensen has presented this report on 30 September 2016 will be different for the future debate and the future assessments, where this too must be a parameter that is included. We have seen that the current staff supply system has problems with keeping the continuous full-time soldiers to the extent that was planned. There's a lot of drop-off after four or five years. Then, as far as part-time workers are concerned, we have not been able to come up with the numeraries that were intended either. This particular background of reality has led to the fact that this investigation was established as soon as we got there after the change of government, and we want to try an analysis of the Norwegian and Danish systems where you have this combination. That is something of the background to why this part is emphasised in the answer.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-542	Mr President, I would like to The committee visited the Recruiting Authority sometime last autumn. When exactly I don't know. This issue was raised, and we discussed it a bit back and forth. It was then revealed that those who were going to sign up – we can call it that now so that everyone understands what we mean – had to ride trains down to Stockholm. They weren't allowed to fly. It is a bit strange, because today it is actually many times cheap re to fly than to travel by train. They had to get on the train down. Then they got – this is what has been said to me up in Boden and Luleå, and I think so, because it also says on the website of the R ekryteringsagenten – instructions on how to get from the T-Central to the Recruiting Authority. Now we're talking about 18-year-old girls and guys, and some of them may not have been outside Gällivare, Luleå or where they come from. These instructions are given to them:. Take the metro's red line 13 from T-Centralen to Ropsten. Get off at Gärdet and choose the rise Värtahamnen/ Frihamnen. Go out on Värtavägen and turn left towards Värtahamnen. Then take a right onto Tegeluddsvägen, cross the street, follow the walkway through the Finnish Park and the viaduct across the railway track. Then follow the glass passage that takes off to the right. When you enter the building, it is about 100 meters to the Recruiting Authority's entrance into building 4. ..................................................... But hey, not everyone's an orienteer coming down here! I'd say some people get pretty confused. You get a train ticket and this directions in your hand. Some people have never been on the subway in their lives. I'm sure a lot of people have done it, and I'm sure others will be very good at it later. But these are young people. I think my 18-year-old son would have refused. He thought it was really hard in the beginning when he came down to Stockholm. So this is also a problem. It feels square. First you should ride trains from Kiruna or where you come from, and then you stand there and take the red line of the metro. But hey, everybody says, what's the red line of the subway and how do I do this? So there is something to be desired here. The description of how to get out to Gothenburg garrison by tram is also a bit lumpy. This very thing feels like things you might want to look at. Perhaps the Recruiting Authority could look at this before Annika Nordgren Christensen will present her investigation on September 30. Just because the investigation is presented doesn't mean everything will be petted and ready. We agree that it is important to recruit and to be able to recruit staff close to us, especially the Home Guard. For them, it's the proximity. I know there are some problems in the North for the Home Guard. So you have to look at this. Another thing that I also had to tell me up there was that a girl or guy who was down here and patterned heard a little bad and had to go home again and go to the doctor at home. Turns out it was a wax plug. They washed clean, and this person then had to make the same trip by train and get out to Värtahamnen again to check his hearing again. You couldn't do that up there at the defense's occupational health service or anything like that. So it's rigid. Then it may be one of the authorities, the Recruiting Authority or the Swedish Armed Forces, that is rigid. That is perhaps something that can be controlled in regulatory letters.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-549	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if we should include hearing tests, subway rides and so on in the regulation letter. I think we need to put those questions on a slightly different level. I believe that these are things that can be presented directly to the authority, and I think that Lena Asplund could make a contribution by having a conversation with the authority. I myself have been a Member of Parliament and know that it is possible to influence a lot through direct contacts in certain contexts. I may well agree with descriptions that things can be difficult in the world and that there may be brochures and instructions that are not easy to understand. But the question is what is an administrative issue, what is an authority issue and what is a political issue. I do not want to be anywhere near burdening my predecessors Karin Enström and Sten Tolgfors with these things, but this is a matter of authority. It is the same with the organisation of transport and other things. What is at the heart of the debate is the decentralisation of the procedure and the closeness to it. In the situation we are in, I think the best way to move forward on this issue is to make an assessment when we have received the investigation from Annika Nordgren Christensen. Then we may also have decided on a direction for the future supply of personnel, and then we should draw a conclusion from what it will be in relation to the proximity of the boarding points. For my part, I would like to wait a few months before I am prepared to enter that debate in a more detailed manner. Then it is also important to maintain what is responsible for authority and what is political responsibility. It may be that one should try to resolve matters within the framework of the authority. If you notice that it is distorted for various reasons, you must consider whether you should politically get involved in it. Now I think that there are good reasons to wait for political action precisely on the basis of this investigation.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-555	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to conveying things to the authority, we probably did it quite strongly in committee. At least we who come from the northern suburbs to Stockholm and 100 km up, if we say so, said what we think above all about being forced to ride trains and things like that. I agree that this is a matter of authority. But I still think that the question can be raised. It is a good thing to raise a debate here, even on a matter of authority. I am convinced that both the Swedish Armed Forces and the Recruiting Authority are aware that we are having this debate. On the Recruiting Authority's website you can read about where the medical examinations and psychological assessments are made – what we call patterning. It says:中 On behalf of the Swedish Armed Forces, we also carry out trials in Luleå. Then I wonder whether it is the Recruiting Authority that does not go there or whether it is the Armed Forces that does not order them. What's the chicken and what's the egg in this? It's all about the big picture. It feels like the Minister for Defence and I agree that it is important that we recruit and that it is important to also be able to recruit locally, in order to retain the staff. This applies to both K-soldiers and T-soldiers as well as Home Guards and women. This is a challenge that we will have in the future, if it is to be based on volunteering to the greatest extent. The Comitology Directive states that it should be based to the greatest extent on voluntary nature. And if you build it on volunteering in the right way, you may need less duty. As I told you earlier, Denmark has done quite well by having good foresight for volunteering. Then perhaps you don't have to pay that much if that's the way it is.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-560	Mr President, I would like to I have set out the arguments in this discussion and the views of the government. I think that Lena Asplund and I are fundamentally in agreement that many measures need to be taken to improve the functioning of the staff supply system. For that very reason, we have set up this investigation. We will have to come back at a later stage when we have seen what that direction will be.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-563	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to support the construction of a new ferry that will run the route between Umeå and Vaasa. First of all, I would like to point out that a starting point for Swedish transport policy for a long time has been that interregional and international transport should primarily be conducted without state subsidies. TEN-T is the EU's designated transport network, and the CEF is the EU's associated funding programme. Motorway projects are the maritime part of TEN-T and must involve at least two EU countries. Sweden has been a driving force in the development of the Motorways of the Sea concept as TEN-T and CEF are important components for developing and improving different transport routes within the Union. At the beginning of February, the government was able to support the CEF programme's "Midway Alignment of the Bothnian Corridor", phase 2. The planned project includes the development of a new, innovative ferry between Umeå and Vaasa. The deadline for applications to the European Commission was 16 February. It is now up to the Commission to evaluate the applications. The final decision on which transport and infrastructure projects receive co-financing from the Fund is expected at the latest this summer.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-567	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Swedish EU entry has been very positive for a trade-dependent country like Sweden. The benefits it brings to Swedish companies and Swedish employees we talk about far too little in our country. But for ferry services between Umeå and Vaasa it was very negative when the possibility of duty-free sales disappeared, which made continued traffic impossible on market grounds. Historically, there have been relations between Sweden and Finland over Kvarken. It is the narrowest passage in the Baltic Sea, and between our outermost islands it is just over a few miles of land. Both the Swedish and Finnish sides have a high population density on the coast of this area. It lives just under 1 million people within an appropriate distance from both Umeå and Vaasa. At most, well over 1 million people travelled annually between Umeå and Vaasa. It was students, commuters and entertainment travellers, except for the freight traffic that took place in large quantities.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-572	A well-functioning ferry service between Umeå in Sweden and Vaasa in Finland is important for the continued development of Västerbotten and Ostrobothnia as a labour market region, for both large and medium-sized companies in the regions and not least for tourism. During the previous term of office, both the Alliance Government and the Finnish Government gave their approval to the EU application to build a new ferry. Now the first phase is completed, and phase two is about building the ferry itself. The former infrastructure minister of the alliance government was clear that by supporting the application, the state had also committed itself morally to be involved in the future financing of phase two, when the ferry itself was to be built. Sweden and Finland will account for approximately SEK 350 million each to lock this up. In Finland, the Council has promised to cover SEK 250 million, and the regional level has promised to cover SEK 100 million. This seems to me to be a reasonable distribution between the state and regional levels. Mr President, I would like to So far, the Swedish government has not said that it is prepared to contribute a single crown. My question to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson is very simple. How much is this government prepared to invest in building a new ferry to secure traffic across Kvarken?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-576	Mr President, I would like to There are great needs in the infrastructure around our country, not least the cross-border infrastructure. I have taken the initiative for a joint meeting with the Nordic Infrastructure Ministers, or the Transport Ministers – these are slightly different titles – to see what common needs we have and what we might need to do together to further strengthen the links between our Nordic countries. I think it's really a neglected area. Sometimes it is difficult to see the importance of cross-border traffic. However, this is a bit of a different matter because it is an investment in a ferry, that is not in infrastructure but in a vehicle in any sense. Sweden has had a principle that the state does not go in and finance this type of traffic, i.e. not ships. I would like to point out that, after the regional and local levels have co-financed, the Swedish Government has endorsed the next phase of the EU application, i.e. the one submitted in February this year. I would like to ask Edward Riedl an equally simple question. The national plan for the development of transport infrastructure that we are currently living under was decided on in 2014, when the Minister of Infrastructure to which Edward Riedl refers was responsible. Then I wonder: Exactly how many crowns had the then government set aside in the national plan for the Kvarken project? It would be reasonable to have done so if they were going to be there.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-580	Mr President, I would like to If you get a functioning ferry service in place in that part of the country you save a lot on the miljön. In fact, the distance, which today is 500 miles [800 km], is reduced to 100 miles [100 km] if you can use ferry services. I say as I said earlier: The Finnish Government is prepared to raise SEK 250 million. So far, the Swedish Government has not been prepared to raise a single crown. The Minister points out that this is a ferry and that a ferry is a vehicle, Mr President. That's absolutely right. It is usually best to use that type of vehicle on water. We solve traffic in other parts of the country in exactly the same way. Gotland traffic is another example where we will travel over water, and then ferries are good to handle this. I think it is a good thing that the Minister wants to strengthen cross-border traffic, and if you want it, it is reasonable that you are also prepared to put money behind those words. The Minister asked me a question, and I will answer it. The Minister did not answer my question, but I will at least be so polite when a minister asks me a question. In the national plan, there was no money allocated. That is precisely why the Minister said that it was not prepared to spend any money in phase one, which was not done either. They supported the application and said they had committed themselves to a moral obligation for phase two. So it was intended to enter money in the next step. Then we had an election, and then the minister's party, together with another party, won the government power. Now the question is yours and no one else's. I have now answered the Minister's question. Can the Minister answer my question, Mr President? How much money is this government prepared to provide to secure ferry traffic across Kvarken?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-587	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson for her reply. I would also like to thank Edward Riedl, who, in opposition, seems to have been affected by some kind of laziness and now, with new insight, is debating important issues for Västerbotten. It is nice for us from Västerbotten that these important issues are also discussed in the Riksdag. I debated this issue as well as many other important infrastructure issues with Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, the former Minister for Infrastructure. I wondered whether Sweden would ask for any EU co-financing at all. I didn't get an answer at all. So I think it's nice that we've now come a step along the way. The issues of East-West relations have not been at the top of the agenda in Sweden. We have traditionally had North-South connections in front of us as the most important ones. But with relations with our important neighbours Finland, Denmark and Norway, the East-West connections are very important. And over Kvarken, it's a ferry. Now that you've come so far with the project, it's very important that we don't shoot it off before it gets started. For the labour market region and companies in northern Sweden and in both Västerbotten and Ostrobothnia, this connection is very important. I am grateful that the government has announced that it will continue to believe in the project.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-591	Mr President, I would like to This government has chosen not to make any changes to the national plan. And there is no other money for this type of effort, as I am sure Edward Riedl is well aware. I think it is a good thing that we have taken on the responsibility we have done at regional level. Of course, we will try to find other ways to help. In connection with the discussion that preceded this CEF application, one looked at whether there were other named objects in plans that could be used as co-financing, i.e. that one had a road connection or some other named object in a national plan that one could enter as a type of co-financing without going in and financing the ferry itself. Unfortunately, there were no such objects that could be used that way. However, some other things are happening in this region at the moment that are very positive. I was asked how much the government is prepared to do to finance a ferry. We maintain the principle of all governments in the past, that is to say, that we do not subsidise cross-border ferry services at state level. I can inform Edward Riedl that Gotland is part of Sweden and that it is for this reason that the state is subsidising that particular traffic. But we have quite extensive cross-border ferry services between Germany and Sweden, between Estonia and Sweden and between Denmark and Sweden. All of these ferry routes carry themselves entirely on a commercial basis, and there are no State resources. Should a subsidy of this kind be examined from an EU perspective, I suspect that it could run into a patrol. So we are sticking to this principle. On the other hand, we remain prepared to support this by highlighting it as an important project in the EU context and continuing to support the EU applications that are coming. However, I note again that when this issue was raised in 2013, when the first EU application was to be submitted, there was a very clear message from the then government that it signed and accepted this EU application, provided that no State resources would be used. Had it been intended to co-finance later, money would, of course, have been reserved for it in a national plan. The fact that there is not a single crown in the current national plan, which was decided by the previous alliance government, is surely an overly clear sign that that moral responsibility was just a moral responsibility and did not involve any financial obligations whatsoever.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-595	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to make a brief clarification, because the Minister mentioned the Gotland ferry. Of course, I'm not against the Gotland ferry. What I am trying to point out, of course, is that there are more places where ferries can be used, that is, where we have water. That's where they work very well. When the Minister points out that other ferry services are carried on a commercial basis, it may well be worth pointing out that they are carried out because there are duty-free sales, if we look at traffic to and from the Stockholm region. But that is not what we are going to debate. When the EU supports an application, it does not, of course, clash with EU rules if the state is involved in co-financing. But we can have a separate debate on that. I don't think that's much of a concern. I would like to say to both the Minister and Isak From that it was not clear that the Alliance Government would support this application in phase one. There was a lot of work all the way to the end, precisely because you were not prepared to set aside any money in phase one but would have a moral obligation to set aside money in phase two if you agreed to the first. That is what meant that the hearing was actually going on until the day before the application was due. Those are facts. Mr President, I would like to Both the Minister and Isak From are trying to lift this up, and that is classical politics. I have full respect for trying to do that. If you have government power, you are also responsible, but you are not prepared to take it in here. The Minister is prepared to set aside exactly zero crowns and nothing more. That is how I have interpreted the debate. If I have interpreted it in the wrong way, the Minister still has a speech to say something about this. When it comes to Isak From, I understand that it is very embarrassing to come home to Västerbotten after everything you have talked about before the election, when you deliver this thin after the election.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-602	Mr President, I would like to No, I'm not ashamed of anything. We won the election, and we have promised a lot. We will also deliver a lot. Demand is high after eight years of bourgeois government, when nothing was delivered. As Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson points out, we live with bourgeois infrastructure planning. It is only when we review the planning that we can bring in important projects. But then there's a ferry here. It is a large, important business relationship between Ostrobothnia and Västerbotten, on to Norway and on to Russia – it will also be lifted in. I hope that my work with other Members will highlight the potential of East-West relations. We will continue to deliver. Now that we start delivering, even with our own budget, we can seriously make a difference, a difference that is noticeable and important to people.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-604	Mr President, I would like to I think it is sometimes important to be honest in the political debate – preferably always. In this case, there is a principle which this government adheres to, which the former bourgeois government adhered to and which Social Democratic governments previously adhered to, i.e. that the state does not subsidise cross-border ferry services. You might think it's a wise principle or a bad principle. But we have chosen not to deviate from that principle. On the other hand, we are prepared to make other efforts to facilitate and strengthen cross-border traffic. But when it comes to financing a ferry line: it is not as Edward Riedl claims, that duty-free sales continue on all other ferry lines – quite the contrary. I come from Gothenburg, and there was quite a lot of discussion about how Stena would survive when duty-free sales disappeared, to take an example. If you deviate and break a principle in a certain place, you should also be prepared to reconsider the principle elsewhere. The consequence is that this government is not prepared to take. You can have a discussion forward on that. Once again, I note that the decision to support the CEF application was taken in 2013. The reason why it took so long to do so was that the Ministry of Finance was at the time very reluctant to support the CEF application because it was afraid that it would entail future obligations. It was provided that in future no financial resources would be pledged to the ferry that the CEF application was signed. Historic writing has its special place. We think it is a good thing that a CEF application has entered and will continue to support the project as we see fit. But there is no money set aside in the plan, and we do not intend to break the principle that has been in force.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-609	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl has asked me what I think is the reason why the government and the Swedish Transport Administration come up with such different information about the construction start for Norrbotniabanan and whether I intend to work for the government to provide the funds needed to fulfil the election promise to start the construction of the track in no later than two years. The Finnish Transport Agency prioritises its operations on the basis of the current national plan for the development of the transport system, which was decided by the previous government. In it is not Norrbotniabanan. For this government, however, Norrbotniabanan is a strategically important infrastructure effort. The Government intends to carry out the construction of the runway within the framework of the next infrastructure plan. This is about a first stage between Umeå and Dåva. The ambition is that this stage can begin during this term of office, probably in 2018. This obviously presupposes that there is an existing railway plan for the route. The government decided last February to endorse 56 transport projects for further application to the European Commission's Connecting Europe Facility (CEF). The list of projects sent to the EU Commission included design costs linked to the Norrbotnia Line. The project has been granted funding by the EU Commission. Together with funding from the relevant regional transport infrastructure plans, this enabled the Finnish Transport Agency to start work on developing a railway plan for the route in question in autumn 2015. The Swedish Transport Administration's work is done with the focus on enabling a start to construction in 2018. The Government is now in the process of taking a comprehensive approach to the investments in the infrastructure during 2016 in a proposal and the development of the next national plan for the development of the transport system 2018 – 2029. In this connection, the Government intends to specify the implementation of the construction start of Norrbotniabanan.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-611	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Johansson, for your answer! During the election campaign, the Soc Italian Democrats spoke very warmly about Norrbotniabanan, not least in Västerbotten, where I live. The election promise was that the first route, 9 kilometres between Umeå and Dåva industrial area, would be built before the end of 2018. That was a clear promise. Now the European Commission has also granted funding for the railway plan between Umeå and Skellefteå, and the regions concerned have also contributed financially, which is very good. However, despite all the promises made by the Social Democrats about the course in question, there are still some questions that I would like to clarify. My question is also: Does Norrbotniabanan form part of the Swedish construction/prosecution process? In that case, it states that there should be significant external co-financing. What does that mean in money? Or is the investment on Norrbotniabanan outside Sweden's negotiations, and if so, is it still about external co-financing, or does the government and the state take all costs? If any kind of co-financing is required, Norrbotniabanan AB needs a negotiating person to talk to. That is also explicitly stated. There is no one to negotiate with today. Although the government has been hit on by this, nothing is happening. As the Minister said to me in his reply, it is not possible just to wait for the railway plan to be completed. If you are to comply with your election promise, i.e. that the track should start to be built by 2018, it is urgent, and then a negotiating person is needed. My question to the Minister is then: when will this happen? During this year, you will present an infrastructure bill. My question is how much of the total construction of Norrbotniabanan will be included. The railway plan in question, which is currently being developed, covers the route between Umeå and Skellefteå. Then it is important that not only the Dåva Myra stretch is included. There, it will not be able to travel very many travelers, because it is industrial waste that it is about first and foremost. The railway plan also has a final consumption date, in five years' time. For this reason too, it is important to know whether this route will be co-financed by the state or the government. Otherwise, I would say that it is a huge waste of both energy and money spent on investigating something that the government will not allocate funds to.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-618	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Infrastructure, for a clear answer! It was not only the election that we lost in 2006, we in northern Sweden, but we lost a number of important projects, including Norrbotniabanan. Unfortunately, a handshake from Göran Persson was not enough for the bourgeois government to find it interesting to run the project Norrbotniabanan. The design and the work that had been done went into the trash – it must also be carried with it. Then it is grateful that now, after 2014, when we can begin to put things right, we can finally see that the government's clarity also gives results in the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration is now purchasing a railway plan. It is a railway plan that is needed to make a credible assessment of the costs. It is also when a negotiating person is needed, when the route is to be negotiated part by part. I think we can all agree with the importance of upgrading the railways. Confidence in new projects is great, and expectations for new projects around the country are great. Over the past twelve fifteen years, industry has clearly signalled the need for further new railway capacity for northern Sweden, to be willing to invest in new projects. The North Main Line is full. It is also in some places in very bad condition. An important renovation is now underway, but to get a functioning parallel track, Norrbotniabanan is important all the way up to Luleå to get a functioning railway corridor throughout Sweden.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-623	Mr President, I would like to I must first comment on my honourable colleague, Isak From, from the Social Democrats. It is a rather strange view of democracy when you think that Norrland lost a democratic election in 2006. The only thing we know for sure in a democracy is that the voters always win. Then we may have different views on different issues, but voters always win. That is what is so amazing about living in a democracy. I do not really share Isak From's view on this. As far as the second part is concerned, we can speak very much. I understand from tonight's exercises, which are a lot about infrastructure in northern Sweden, which I think is fun, that the Social Democrats in northern Sweden are under a lot of pressure. Much was promised in the election campaign, and what has been delivered so far is increased taxes on petrol and increased taxes on diesel. Air tax is to be introduced, and kilometre tax is to be introduced. There is nothing that one does not intend to tax that does not strike the voters in northern Sweden with surgical precision. It hits the voters in Västerbotten and the voters in Norrbotten. They shall bear all these costs. However, everything that was promised in the form of investments has become very little of it. One of the things you have left to deliver is the Norrbotnia Line. There we are in complete agreement across party boundaries, at least in northern Sweden. Of course, we want this railway in place. So far, however, we have not seen this from the government. We have only seen all the negatives that would be used to finance this positive. There are many questions. That is why this type of debate is a good thing, Mr President. Then we can sort things out in this House. How much money is the government prepared to go in with, for example, and at what rate to build the Norrbotnia Line? How much regional co-financing do you want, and so on? These are questions that Helena Lindahl, my colleague from the Center Party, asked and to which it is perfectly reasonable for the Minister to answer. What's your idea, and what's your plan? Because can't it be that you plan to build 9 kilometers of industrial tracks up to Dåva and call it Norrbotniabanan?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-628	Mr President, I would like to It can only be said that if Helena Lindahl understood that the Social Democrats spoke warmly about Norrbotniabanan before the elections, there was nothing in which we were accompanied by the bourgeois parties. Norrbotniabanan before the 2014 elections was colder than Antarctica on the bourgeois side. But it is fun that you have discovered that there is a Norrbotnia track that is important for northern Sweden and the connections there now after the election. We welcome you into that heat. We have promised that we will start the Norrbotnia Line during this term of office. It is in this direction that we are working. The Finnish Transport Administration will set up a project organisation this year, and we will eventually take a position on a national plan for 2018 – 2029. There is our ambition that Norrbotniabanan should be included, funded in the first section. That is the construction start we have promised during this term of office. We have not promised to complete the entire Norrbotnia railway during the current term of office, but what we have said is that we will start construction during the term of office and then build Umeå – Dåva. That's our election promise. This means, of course, that we see that the entire Norrbotnia Line is important, but there are not as clear promises and not as clear plans. But when it comes to the start of construction, it is planned during the current term of office, and that is the planning conditions we have. There are of course lots of other objects around our country that require funding and that one can argue for from different perspectives. The Swedish negotiation also has a mandate from the previous government to investigate the conditions for railway in the northern part of Sweden, which one could possibly interpret as for example Norrbotniabanan, and what conditions there are for different types of co-financing. However, with regard to the first part, which is our electoral promise, we cannot, of course, have an electoral promise based on the fact that someone else is co-financing where we have not even entered into negotiations. The answer is that the Government's intention is to finance this part with state funding.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-632	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think I can say that the Center Party has been working for decades for a Norrbotnia track. Even when I was a municipal politician in Skellefteå, we debated this hard, and that was ten years ago. I do not think anyone needs to doubt the commitment of the Center Party to this issue. I would therefore like to have said this, because I think it is sad that we should hear Social Democrats beating their chests and saying: it is only we who want a Norrbotnia track. No one else wants it! I think we can put an end to that discussion. In my interpellation I also ask how it is that the Swedish Transport Administration and the Minister come up with such different information about when the Norrbotnia Line will start to be built. It is because the Swedish Transport Administration will go out and say that it will happen in 10 – 13 years, and we have a minister who says something else: It will start before 2018. Of course the voters are starting to think. I have received questions at home because this is something that is most relevant for Västerbotten and Norrbotten. It must be taken seriously, and that is why I think it is important to ask the question. The Government Johansson points out that the reason why Trafikverket, which is also under Johansson's responsibility, does not prioritise Norrbotniabanan is that they are based on the national infrastructure plan, where the track is not included. It is strange that the Finnish Transport Administration seems so alien to what is happening in the outside world, not least in view of the EU's commitment to the European core network, which includes Norrbotniabanan. It's due in 2030. This has been approved by all Member States, including Sweden. Perhaps it is appropriate for the Minister to remind the work of this so that we do not have any confusion in the future. It creates quite a lot of public concern. In the directives given by the Alliance Government to Sweden, now the Swedish negotiation, there were announced efforts for freight traffic in northern Sweden of more than 10 billion. But now the question is whether we in the north will see the smoke of this money at all. Given the cost explosion that we are now seeing in the project Sweden Negotiation one with an investment in high-speed trains in southern Sweden, where the cost from the beginning was 150 billion but is now forecast to 190 – 320 billion, the question is how much money it will be left to other projects. In addition, it remains to be seen whether Sweden's initiatives will be included in the upcoming national infrastructure plan or whether there will be a separate initiative. If costs are allowed to run as they are right now when it comes to fast rail in the south, it will be a problem for the rest of the country, not least when it comes to investing in the Norrbotnia Line. I believe that the Socialist Members of this House are also aware of this. As I said: Since this was such a clear question from the Social Democrats and because we had so many arguments against how little we want to invest in Norrbotniabanan in the media, I look forward to the construction of Norrbotniabanan before 2018. Given that the railway plan is about the route Umeå – Skellefteå, I look forward to that route also being built and included in the upcoming national infrastructure plan. I'm taking it seriously.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-638	Mr President, I would like to Politics is usually about priorities. Together with Börje Hörnlund and Olof Johansson, Göran Persson made a priority: a handshake on the Botnia Line. In the case of large infrastructure projects, broad political majorities that are sustainable over elections are needed. At that time the Botnia track was all the way up to Luleå. Then something happened. We lost the elections in 2006. Then came another majority who made other political choices. This meant that construction ends became Umeå. The long - drawn - up plans that existed for the entire route went to waste. Can we trust the Center Party, Helena Lindahl? Can we trust that we will have a broad political agreement on the issue that holds over terms of office, so that the business community dares to believe in the important investment in infrastructure? Can we have the courage to trust the whole Center Party? I know Helena Lindahl is passionate about the issue and has a great deal of commitment to Norrbotniabanan, but when it comes to priorities will she value the government power with the Moderates and do so? Long-term planning with a stable majority across block boundaries is needed to make the effort work. Is the Center Party willing to take the outstretched hand and make long-term planning?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-641	Mr President, I would like to When the Minister talked about something colder than Antarctica, I thought that she might mean the electricity tax to be imposed on northern Sweden, which means that those who live in a normal villa in Norrland will have to pay SEK 3 000 more for heating. Perhaps that is what the Minister intends. The minister says that the government will pay 9 kilometers out of 270 kilometers from the treasury, if I understood her correctly. The follow-up question is simple: how much cofinancing does the Minister think of the other 261 kilometres of exactly 270 kilometres of railway? This is important for what is happening, which Helena Lindahl from the Center Party made a creditable point. There is an end date on the railway plans that are drawn up before they have to be made again. It would be unnecessary to throw a lot of money into the lake if you do not intend to pursue the plans. Then a reasonable follow-up question to the Minister may be: how much cofinancing is envisaged to bring this to land? Mr President, I would like to I understand that, since the turn of the government, this type of debate is embarrassing for Members of Parliament from northern Sweden. We will see both Isak From and Leif Pettersson with powerful words tell us about all the terrible things that have been and all the good things that will come. But come has been going on for a couple of years. You've been in government. The responsibility is yours to deliver. So far it is a question of increased petrol tax, diesel tax, air tax, kilometre tax and increased electricity tax in Norrland. It is tax increases that strike the voters with precision in northern Sweden. That's what you've delivered so far. I understand that's troubling for you.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-645	Mr President, I would like to Let me travel when the Nobel Prize in Literature is announced: Finally Norrbotniabanan! Now it's real. It was the former one, as Isak From pointed out, but it elected the Center Party and the Moderates in government away. That's it. You chose not to continue building the Norrbotnia Line according to the established plan. The plans still in place, such as large land reserves, are an obstacle to the development of municipalities in northern Sweden – Piteå, Skellefteå and Luleå. Helena Lindahl is passionate about Norrbotniabanan. It's clear. No one's gonna take that away from her. But in the government, she got whit. In the government with the Moderates as the leading party there was no Norrbotniabana. There was no railway at all. There Anders Borg talked about overinvestment in rail. Then that party was over. Edward Riedl, and perhaps even Helena Lindahl, wants to beat his chest and say that they made an EU application and made sure that the Botanical Corridor was included in the TEN-T projects. Sure, you did. But you did not invest a single crown in the realisation of this TEN-T project for which you so valiantly sought money. The model is recognized from the previous debate about Kvarken. It was exactly the same thing. There was an EU application, but there was no money. It is easy to submit applications to others and ask for money, but it is more difficult to set aside money for things that are important and needed in our country. Edward Riedl believes in his inflatedness – I was about to say – that it is troubling for us Social Democrats to discuss Norrbotniabanan or infrastructure investments in northern Sweden. I can tell you that it is not at all. I am very confident that the current government is aware of the problems that exist with the infrastructure in northern Sweden and is prepared to do something about the problems. Now there is an existing infrastructure plan where those investments are not included. It takes some time to produce a new infrastructure bill and a new action plan, but then we are on the trail. It's no bother to me or to Isak From if I interpret his facial expression correctly. Instead, we feel that there is a possibility. This gives us the opportunity to discuss the infrastructure in northern Sweden, to discuss Norrbotniabanan's entire route. Once the route up to Skellefteå has been designed, a new application to the EU will be submitted to establish railway plans for the route between Skellefteå and Luleå. That's it. It will be included in the coming plan. I am absolutely convinced that we will see such a development.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-652	Mr President, I would like to There is order in this country that it is the politicians who decide on the political direction and our authorities who implement the policy on behalf of, in this case, the government. It's a good order. It would be strange if the authorities, such as the Finnish Transport Agency, began to react to signals in the surrounding area and, on their own initiative, redesigned in national planes. I am pleased that the Swedish Transport Administration is responding on the basis of the current national plan. On the other hand, this government will take responsibility for ensuring that the first stage of Norrbotniabanan will be included in the next national plan and will start construction during the current term of office. That is what we have promised, and that is what we intend to do. In the Finnish Transport Administration's orientation paper for the coming period, it is clear, not least as a result of the bourgeois policy of the last eight years, that the consequence has been a hugely neglected maintenance on our railways. There have been far too few investments in education in municipal activities, in infrastructure and in housing. This means that the money available in the next national plan, even if the level of ambition is raised, will not be enough for everything we want. It will mean tough and difficult priorities. The Finnish Transport Agency points out that maintenance and improvements in existing infrastructure will need to be made to a large extent. The space for large new objects will be limited. In addition, the Swedish negotiation, which is of course extremely challenging and difficult. There is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on the need to build the next generation railway in Sweden, not only to build our three major cities but also to create better commuting opportunities and to free up capacity in the existing main railway. The alternative to that is not to do nothing, but the alternative is to take other measures which increase capacity and which also cost money. All in all, then, we have major challenges. Much of this is about the fact that during the last parliamentary term we had a finance minister who quite stubbornly claimed that we had overinvested in the railways in Sweden. I think there are quite a few of us who are prepared to agree that we do not agree with that analysis. The consequences of that attitude we have to live with now.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-657	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I don't often quote Göran Persson, but I'll do it now. I attended a seminar in Skellefteå a few years ago. There Göran Persson said something that was very wise, namely that it is in the same way with infrastructure investments as with electricity. Once upon a time, electricity was drawn into every cabin, whether it was in sparsely populated areas, on a mountaintop or in a densely populated city, because it was a democracy issue. In the same way, the infrastructure – it should exist throughout the country because it is a democracy issue. I think that was a very wise thing to say. It's been following me, and I actually use it. However, I have to say that what concerns me is that a single project, although it is important to use high-speed trains in southern Sweden, should take so much cream from everything else. If it is going to cost up to 300 billion, that is to say that it will take a large part of the infrastructure budget, then that means that the rest of the country will have to share what little remains because it is so. What, then, will there be for infrastructure investments? Then there will not be these democratic investments throughout the country and probably no Norrbotniabana either. I got a clear answer here: What the Social Democrats promise and what both Isak From and Leif Pettersson are so proud of is nine kilometres between Umeå and Dåva Myran. That is what will happen for the next 15 years. My friends! Then it will be 200 years before Norrbotniabanan is built. You can't even be happy with that. Although I know that Isak From and Leif Pettersson are much more perverse about this, I can say that I trust you, but I do not trust your government.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-662	Madam President, I would like You could travester another minister and say a little lightly that the bourgeois have begun to become like eager beavers when it comes to the Norrbotnia Line. Previously, it was, as Anna Johansson characterized the debate, as in Antarctica. It kind of didn't work out. Norrbotniabanan was a non-project when they wanted to discuss it with the former Minister of Infrastructure. She talked about large co-financings from the business community and a lot of things that one might think were taken from Mars. At least things weren't realistic. It is not realistic anywhere in our country that industry should enter and invest in state infrastructure. But it was like the reservation they had to even discuss a course in northern Sweden. No one thought there was any realism in it. That's why this was brought up, in order to get rid of the whole project. But now the sound is different. Now you're on and on, and you want to build. It's great that at least we members from northern Sweden agree that this is a great project. Then I hope that you will bring with you all your parties, both the Moderates and the Center Party – the whole Center Party, not just the North – and that we will bring all of us with us so that we can get the handshake needed for a major infrastructure project. After all, it is a number of billions we intend to spend on such a path.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-666	Madam President, I would like For this government, there are some goals that are a little more important than the others. One is about getting more people to work. That objective is more difficult, but also more important than ever, with the population growth that we have had in the last year. Of course, it is important that the jobs to be created are created throughout the country. In this context, the infrastructure is extremely important for the ability to commute jobs and for companies to establish themselves and to both get their inputs and out of their goods. We are also talking about achieving our climate goals and our environmental objectives. This means that we need to have systems where it becomes a little more expensive to destroy the environment and a little more beneficial to make wise climate choices. It is not something that is optional, but we must go that way. We will take that responsibility. Of course, we still have major challenges ahead of us, but we are now making big investments. We have invested heavily in broadband expansion throughout the country. We have an ambitious and comprehensive rural programme. We have an ambitious and comprehensive forest programme. We are making numerous efforts in the area of support for tourism, small and medium-sized enterprises, innovation and early stage businesses that meet across the country. The aim is to achieve both a necessary transition and create jobs on fair terms and with a salary that you can live on. In this perspective too, Norrbotniabanan is an important issue. Of course, we would not have talked about Norrbotniabanan if we did not have an ambition to continue building after Dåva. On the other hand, we have not promised at what pace the expansion will take place. There's an important difference. We have promised the first stage, and we will deliver it. We have not promised what the future will be. But our ambition is quite clear.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-673	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether I believe that the amendment to the Transport Agency's regulation letter, which makes investments in the Western Swedish package to be financed by loans rather than by income from congestion tax, will live up to the agreement made by the state with the other contracting parties. In addition, Lars Hjälmered has asked how much extra cost is estimated to arise from the fact that the funding of the Western Swedish package is made with loans rather than with revenues from the congestion tax. Furthermore, Lars Hjälmered has asked which party should pay the extra costs arising from the financing of the Western Swedish package being made with loans rather than with revenues from congestion tax. Finally, Lars Hjälmered has asked if I make the assessment that Gothenburg will have congestion tax longer and/or with a higher fee to finance the additional costs arising from the financing of the Western Swedish package being made with loans rather than with revenues from congestion tax. The amendment of the regulation letter that opens for loan financing, among other things, the Western Swedish package does not mean that the government takes decisions that are contrary to decisions taken by parliament. During the autumn, the Government has closely followed the development of expenditure, which last autumn showed that expenditure on migration in particular is expected to increase significantly in 2016 compared to when the budget bill was drawn up. In order to avoid hitting the expenditure ceiling and to safeguard welfare activities, the government announced at the end of 2015 a number of measures with expenditure-restrictive effects. According to the Budget Act, the Government is obliged to take measures to avoid exceeding the ceiling. One of the measures concerning 2016 means that the planned funding of the investments in the Stockholm region and the West Swedish infrastructure package of SEK 1.5 billion will be temporarily financed with loans. The measure is without prejudice to the commitment of the State in the Western Swedish package. The State contributes its share of the costs according to the agreement signed between the parties concerned. The increase in borrowings in 2016 leads to marginally increased interest costs. It is currently difficult to predict the size of any additional costs as these will depend on future interest rate developments. The interest rate has been lower for a period, which affects the amount of any additional costs incurred in taking up these loans. Given today's assessments, any additional costs will not be charged to the traffic tax appropriations but will be financed from 1:1 Development of the State's transport infrastructure. The measure will not delay work on the infrastructure projects concerned, nor will it affect the State's commitments. The revenue from the congestion tax in Gothenburg may, according to the purpose of the grant, only be used for expenditure on investments in public transport, rail and road in Gothenburg. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the increased loan financing in the near future will have no impact on future congestion tax charges in Gothenburg – this because additional costs will be financed from another grant and not from future congestion tax revenues.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-680	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. West Sweden and Gothenburg are a growing region. We are much of a logistical and industrial hub in Sweden, although there are other ones as well. The port of Gothenburg is large and important. Both for the port's sake and for its importance as a hub for the whole of Sweden and the Nordic region when it comes to getting in and out goods as well as to get a functioning work commuting requires proper and substantial investments in infrastructure. This was one of the reasons why a number of years ago agreements were concluded on the Western Swedish package between a number of parties. It was the state together with a number of local and regional actors. The package contains a number of important initiatives, such as a new connection under the Göta River and a compensation for the Götaälv bridge. There are a number of parties that share the funding, such as the Municipality of Gothenburg and the Halland Region. The state contributes about half of the cost, and a very large part is the congestion tax, which motorists and other drivers pay when they pass into and through Gothenburg. Over the years, there have been some discussions. In the past we have discussed the so-called Backa exception, with a very special situation in a part of Gothenburg, which we will certainly have reason to come back to. It has been about foreign vehicles and of course also this with state funding – borrowing money instead of using the proceeds directly, as has been done in the past and as has actually been stipulated in the agreement. This action by the government has created quite unnecessary uncertainty in the discussion. The city of Gothenburg has been surprised by the announcement that it should borrow, and it has asked whether it is in accordance with the agreement. One wonders what the state wants and why it has not been informed about this. It has also raised a number of questions: How much is the extra cost of borrowing? Who's gonna pay for it? Does it affect construction, etc.? The reason for my interpellation was that I wanted clarification. In this respect, I welcome some of the response from the Government, which I think is dissolving and clarifying on several important points. It is made clear that it is not the Gothenburgers who drive a car who are supposed to pay an extra cost, but the state is taking this. It's important. Then there are differences of opinion as to whether this is in accordance with the agreement. That's for others to decide. I also think that the Government is clear that this is a form of budgetary tanglement. I thought I'd leave that discussion behind. However, there are a number of outstanding issues in this that I wanted to dwell on. The Government writes in its reply that money is borrowed when the interest rate is low, which gives a very small cost. Someone's going to pay that cost. It's a government grant. Then my question is: will the government continue to do this even after 2016, i.e. during the financial year 2017 and beyond? There is a memo from Trafikverket where it has been calculated that if you do so for an eternal period, this would give an additional cost of about 1 billion. Now this is not the case, but the question is still: what total cost does the government count on in this connection? I would like an answer to that question.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-688	Madam President, I would like As my esteemed colleague Lars Hjälmered so well put it, the Western Swedish package is extremely important. It is an investment that is absolutely invaluable for Gothenburgers, West Sweden and the whole of Sweden. This package must be protected and nurtured. In the light of what the Minister for Infrastructure has now shown, I am concerned that the package is not being cared for. I would like the Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson to give us better answers than those she has given in her reply to Lars Helmered. I am therefore very grateful that this discussion has come up. There has been a big discussion about the congestion tax, not only in Gothenburg but throughout West Sweden. It is important that we care for and protect the agreement in which the state is an important participant. Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson said in her introduction that she and the government have not violated the parliamentary decision. However, one of the parties, the City of Gothenburg, considers that the agreement with Gothenburg has been breached. I think it is important that this does not go out on anyone else. Now the Minister for Infrastructure says it shouldn't go out on anyone else. However, I would like to refer to the principled approach, namely that if an agreement has been concluded, that is what must apply. You can't trix on it during the journey, but you have to be able to trust each other as a contractual partner. The Minister for Infrastructure says that this should not affect the Western Swedish package or the Gothenburgers. But who will it happen then? What other projects will need to be cancelled or delayed? It would be good if we were to have an answer about who will be affected. Maybe it's Norrbotniabanan, who's been discussed here before. What do I know? This is a very important issue of trust. The Minister for Infrastructure said in the previous debate that this is colder than Antarctica. That's what she said. I can give another example of something that is colder than Antarctica and that Anna Johansson has had a very active part in, namely the so-called Backa exception. The congestion tax contains a big mistake when it comes to the part of Gothenburg called Backa. The Alliance government made it clear that from 1 January 2015 the Backa exemption would be realised, i.e. that those living in Backa would have a relief in terms of congestion tax. This is over a year ago. The back exception is colder than Antarctica today, or, as Leif Pettersson put it: It is further away than Mars. I would like answers from the Minister for Infrastructure about when we can see the Backa exception implemented. It's time. It's a trust business we work in. We need to know more about the congestion tax and the budgetary bullying, but also whether you will realise the Backa exemption.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-697	Madam President, I would like Of course, the importance of this package coming into being and of the various items included in it being extremely central. It is about improving the opportunities for freight transport to and from the port of Gothenburg, which is crucial for the entire Swedish export industry, and about the opportunities to start new businesses and create new jobs in western Götaland. And it is above all about the possibility for Gothenburg as a city and the Gothenburg region to grow with new homes, new jobs and a functioning commuting. Compared to other major cities, Gothenburg has poorer infrastructure and public transport. These initiatives, not least the West Link, which will offer great opportunities for train traffic to and from Gothenburg Central and commuter trains, are crucial. Therefore, the government will of course cherish the agreement that exists between the parties to this project. Västra Götaland is one of the parties. The municipality of Gothenburg is one. The Halland region is another, and then of course it is the state. That is an important principle. Unlike Stockholm, where there was no such agreement, there is an agreement that the proceeds from the congestion tax should be used for investments in this geographical area. This is, of course, an extremely important principle, also in order to maintain legitimacy over the levying of congestion taxes in view of the way that discussion has been. On the other hand, it is not, of course, decisive for the credibility of the project or for the progress from exactly which account this money is taken. What is important is that the State is responsible for its part of the commitment, i.e. that the amount of the congestion taxes must be paid by the State. In that part there is no doubt whatsoever. The state stands by its part of the agreement and will continue to do so. I find it very interesting when Cecilia Magnusson raises the issue of the Backa derogation. In October 2014, I became Minister of Infrastructure. If the former alliance government had intended to introduce an exception on 1 January 2015, it is very strange that there was nothing prepared for it at the Ministry of Finance when I took office in October 2014. It would have been a record-fast process if it were to be investigated, referred to the Council of Law, processed in parliament and also introduced a new system from 1 January 2015 when it was not prepared in October 2014.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-702	Madam President, I would like I'll tell you a little bit about the Back-Exemption. You can divide how much was prepared and not. We can only note that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson was in the election campaign and was incredibly clear with an election promise on the part of the Social Democrats. So it is not in place, and we are writing now in 2016. This creates uncertainty about important investments in Gothenburg. This is about the credibility of the Western Swedish package. It's an uncertainty for nothing. Then we come to the financing and budget bullying. There, the Minister for Infrastructure is clear that it is precisely a budgetary tangle. There are increased costs of migration, sick leave, etc. In order to get some order in the economy, you needed to trix. It is good that it is clear in that part. I also asked my questions to get a fairly clear promise from the Minister that as a Gothenburger I should not take an extra cost. In that part, I think it is good that there is a clear message. It is therefore not the other contracting parties that are to enter into this. However, in this debate, Madam President, there are at least two questions. Why have the government and the Finnish Transport Administration not informed the other contracting parties that they would be doing this budget thing? It is rather strange with the surprise we could see in local party colleagues, broadly political, about the question: Why is one acting in such a way? Then there is the economic question, Madam President, which I put in the previous speech and which I would like to repeat. The Government of Johansson says: Now it is low interest. It doesn't cost a lot of money. But then my question is: how much extra costs does it bring? We know that Trafikverket has left a memorandum to the Ministry of Finance where they have said that would be done during the entire contract period it is about an additional cost of approximately SEK 1 billion for the state. Now this is not the case, but the fact remains. Will the government continue to do this also in the second financial year after 2016? It would be a fairly simple question for the Minister for Infrastructure to answer: Is this considered or not? What are the annual additional costs for us as taxpayers? When you trix this way, it's not like it doesn't give you a cost or someone else pays. It is always Sweden's taxpayers who have to pay for the kind of actions that the government is doing, as in the case of this type of trixing. Then I think it would be responsible and decent if the Minister could answer: what extra cost does it give when the government gets on in this way? Will this coat also be used in the next financial year? Again, why have the other contracting parties not been informed that this would be done? That is something that could have avoided quite a lot of the uncertainty we have seen in this matter.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-708	Madam President, I would like I am a little saddened when the Minister for Infrastructure refuses to answer the questions we have asked and made very clear. It goes without saying that it is extremely important – I am pleased that the Minister for Infrastructure says so – that the Western Swedish package will be implemented. It is important, however, that we do so in accordance with the agreement we have reached. The Minister for Infrastructure refused to take the floor in his mouth. She called it an agreement. An agreement is more important than an agreement. I would appreciate it if the Minister for Infrastructure in this House could guarantee that the state will stand by the agreement we have. I also asked the question: what other projects will be affected by the fact that the costs incurred will be borne by someone else for the loans they have to finance the Western Swedish package? Anna Johansson! When will you realise the Backa Exception? On several issues and interpellations, the Minister for Infrastructure has said: we are dealing with this with urgency. This has soon been done for three quarters of a year. When's the hurry? When can Backa residents get their exemption from the congestion tax?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-712	Madam President, I would like I can refer once again to the agreement that exists, because I have used that expression on several occasions. I got four questions in the interpellation from Lars Helmered. Actually, I've answered all four of them. If we are going to get anywhere in such a discussion, it is good if we also listen to each other. Then it'll be a lot easier. The state stands by its part of the agreement, its part of the agreement. The amount received from congestion taxes should also be used in the Western Swedish package. Then there is another funding for that money. But what is important for the Gothenburgers is, of course, that the projects covered here continue according to plan and that the state maintains its part of the agreement. This money stands for the state, because the congestion tax is a government tax that enters the treasury. As far as the public purse is concerned, it is not the case that the money, like the money, runs into various pipes and then stays there, but a budget is a whole. You could ask a question back. We ended up in a situation where the heavy migratory flows that we saw at the end of last year led to large increases in costs for the state. Do the Moderates believe that it would have been better not to pay the additional funds to municipalities and county councils to cope with the additional costs incurred? That was the choice they made. It was about cutting back on other things or dealing with issues in a different way so as not to have to do that kind of downsizing or say to the municipalities: Now you have to do this best you can. The government chose to provide funds for municipalities and county councils to meet the difficult task they faced. I have no problem standing for that. But we also stand up for the agreement. With election promises, you have four years to deliver. So far, it has not even been a year and a half since the government took office. We've already delivered for most of it. Either we're done with delivery or we've started delivery for almost all the election promises we made. And we still have two and a half years. You need not be concerned that we will not deliver on our election promise. We will. But I still find what I mentioned earlier interesting. If the previous government had planned to introduce the Backa exception from 1 January 2015, as Cecilia Magnusson claims, I wonder: Why was there nothing prepared in the Ministry of Finance when Magdalena Andersson stepped in there in October? It would have gone a lot faster then. There was nothing. She had to start from the beginning. There was nothing sent to the Law Council. This is a legislative change, because the whole congestion tax is a law. We continue to work on this issue quickly and will deliver on this election promise as well. You can be absolutely sure of that.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-720	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the question of municipalities and county councils, an agreement was first concluded between the government and a number of parties on migration, and additional resources in municipalities and county councils were thus part of it. Let us leave that discussion and come back to the main issue of congestion tax. The Minister for Infrastructure just said: Lars Helmered asked four questions that I have answered. I can only note that my second question, Madam President, was this: how much extra cost does the Government estimate will arise from the fact that the funding of the Western Swedish package is made with loans rather than with the proceeds of the congestion tax? We have not yet heard an answer to that question. The Minister says the interest rate is low now, so the cost should, I suppose, be lower than if it is a higher interest rate. Then, for a third time, I would like to reiterate the question: how much extra cost in kroner or millions of kroner does the Minister expect this abrogation, the budgetary brittleness, to give rise to that which lands on the development budget of the state budget? I guess that's a pretty simple question to answer. The second question is: Does the government envisage continuing this type of loan financing with regard to the Western Swedish package and the Stockholm Accord, not only in 2016 but also in the coming years? Then you can put the costs on each other so that there is a rather considerable cost that will reasonably print out something else. You could say that the interest rate is low and that there are not so huge costs, but everything else equal generates an extra cost, and left for the minister to answer is: How much is this extra cost? We will take it a third time and the Minister will have a third chance to answer this.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-726	Madam President, I would like As I said, I have already answered all four questions. When it comes to the question that Lars Helmered raises in his last post here was the answer that there should be a rather small cost, but exactly how big or small we do not know because we have not received that estimate yet. This government will decide on each year's budget in October. We intend to do so this year too, that is to say, make proposals on the 2017 budget to Parliament in the autumn of this year. This means that what we intend to do in the financial year 2017 has, of course, not yet taken a position on. I do not think that is unique to this government, but it is a rather common order to make decisions in that way. As to why the other parties were not informed, it was the case that in December last year Magdalena Andersson presented in a debate article the measures taken by the government to get below the expenditure ceiling without burdening municipalities and county councils. I interpret Lars Hjälmered's answer in his speeches here as saying that the Moderates would have preferred a tightening up of the local government sector rather than solving the problems in this way, and that is also a message. The reason why it was not further informed was that it was assessed by the Government and the Finnish Transport Administration that this was not a measure that affected the integrity of the contract. That's why there was no reason. The Government remains committed to the agreement. The money that the state has said it should contribute will be provided by the state. So there is nothing fundamentally affecting the agreement. That is why it was not further informed. However, the data were available last December.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-731	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what I am doing to promote the expansion of public transport to Bromma airport. Initially, I want to make it clear that the responsibility for public transport to Bromma airport lies at Stockholm County Council, which is the regional public transport authority. The state co-finances via the current county plan, such as Tvärbanans Kistagren, which could provide public transport to Bromma airport, and I can only regret that it has been postponed on several occasions. In order to achieve an efficient and modern transport system related to urban development, the Government has decided on so-called urban development agreements – support for investments in facilities and/or new transport solutions for public transport. In addition, within the framework of the so-called Swedish negotiation, work is ongoing to increase housing construction in large cities with cost-effective public transport measures. These efforts assess the government as a whole provides good support for the development of public transport in our major cities. However, responsibility for the concrete planning of public transport objects remains at regional level.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-735	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sometimes Bromma airport is discussed as if it were just a matter for Stockholm. In my opinion, nothing could be more wrong. Bromma airport is the whole of Sweden's airport. We who live in different parts of our elongated country need good communications to and from our capital just as much as all those who live in Stockholm. Actually, it's everybody's airport it's all about. When the new S- and MP government took office after the 2014 elections, it was clear at an early stage that the new government wanted to close Bromma airport. A negotiator was appointed with that particular task, despite the fact that a majority of the Riksdag was against the government's plans. It took just over a year and several announcements and KU notifications before the government announced before Christmas last year that it did not intend to pursue the plans it had, at least not at present, as we can interpret it. When the Minister in his reply wants to allow you who listen to believe that it is the Alliance in Stockholm County Council that is responsible for the delay of Tvärbanan, it is simply wrong. Cross-banana Kistagren, which could provide public transport to Bromma airport with rail services, has been delayed because the government in which Anna Johansson is a minister has created uncertainty about Bromma airport's existence. Madam President, I would like Is the Minister now in favour of taking a tram to Bromma airport so that we get a rail-bound public transport service to this airport in our capital city?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-739	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Edward Riedl for raising the issue of public transport in the Stockholm region. The question of Tvärbanans Kistagren is a question that has been harrowed for a long time. I myself have been a politician at Stockholm City Hall. I was vice-chairman of the City Planning Board between 2006 and 2010. At that time, we were not the least concerned with this issue, and the start of traffic was planned for 2016. I can say that it was long before the present government had taken office. Some things have happened along the way. From the start of the construction project in 2014, we still have no implementing decision. Edward Riedl is trying to assert, Madam President, that it would be the fault of the current government that the implementing decision was not taken, but nothing could be more wrong. In fact, it is a question of having a moderate-led county council that is in its third term of office and has still not managed to keep the economy in check. The basis for last year's budget lacked 2 billion in the investment budget, and then something had to be cut. It was among other things Tvärbanans Kistagren who had to wait, this despite the fact that Stockholm County Council has had the highest county tax throughout this period. In other words, we are not low-taxed, but rather that we have a county council that is unable to hold on to the money or to make the priorities needed for the Stockholm region to develop. It is therefore the funding that is lacking, nothing else. It has nothing to do with Bromma airport. In fact, Tvärbanans Kistagren is about the need for a good public transport service to one of the country's most important business centres, namely Kista, and about connecting it with other public transport in a good and smart way. The airport is, in fact, completely immaterial in this context, but it is clear that it would be appropriate for rail transport there. If the airport were not there, at least 30,000 homes could be built. There would also be a need for rail public transport. So that question is irrelevant. In this context, the airport is not important and has nothing to do with this runway. Madam President, I would like I don't want to tell the truth, because that's what it's really about. On the other hand, this is an urgent project, and I am delighted that Edward Riedl is involved in the issues of the need for public transport initiatives in the Stockholm region. I hope that you will continue to do so and that you will help to tell your party colleagues in Stockholm County Council how important this initiative is. Not least, I look forward to Edward Riedl's and Moderate's priorities in the state economy in the future and their priorities regarding public transport in Stockholm County Council. We Stockholmers need absolutely all the traction help we can get.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-748	Madam President, I would like A lot to hear, I was about to say. I can only note that in the national plan, which we have discussed here today, there are in fact funds allocated, a total of SEK 591 million, for the co-financing of Tvärbanan, which we are discussing here today. It is interesting in this context that either the moderate-led regime in Stockholm County Council was psychic or also had the previous majority of Stockholm City Hall concerns about Bromma Airport. Already in March 2013, it took two years to postpone the start of construction. It was an official proposal because officials had discovered that the money was not enough for what they had planned. S ocial democrats in the county council were critical that the costs of Tramway City and Roslagsbanan had pulled away in a way so that the money was not enough to Tvärbanan n Kista. It is strange that this happened a year and a half before this government took office. If it was a crystal ball man had that time that made it possible to figure out that the future government might have views on Bromma airport or if the moderate-led management in Stockholm County Council simply has not been able to hold the money and fulfil their commitments to the Stockholms, one can think about. I know what I believe in this matter.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-751	Madam President, I would like My colleague in the Transport Committee, Teres Lindberg, a social democrat from Stockholm, I will also say that everyone has understood this if it did not appear from her previous speech, is pleased that I, who come from Västerbotten in Norrland, am in favour of infrastructure in Stockholm. Possibly it's understood that I shouldn't really care about it. My point is that Bromma airport is the whole of Sweden's airport. I note in Teres Lindberg's speech that she does not really see it that way, but thinks that the airport is immaterial and that she would rather build housing there. That's how I interpret her. The point of my first post was that this government has created uncertainty about Bromma airport's future. Despite promises before the election that you would not touch Bromma Airport, close airports or introduce air taxes and so on – there are only a few in the series of broken electoral promises – you created uncertainty as soon as you entered government. Uncertainty has been created about the future of the airport, and in this situation it is difficult to build rail services to provide public transport for the area, and there will be delays. That's exactly what I was talking about. I am not asking the Minister whether she is in favour of rail services to Bromma airport to be insolent, Madam President, but I am asking that because, before Christmas, this airport was to be closed down. That is why my question remains to the Minister – she answered a lot of other things but not just that – if she wants rail traffic to Bromma airport. Yes or no! It's a simple question. Or does she have the same opinion as her party colleague that Bromma airport is immaterial?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-755	Madam President, I would like It is true that Edward Riedl and I may not have the same attitude towards Bromma airport. But it has nothing to do with the airport's being, but with completely different things to do, not least with Stockholm as the country's growth engine and with the need for housing in the Stockholm region. That's my attitude. But it has nothing to do with Tvärban's attraction – the airport or my attitude towards Bromma's flight, or yours for that matter – but it has to do with Kista's workplace establishment and the relationship with the rest of Stockholm County. That is the central issue here. But the airport is there, and then it is clear that you should use it when drawing rail traffic. What Edward Riedl was trying to say, Madam President, is that this would somehow have to do with the airport's being or not being or with any investigation. That can't be more wrong. I also know that Edward Riedl himself flies through Bromma. If he looks around when he leaves for Stockholm, he sees that a concrete bridge is being cast at the entrance. That's where Tvärbanan will go eventually. The casting of this bridge has been poached before the start of construction is even decided precisely because there is also a large shopping mall there that needs to be expanded. There is a risk that your friends in the county council will push this even further so that the Stockholms are there with a 340 meter long concrete bridge that no one can use for the simple reason that if Tvärban is drawn and if you do not back out it would be too expensive to have to enter a shopping centre and draw a bridge afterwards. Madam President, I would like I very much hope that Edward Riedl will help us here to make the necessary decisions.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-760	Madam President, I would like Crossroad Kista started to be planned in 2009. Construction was planned for 2016 until March 2013. In March 2013, a statement was made that the money was not enough, which is why the start of construction was postponed until 2018. It therefore has nothing to do with the government's possible approach to Bromma airport. In addition, if Bromma airport were to disappear now or at some point in the future, this rail link would not be unnecessary or superfluous. If housing were to be established in this area, this construction would also have to be supplied with public transport. Trying to blame the late start of construction of this road on the government is a long shot, to be nice. I think it's great with extended public transport. Therefore, the government also spends a lot of money, 500 million a year, on the urban environment agreements to strengthen municipalities' efforts. However, the regional public transport authorities are still responsible for the development of public transport and for the development of plans. The state can sometimes co-finance. There is government money in the national plan for this particular project, and this government has not changed. The money is there, from the state side. But the county council has not been able to deliver. This interpellation may not be put in this very hall but rather to the ruling majority in the Stockholm County Council there. They are the ones who have not fulfilled their commitment. This government stands by what is included in national planes. That money is set aside, exactly as planned. But the moderate-led regime in Stockholm County does not deliver. That's the problem. And I can't take responsibility for that.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-766	Madam President, I would like As I said in my first speech, the current government has created enormous uncertainty about the future of Bromma airport. Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised that they would not touch it. Aviation taxes and the like would not be introduced. After the elections, they sat in government with the Green Party, and all of a sudden they want to introduce air taxes and close airports like Bromma. It creates enormous uncertainty around our elongated country. Anyone who has listened to the debate can quite clearly follow the perspective of the Social Democrats. This applies not least to the Social Democrats in Stockholm; Bromma airport is their question and nobody else's. It is about trading out in Kista, at the shopping centre there, rather than the whole of Sweden's right to its capital, to good communications with its capital. That is what the question was about: the right of the whole of Sweden to come to and from the capital. Madam President, I would like I've asked the minister if she wants to build a tram to Bromma Airport. I do not know whether my question is unclear or whether it is particularly complicated. But the Minister has chosen to avoid answering precisely that question with precision. I've only asked for a simple yes or no. Are you for or against building a tram to Bromma Airport? It should be easy to answer. Is it that way that Anna Johansson, like party colleague Teres Lindberg, thinks Bromma airport is insignificant? The view of social democracy on Bromma airport is perhaps that it is an insignificant airport.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-770	Madam President, I would like As I said in a previous post, public transport expansion and public transport plans are not a state responsibility. That's why I'm not supposed to answer if I want a tram to Bromma Airport or not. This question must be asked in the Stockholm County Council. On the other hand, I replied quite clearly that I think it is a good idea to develop public transport, in the big cities and in cities at all. That's why the government is also shooting at money. We even think that public transport in rural areas is a good thing and we also spend money on it. It would be interesting to continue the discussion as to how Edward Riedl thinks the issue should have been resolved. Does he really think that the government should pay 100 percent public transport to this particular airport? What does he really want me to answer? I've answered the question. The money in government co-financing remains. It is not the government that is responsible for the answer to this question. It's Stockholm County Council. Already in March 2013, the construction start was postponed until 2018, from planned to 2016. Because I can't take any responsibility for that. On the other hand, there are others who should take responsibility for it. This extension and other extensions of public transport, in Stockholm and other parts of the country, are extremely important for us to be able to have increased housing construction and for people to commute. The government stands up for itself. I hope we have parties around the country who can stand up for themselves.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-776	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what I am doing to prevent a plane crash caused by a drone from happening. Let me begin by stating that since 2009, Sweden has had regulations governing, among other things, the construction and operation of unmanned aircraft below 150 kg. In addition, the Aviation Act applies to all types of aircraft, including so-called drones. In the case of flights in the vicinity of airports, the area is a mile around an airport basically controlled airspace. The basic requirement in a controlled airspace is that drones may only be used in confined airspace. This means that flights with drones today, regardless of the size of the craft, must not be mixed with manned aircraft. If you are to fly in a control zone, you must have permission from air traffic control. It is extremely important for drone users to know and comply with existing regulations. The Swedish Transport Agency disseminates information about what applies, for example through its website, contact with toy stores and the flairs Fly safely with your drone, to increase knowledge among users. The Agency also conducts a dialogue with the operator association UAS Sweden about the events that have taken place and how to improve aviation safety. However, I can also note that technological developments, together with the increased use of drones and the incidents in the vicinity of airports mentioned by Edward Riedl, call for a review of the regulatory framework. Moreover, the fact that we have different national rules within the EU is not desirable, whether from a user or a manufacturer's perspective. The Government Office and the relevant authorities are therefore actively working on drones, not least in the ongoing development of a new European aviation safety regulatory framework. The proposals under discussion contain a number of interesting ideas on how to improve the safety of drones. Among other things, various knowledge requirements and registration requirements are discussed in order to identify the craft. The Government welcomes the development of an EU-wide regulatory framework for drones and considers it essential that such a framework be put in place in the near future. The Swedish Transport Agency is also considering whether and how their current regulations for drones need to be modernised and adapted to future EU rules. Dialogue is also ongoing with air navigation service providers in Sweden, including the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, on flight with drones in control zones. Finally, I would like to emphasise that drones also have many positive uses. Great potential exists both for service providers and for the Swedish manufacturing industry. It is important that we have regulations that keep pace with the development and promote the use of new innovative technologies. However, these developments also raise important issues such as privacy, safety and the use of airspace, which must be addressed. This is something the government and the relevant authorities work with, both nationally and internationally.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-784	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the reply she has given. Technological developments in the field of drones are taking place very quickly. With increased capacity and increasingly lower costs, the technology becomes possible for more and more people to use. I share the Minister's fundamentally positive attitude towards developments in this area. Today we can only imagine what this technology will be used for in the future. As the drones become more numerous and given that laws and regulations are not adapted for this, however, there is reason to review the area. In 2015, 35 incidents of unauthorised flight with drones were reported near our major airports. Each individual case results in best cases to flight delays and financial damage to companies and individuals. But at worst, it could lead to an airplane accident. Not least the heavier drones can cause great damage to our passenger aircraft, which are not built to collide at high speed with heavy objects in the air. Madam President, I would like Today, air passengers are in unnecessary danger of life as it is perfectly possible to start legislating and implementing regulations already today. I share the Minister's view that common regulations within Easa are good. Aviation benefits from the fact that many countries find common regulations. I am certainly not opposed to it. However, these proposals are two to three years away, and they are unlikely to solve all the challenges in this area. Two to three years too long, because we have problems here and today and because passengers are exposed to risks that we should be able to deal with. Not starting work on legislation already poses risks to air traffic and risks the positive development of drone applications. It is hampered when uncertainty arises about future regulatory frameworks. Madam President, I would like I hope the Minister sees the need to take action now. My question to the Minister is whether I am right to interpret her answer in the way that she is prepared to go before Easa, so that we are already looking at regulations here and now to tighten up aviation safety.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-792	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by being very clear about the existence of regulations. It is not permitted to fly with drones in controlled airspace, i.e. airspace around airports. The problem in this case is as soon as possible that the existing regulatory framework is not being complied with. It is in turn, I think, very much about the person who owns a drone not being careful enough to find out what is going on, that is, that you need to have permission to fly in control of the airspace and that you co-operate on the same airspace as all the other aircraft and are controlled by the air traffic control. Therefore, there is also extensive information work on the part of the Swedish Transport Agency to inform about the regulations that apply. In parallel, internal work is ongoing within the Swedish Transport Agency to review regulations and also work within the Government Office and the Swedish Transport Agency to be at EU and international level. As I have said in a number of previous debates on this issue, we think it would be unfortunate if Sweden took a decision on the regulatory framework which then does not harmonise at all with the future regulatory framework within the EU. We believe that it is important, both for the predictability of drone manufacturers and to be able to provide good information to those who buy drones that it is the same regulatory framework that applies. That is why we believe it is wise to wait until the EU has new rules in place. In the meantime, of course, one can look at the regulations that exist, as the Swedish Transport Agency does, but introducing a completely new legislation or making very substantial changes to the existing rule would be unfortunate. This would give rise to a great deal of uncertainty as to what applies in this area. That would create even bigger problems, we think. As I said, it is not that this is a rule-free area and that you have the right to perform drones wherever you want. In controlled airspace around airports it is already illegal to use drones. If we had more stringent legislation and more stringent regulations on this, it is still far from certain that these situations would not arise. Just as in other traffic situations, people violate the rules that exist. It is a little different from the fact that the regulations are not in place. In this case, there are rules. If they are not followed, you need to work with follow-up and information, and that happens.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-796	Madam President, I would like What the Minister says is true – there are, of course, regulations already in place today. There is also a relatively good understanding of the regulatory framework of very many users in controlled airspace. But technology has come a long way. Today it is possible to look at various channels on the internet where you can see how drones fly in the middle of Stockholm. It is outside the approach zone but where passenger aircraft move, i.e. beyond the control zone. Today, it is no problem to send up a drone that weighs relatively far over 1 000 metres. Passenger traffic is put at enormous risk in doing this. There are many gaps in the legislation we have. Moreover, there is no possibility of dealing with different types of infringements. Other countries are looking at ways to neutralize drones in terms of terrorism and illegal air operations in controlled airspace. So there is a lot that needs to be done, and we obviously need to do a lot more than what has been done so far. Easa's work is great, but we won't get all the answers there. We know to a large extent where we are going with that regulatory framework, so if we wanted to, it would be possible to take a great deal of action. I welcome, like the Minister, the fact that the Transport Agency is reviewing the work that is taking place. But there is also a need for political support. Perhaps some legislation also needs to be reviewed in this area. This development goes so fast that if we wait another three years before implementing legislation and doing something concrete, there is an imminent risk of a breakdown in our country. We can never accept that, neither the Minister nor I. Therefore, I believe that there are good opportunities, if you want, to set up an investigation or do similar political work on the part of the government to deal with these issues, which needs to be done here and now. These incidents are happening all the time around our country. People are exposed to completely unnecessary risks, especially in large airports. I cannot interpret the Minister's reply differently from the fact that she thinks that the work of the Transport Agency is enough and that the government otherwise intends to wait for the work that is being done within the framework of Easa on the harmonisation of the regulatory framework, which I agree with, is good and important. This can range from type approval of drones to safety equipment. What happens when the battery runs out, how are the drones going to land safely on the ground and so on? It's all great, but it takes more than that. My question to the Minister remains. Can the Minister consider going ahead with this work, or will we sit and wait two or three years before we start reviewing the legislation?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-804	Madam President, I would like If it were the case that these incidents occurred as a result of the lack of regulation for drones, I would really have felt a great need to take action extremely quickly. But there are regulations. However, they are not applied sufficiently. This is a problem which, of course, needs to be addressed in various ways through, for example, information measures. Of course, curbing this type of illegal use is very important in order to avoid accidents that have occurred. Is Edward Riedl seriously saying that there is a lack of rules to blame for these incidents? If there was a regulation of the kind that Edward Riedl is asking for, does Edward Riedl mean that all drone users would suddenly follow that code? If so, it is a rather interesting input into a discussion.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-806	Madam President, I would like I'm so glad we're getting into this particular area! No, I do not think that the introduction of laws and rules in itself means that everyone is following them. But let us look at the regulations we have made about car traffic! We've introduced driver's license, zero visions and a lot of other things. We have police surveillance of our roads and more. I think that makes car traffic safer. In this way, Sweden has achieved success in the world. There is no other country in the world that has been better able to reduce the number of road deaths, and that is because we have been working on this methodically. I do not think that in itself there are enough laws and rules, but they form the basis. In the same way, we could have the drones. The Minister and I may have completely different views here, Madam President, but I do not think it is enough just to set up laws and rules and expect everyone to comply with them. I think you have to follow up with a lot of other things after that. That is the work we could begin. I believe that it is not possible to wait two or three years before Easa makes its proposals on how to harmonise these regulations. We will have to do a fairly thorough job despite having this on our table. I believe that this is too long. There are incidents all the time around our country. It is not acceptable for air passengers to be exposed to this kind of risk. We will use laws and regulations, but not just laws and regulations, but follow up with training, monitoring and more, just as we have done in car traffic and in all other areas. There the government has the opportunity to take initiatives. My question remains. I hope that the Minister can imagine that we can help each other in this work before there is an accident. This is something new, but it's happening very quickly.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-810	Madam President, I would like That was a very good clarification, because then I think we are suddenly quite similar on this issue. It is not the case that the government is waiting for something to happen in two three years' time, but it is going on – as I said in my reply now and as I have said in numerous previous interpellation debates on this subject – an intensive work within the Government Office and the Transport Board, but also on other fronts to bring about change. What we want to wait, however, is legislation, so that we do not get legislation that is essentially different from what the European Union will then decide on and that we will therefore have to adapt to. If we develop new legislation, we will have legislation that is in force for quite a short period and that we then need to change again. The risk is obvious if we do as Edward Riedl now proposes. We see that we need to take action here and now. This work is ongoing, not least within the Swedish Transport Agency, with information measures and other things. However, the legislation needs to be put in place throughout the European Union in order to avoid any ambiguity and to ensure that the same rules apply throughout the European Union. It is a question of what action is being taken at what level and at what time. The government is working on this issue. It is not the case that something needs to be started, as Edward Riedl suggests, but this work is in progress, it is important, and it will continue at different levels, at different times and with different orientations. I hope that we can continue to agree on this and work together on it.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-815	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what I intend to do to prevent drivers without valid driving licences from continuing to avoid punishment. The rules of the driving licence law are clear. A driver shall carry with him a valid driving licence for the vehicle in question. Anyone who doesn't have it risks a fine. If the driver carries a different identification document, the driving licence certificate can usually be checked by, for example, the register of driving licences. The licence or identity document shall be submitted for verification if requested by a police officer or car inspector. Anyone who drives a vehicle without authorisation for it can be convicted of illegal driving. A conviction requires that the driver has intended to drive illegally. The assessments made in an individual case are a matter for the law enforcement authorities.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-818	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I think that in this case it was a rather strange answer. In the media we were able to read about a couple of cases where drivers have not been able to show a valid driving licence but still have not been convicted in the district court for illegal driving. Of course, it is not up to me or the Minister to review our courts. However, when the district court repeatedly chooses that free persons who do not have a driving licence, that is, where drivers have not been able to prove that they have a valid document to drive their vehicle, then something has gone very wrong. It cannot be otherwise than that we then consider rewriting the laws. That is, of course, our job in this House, to make law. They were acquitted for lack of evidence. I mean it must be up to the driver of the car to be able to prove that you have the right to drive the car. In the end, everything else becomes completely unreasonable. Madam President, I would like It must remain illegal to drive a car in Sweden without a valid driving licence, and it must reasonably be the case that the person in front of the car has the burden of proof when it comes to driving licences or not. When the courts do not do that interpretation, the only reasonable conclusion is that we need to review the legislation if we seriously believe that the driver of the car is the one who should prove that it has the right to drive the car. I think most people think it's quite reasonable to have it that way. I ask the Minister again: can we have reason to review the legislation in this area if the courts judge in a different direction from what we think is reasonable? I assume, Madam President, that the Minister shares my view that anyone who drives a vehicle should have the right to drive the vehicle and that that person also has the burden of proof for this.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-826	Madam President, I would like I naturally share Edward Riedl's view that anyone who drives a vehicle should have a driving licence in order to be able to do so and that it should also be demonstrated on request. But we have a legal tradition in Sweden that assumes that you are innocent until proven guilty, and it is not the accused who should prove their innocence, but the prosecutor who should prove guilty. I think it's an even more important principle to stick to when we talk about crime and punishment. I would like to say that the price we pay for having such an application, legal understanding and the rule of law is that we sometimes find that people who may or may not be guilty of a crime are still acquitted because they have not been able to prove that there has been an intention or that the crime has been committed by that person. The alternative to that would be that we risk people who are innocent being judged. That risk, I would say, is far worse than the fact that some people who are guilty are not convicted. If Edward Riedl is prepared to reconsider the whole principle of Swedish law enforcement, it is a fairly large and serious issue. I do not agree with this reorientation of the application of law in Sweden.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-831	Madam President, I would like With regard to the legal tradition raised by the Minister in the speaker's chair, I take exactly the same view. I also believe that we, as political elected representatives in this Assembly, in the Riksdag and in the Government, have a common responsibility to explain why sometimes seemingly strange decisions have a sensible function. There are other principles that we certainly do not want to compromise. When it comes to the fact that the individual should not prove his innocence but that society should prove guilt, we are in complete agreement. Nevertheless, we have simplified in a number of areas of our society. If you drive a car, you're obliged to have a driver's license in your car. Similar are found in a variety of areas. We could devote the whole evening in this House to it, but I think that both the Minister and I have other things to do. But it must be the case that the person driving a vehicle is obliged to carry with him a valid document showing that he is allowed to drive that vehicle. If you do not have it and cannot prove that you are authorised to drive the vehicle, you must well be judged for unlawful driving. If this is not the case, we will have enormous concerns in the future, with what is the police's job in the field of controls. I am staying at a driving licence but could take the matter further in many other areas. We'd end up in a strange situation. The police and, subsequently, the law enforcement authorities would then prove that the person is not entitled to drive. I believe that we have changed the approach we have taken in this area in the past. Here I and the Minister simply disagree. It must reasonably be the case that if you do not have a valid driving licence when driving and then cannot prove that you actually have a driving licence that gives you the right to drive the vehicle, then you should also be convicted of illegal driving. Everything else is completely unreasonable.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-836	Madam President, I would like These are partly two different issues. One is the obligation to carry your driving licence when driving your vehicle. You can be fined if you do not meet that requirement. There's one thing. It is about the obligation to carry a driving licence. It is a rather small offence that gives a fairly small amount of fines. The second question concerns a far more serious crime, illegal driving, which is being tried in court. It is therefore not a question of fines being printed on the spot. Since it is a grosser crime, it is also reasonable to apply a different requirement of proof. Then you come back to the basic principle: Is it the individual who should prove his innocence or is it society that should prove guilt? We come back to this important principle, even if it means that we risk getting a number of people who are not convicted because it has not been possible to prove that crimes have been committed. That's a risk we'll have to take. I would like to ask Edward Riedl: What does he mean to do with this? Let us take a person who has a driving licence issued in another country. Then it can be quite difficult to prove. If this person has lost his/her driving licence and maybe he/she has not even noticed it, how can he/she prove that he/she has the right to drive the vehicle? It may be a person who has a valid driving licence but for some reason has not been able to bring it with him. Does Edward Riedl mean that we should have a legal order in Sweden where you can be convicted not because you are guilty but because you cannot prove your innocence?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-841	Madam President, I would like This is a concern when driving in other countries. This happens if you travel from Sweden to other countries. Then it may be that you have to carry an international driving licence. When you come to other countries you are obliged to prove that you have the right to drive a car in these countries. It's nothing weird. It is recommended by the parliamentary administration when we go to South Africa, the United States or whatever it may be. Other countries have a duty to prove that they have the right to drive the vehicle. Otherwise you can get a fine for not having a valid driving licence. That is what it is all about in this case. If you cannot prove that you have a valid driving licence that allows you to drive a vehicle, you should also be judged for it. It would be exciting if the Minister wanted to adopt the same approach in all areas of society: that it should always be society that should prove that the individual has done wrong. It would be exciting, for example, at tax periods if some departures were made about this. It would be exciting to introduce into tax legislation, if nothing else, that it should be the task of society to prove that someone has not done the right thing. There it is exactly the opposite, and that is the point of the matter. In the case of driving vehicles, it is the individual who must present a valid document in order to drive the vehicle. It shouldn't be any other way. I think most people think it's reasonable. If you think that zero vision is important, you surely also want people in traffic who have trained and have the opportunity to follow the traffic rules and other things that we have set up in traffic. I think it is a pity that we cannot find a common vision in this, because I think it is basically reasonable that the driver of a car in our country should also have a valid driving licence for this.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-846	Madam President, I would like If you drive a car in Sweden, you must have a valid driving licence. If you drive a car in Sweden, you must also be able to present this valid driving licence at checkpoint. But if a person can't say a valid driving licence and a fine is imposed for this and then can't prove that he has the right to drive the vehicle, it will be a court hearing. In a court hearing, it is not the individual who has to prove his innocence. It is society that has to prove that the defendant is also guilty. This also applies to tax offences. If you are charged with a tax offence, it is not even your own duty to prove your innocence. It's the Tax Authority, in that case, that's supposed to prove you're guilty. This principle of law is extremely important. If we disagree on that, I would say it is quite serious. This also means that we have some undesirable effects, but the basic principle is obvious: In Sweden you should have a valid driving licence when driving a vehicle, and you should be able to demonstrate this when checking. But it is still the rule of law that it is not the individual who should prove his innocence but society who should prove guilt. We'll never let that go.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-849	Madam President, I would like Mats Persson has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to facilitate the crossing of the Öresund Bridge and when we can expect to see the results. Sweden, like Denmark and Norway, has reintroduced temporary border controls at internal borders as a result of the threat to public order and internal security posed by the large migratory flows in the Schengen area. Sweden has also introduced temporary identity checks under the Act on Special Measures in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country. These checks are carried out before passengers arrive in Swedish territory. I am aware that these two types of controls cause inconvenience to travellers in the Öresund region, but I believe that these measures have been necessary. There is intensive work within the government to protect freedom of movement and Nordic cooperation in the best possible way, while maintaining order and security. We are engaged in a close and constructive dialogue with our Danish colleagues, the carriers and authorities involved. It is hoped that in the future it will be possible to facilitate travel in the Öresund region for those commuting in relation to the current situation, but without prejudice to the intended effects of the ID checks. However, it is too early to lock in to a specific option to achieve this objective.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-853	Madam President, I would like It has now been two months since the ID checks were introduced on the Öresund Bridge. Together with the border controls that have previously been carried out on the bridge, this means that people who travel on a daily basis get considerably longer travel time to work. Above all, many Swedes who travel to Denmark get longer travel time on their way home from work. In the two months that have passed, there have been statements in the media from the three different ministers dealing with the issue. Anna Johansson is one of them, Anders Ygeman is another and Morgan Johansson is a third. It has been stated a will and a direction to try to carry out the checks in a way so that travellers do not get caught up. I welcome that. I think it is basically positive that the government sees that something needs to be done to facilitate the crossing of the bridge while maintaining some form of border control to deal with the situation that has arisen as a result of the flow of refugees. Madam President, I would like I note that two months have passed since the ID checks on the Öresund Bridge were introduced. It is still the case that those who cross the bridge on a daily basis are delayed home from work and sometimes to work. I note that nothing has happened in the almost 60 days since the ID checks were introduced. It is difficult to interpret it differently from the fact that the government does not see the problem. An indication of this is given if you take note of Minister Morgan Johansso statement where he believes that the ID-controls did not create any major problems for travellers but were handled in a smooth way. Then you do not see the reality of people moving across the Öresund region, the people who had thought that they might be looking for a job or the companies that had intended to look for an employee and who are now affected. We are talking about the daily journey time being extended by between half an hour and an hour. Madam President, I would like In my interpellation, I highlight two examples of measures that could be taken to tackle the problem. One example is that identity checks and border controls could be carried out at the same time. This could probably happen at Kastrup Airport, which is the last stop and station on the Danish side before crossing the bridge from Denmark. There is legal support for this in the agreement that exists with Denmark and was signed in connection with the opening of the Öresund Bridge. This is a measure that can be taken to tackle the problem. Another possible measure is that, on the basis of the agreement, dialogue with the Danish authorities on the need for police cooperation could be carried out on board trains by means of identification checks and border controls. This is possibly more complicated to come up with, but these are two examples of measures that could be taken to reduce travel times for those commuting on a daily basis. On the basis of the answer, soon 60 days after the introduction of the ID checks, the Minister is still guilty of the answer. There are no proposals for concrete measures to resolve the situation that many people are in their daily lives right now. What concrete measures are being taken? Are these the two examples I mentioned in my interpellation? Are there any other measures in dialogue with other Nordic countries?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-862	Madam President, I would like It is important to recall the reason why the ID checks were introduced. We are aware of the inconveniences associated with ID controls for those who spend the day. We also know that there are problems for the Öresund integration which we naturally regret, see and take seriously. Having said that, the situation that prevailed in late autumn in Sweden was totally unsustainable. It was important that the government quickly took action. It was important that the decision that made the ID checks possible was taken in the Swedish parliament, and the government then decided on the regulation that made it possible to introduce the ID checks. The risks of not taking the measures had far exceeded the inconvenience caused by the measures. As long as we are convinced that this is the case, the ID checks should remain in place, even if they cause inconvenience. This does not mean that we do not want to do anything about the problems that we can influence. A number of measures are under way. Although it may seem simple, it is a matter of complex legal relationships. Some of this requires a common understanding with another country, in this case Denmark. If ID checks were combined with internal border controls, one of the concrete measures that the government is looking at, this would require the exercise of Swedish authority on Danish soil. This, of course, requires Sweden to have an agreement with Denmark. We would have a lot to say if Denmark, or any other country, suddenly had the idea to exercise authority on Swedish soil. Although it may seem easy to merge these are two different functions. One is an internal border control where the police simply check who is crossing the border with Sweden and who is coming in. The second is an identification check where the carrier has a responsibility to ensure that those travelling by train, ferry or bus from Denmark to Sweden have a valid identity document. This means different teams, different functions and different performers. Although it may seem simple, it is more complicated, and therefore it also takes some time to find out how control can possibly be solved more smoothly than today. At the same time, some things have happened in the meantime. The relevant authorities have issued regulations that have clarified the responsibilities of carriers. There has been a development of management. There is still such work going on. At the same time, the Government Office is working on a number of issues that seek to clarify how the work can be facilitated and how inconveniences can be compensated. I do not really think that we disagree on the substance, but I think it is important that, in complex legal matters, we should be sure that what we are doing is correct and that we are doing the work well.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-870	Madam President, I would like The Government does not need to inform or justify why I.D. controls have been introduced. On this we are in complete agreement, and that is not whether the first interpellation is acting. Interpellation is about, given that there should be ID checks, how the ID controls can be designed in a way so that those who travel across the Öresund Bridge, in a labour market region, to and from work every day, can do so that they do not come home late from work, so that they can pick up the children at preschool or at school – simply have a well-functioning everyday life. Then the Government says that there have been clarifications in instructions to those who carry out the ID checks. That may be true, but it has not affected the everyday lives of the people who each day travel the train across the Öresund Bridge. They still have half an hour to one hour longer journey time on their way home soon 60 days after the ID checks were introduced on 4 January. Even before the IP controls were introduced on 4 January, there was an intense debate both in this House and in the media on the consequences. Even then, a number of proposals were recorded for measures so that controls could be carried out in a more reasonable way so that people do not get caught up in their daily lives. In reality, the government has had more than 60 days to work on this issue. Madam President, I would like Let us look at the agreement that Sweden has with Denmark on the Öresund Bridge, which was signed in connection with the opening of the Öresund Bridge. The agreement clearly stipulates that police cooperation can take place across borders, even in situations where one country sets up border controls against the other country's border. There is legal support, at least on a principled basis, in the agreement with Denmark signed in 1999. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that I have put the interpellation, partly on the basis of the frustration that many of us who work in Skåne feel about nothing happening, partly to try to clarify what the government's strategy looks like and what measures the government is looking at. I'm curious to get a picture of what the schedule looks like. What concrete measures are being taken now, and what is the timetable for getting one or more measures in place so that commuters do not get caught and can move in a simpler way in the Öresund region? What is the timetable for the future?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-876	Madam President, I would like We share the view that the Öresund region and its integration are extremely important for Skåne, Sweden as a nation, for Swedish growth and for Denmark. The development since the opening of the Öresund Bridge has been fantastic. It would have been good if we had not taken these measures. Since external control against the EU has not worked, and there was a large influx of asylum seekers into Sweden at a level that threatened public order in Sweden, we introduced the controls. The introduction of identity checks on all passengers arriving from Denmark to Sweden by train, bus and ferry without any delay in relation to the normal timetable is unfortunately not possible. I don't think Mats Persson thinks that's possible either. On the other hand, the Government has an ambition to facilitate the handling and implementation of the ID controls as smoothly as possible but with the maintenance of the impact of the ID controls. This means that there will continue to be inconvenience for those commuting over the Öresund Bridge and at all over the Sound. It is more important to maintain the effects of ID controls. Of course, the initiatives we can take to ensure that the controls involve as little inconvenience as possible should be implemented. The timetable is as fast as possible. Since this is legally complex and, in some cases, it is also practical and involves negotiations with another country, I cannot at present give a date for the completion of the measures. But I can assure Mats Persson and others that we are not resting on the laurels on these issues. There is intensive work going on to facilitate, where possible, the passages of those who commute. We see exactly the same needs as Mats Persson, but the controls must be carried out in a legally correct way that is also practicable.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-879	Madam President, I would like It is with some dismay that this answer and the answer that the Minister is giving in the debate at the moment. 60 days after the introduction of the ID checks, there are probably many of us who had expected that there would be a concrete plan, that the measures would already be here or that there would at least be answers today that would mean that there was a concrete timetable for what this would look like. Madam President, I would like As I said before, the question is not new. In the discussion about introducing ID checks and with the knowledge we had that there were already border controls, this was not a new issue. It is an issue that has been on the agenda and up in the debate for quite a long time, and it is with great disappointment that I note that the government is not handling the issue with more force and has not made any progress in the work. It is clear that we in the opposition can do nothing more than sit in the gallery and watch. Nevertheless, we can try to push public opinion and try to raise the issue in this House. Of course, it is with great disappointment that I note that so little has happened 60 days after the ID checks were introduced, but I thank you for the answer.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-883	Madam President, I would like I think there is quite a lot of consensus on this. Although some parties were not quite able to take responsibility all the way when this issue was discussed in this House, I dare say that there is a great deal of understanding and commitment to why these controls are necessary. There is also a broad consensus that they should be implemented in a way that entails as little hassle as possible for commuters. That is why the government is putting a lot of effort and time into finding solutions that are more flexible and involve less inconvenience than the implementation we have today. But it is both practical and legally complicated, and we also need to agree with another country on how to implement this. That's why it takes some time, too. We have no reason or ambition to drag this out longer than necessary, but we shall ensure that what we do is right and lasts over time and that we ensure the effects of controls. Work's in progress. I hope to be able to come back in the near future with a clearer answer than that.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-886	Madam President, I would like Eskil Erlandsson has asked me if I believe that Sweden should now change its approach to the role of inspections for continued safer traffic compared to what we had before. Furthermore, Mr Erlandsson has asked me what consideration will be given to the regional policy effects of the Transport Agency's proposal, if implemented, to guarantee inspection stations throughout Sweden. Finally, Eskil Erlandsson has asked me if, if the Government goes further at the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal, it is appropriate to procure inspection activities in sparsely populated areas to ensure a local presence and a functioning service throughout the country. Let me first say that the referral of the entire Swedish Transport Agency's investigation ended on 12 February. As I have previously announced, the Government intends to prepare the proposals internally in the Government Office after the referral has been completed and interested parties, both public and private, as well as stakeholder organisations, have been given the opportunity to make their views known. I do not, therefore, want to precede that process of preparation. Checks on vehicles are carried out to verify that vehicles comply with the required requirements which are relevant from an environmental and road safety point of view. This is clear from the Vehicle Act. The Swedish Transport Agency has an impact assessment to support its proposal, but the Government has also sought other views in a referral. The government also monitors the development of the inspection market after the re-regulation. In August 2015, the Swedish Transport Agency was commissioned by the Government to present a current analysis of the availability of vehicle inspections throughout the country. This is an important issue when it comes to making it easier for people to live, work and run companies throughout Sweden. The assignment includes reporting the availability of vehicle inspection in the rural areas of the country and the availability of inspection of heavy-duty vehicles. The Swedish Transport Agency shall also report whether accessibility has changed following the reregulation in 2010. The assignment must be reported to the Government by May this year. I have also said before that the Government intends to work towards greater safety and safety on the roads. It is also important that vehicles in Sweden undergo control of the emissions generated by exhaust gases. It is about us meeting the goals that Parliament has set for road safety and the environment, zero vision and environmental objectives. These objectives will be taken into account in the Government's assessment of the Swedish Transport Agency's various proposals.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-890	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! At this late hour, I do not intend to start any longer discussion on the substance of the matter. What I want to achieve with my interpellation is an attention in the preparation process that I know takes place after a proposal has been out for a referral. I would like to prevent the accessibility of the activities on which rural areas depend from being impaired and made more difficult to function. I say this because, for example, the forest, mining and agricultural activities, but also much of the manufacturing industry that we have in our country, are located in places that are not close to urban areas. For this reason, I would like to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that the preparation should take into account all the activities on which people, in turn, depend in order to obtain the income and income they need to live the good life. Real and real consideration should be given to them when preparing the proposal which is now on the table of the government and therefore of the government responsible. What I would like in the debate is a promise from the Government that accessibility will not be impaired or made more difficult for these activities, on which a great many people in our country depend.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-895	Madam President, I would like As I see it, this issue is primarily a road safety issue. The EU acquis on this point has now been strengthened for the vast majority of Member States. For Sweden, however, the EU minimum level, if we go on it, means a serious deterioration in road safety because inspection intervals would be significantly reduced. It could possibly also have the result that the interpeller Erlandsson has warned against. It could be that inspection stations should actually be closed down, especially in sparsely populated areas. After the re-regulation with which the previous government boasted so widely, including in debates with Peter Norman and other ministers in this House, one of the companies which at that time really thought it was something to hang on the Christmas tree has actually had its permission withdrawn by the authorities. It will be difficult to inspect the car in some small towns. But it is a question of the company not meeting the requirements in this area. We had a breakfast meeting here in Parliament a few weeks ago. It was a pity that the interpellant was not there, because then he had clearly seen that there were two lines. One was represented by the Swedish Transport Agency alone, the other by everyone else who was there. The extension proposed by the Swedish Transport Agency was not something that the other stakeholders who were there advocated. NTF pointed out, among other things, precisely road safety and the possible consequences of going to the EU minimum level, as proposed by the Swedish Transport Agency. I am absolutely convinced that the government, after receiving the referral – which everyone probably points in the same direction, at least those from the said stakeholders – will strike a sensible balance between these responses. It will also be seen how the tone of these issues goes out in the country. Car inspection is important for a large number of people in this country, and I hope that a sensible proposal will therefore be made. As far as I am concerned, I am not entirely alien to the fact that a new car does not have to be inspected after three years, but after four years, but then it will be difficult from the point of view of road safety to make the checks sparse, all the more so as we know that at least 7 000 cars per year are banned directly at the inspection station and must not be driven from there. This, if nothing else, shows that the inspections are really needed.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-902	Madam President, I would like We can begin by saying that the reason why we have inspections is precisely to ensure road safety and that we do not have a fleet of vehicles that exceeds emission limits and contributes to more environmental pollution than is permitted. This means that the vehicle inspection is not meant to keep a number of companies under arms. There is something strange about the liberalisation or re-regulation of such a market – just the fact that the car inspection, which is a form of public authority, is an interesting thing in itself – without at the same time ensuring that there is access to this service, which is at the same time a statutory obligation for all vehicle owners in Sweden. Eskil Erlandsson is now calling for a government strategy. Where was the sparsely populated consideration when deciding to re-reorganise the car inspection? Were there any demands against those who would carry out this activity that there was access to car inspection with a certain density throughout the country? Did they give a special commission to someone to follow up that there is availability so that, as a vehicle owner, you can inspect your car in all parts of the country? Does Eskil Erlandsson mean that we should refrain from making changes to the vehicle inspection to ensure accessibility rather than from a road safety and environmental perspective? In other words, vehicle owners will pay for unnecessary inspections in practice because the previous government wanted to make the car inspection a market. This is the consequence of Eskil Erlandsson's reasoning in the interpellation. That is not to say that we intend to sparse out in the way proposed by the Swedish Transport Agency. As I began with, we intend to take note of the referrals received and make an assessment based on both the Swedish Transport Agency's report and the referrals received, but it is interesting to take part in the basic discussion. It would be interesting to hear how Eskil Erlandsson views the decision taken on the reregulation and how the then government ensured accessibility throughout the country.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-906	Madam President, I would like I began by saying that at this late hour I did not intend to raise any longer political discussion, but the Government forced me to do so. As I see it, we who are taking part in this debate agree that road safety is the most important aspect. To that is to be added an environmental aspect and also, as I see it, an accessibility aspect. That is my main question. Many of the vehicles that operate in Swedish rural areas depend on what we can call rural vehicles. These are trucks, school transport vehicles and the like, where no change in inspection intervals is proposed. In turn, the activities on which people depend depend depend on the existence of these vehicles. That is why I am so keen that the inspection activities that are essential for the vehicles to be used in the activities for which they are intended remain accessible. As regards the re-regulation of the government of which I was a part, I would like to say: yes, we made these balances. We did so in that we provided the former state monopoly with an obligation to provide the accessibility that people and their activities require. But also for the activities that were partly sold out, agreements concluded that they would be carried out for a number of years to come, i.e. that those who took over them could not liquidate them. I would say that the liberalisation or reregulation that we did has worked in the way that we intended. But now I am afraid that the current government intends to make things worse for people and their activities in the large Swedish countryside – people who depend on these vehicles, because they are road-safe and also environmentally friendly, which benefits us all. I am afraid that the current government does not take this issue seriously. This is an important issue for all those who depend on using a car in their business or privately in the Swedish countryside.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-912	Madam President, I would like Let us not confuse the concepts. Car inspection is primarily a road safety issue. It always has been. It was introduced because the cars were not safe for traffic, and that is still the main reason. The other aspects of the matter — the environment and such — are things that have come to pass. Today it is part of road safety that cars should be as little environmental damage as possible. This with liberalisation is also interesting. If you had allowed the car test to continue, you could have built up the mobile devices that you now have only a few of. Then you could have been out in the sparsely populated area, just as you can be found in several places in Norrbotten, from which I come. There you have mobile facilities and go around and inspect cars. In fact, heavy-duty vehicles are also inspected – not really heavy ones, but some of the heavier ones can be inspected in that way. Then it is interesting that Eskil Erlandsson says that it is the state car test that should take responsibility. But there are no requirements for private operators. Instead, they should be able to reap the benefits of liberalisation. Because that's what you wanted to do: you wanted to create a market that didn't exist, so you did it artificially. You sold out the car test with borrowed funds. That's what you did. You had to create a market that didn't exist. The European directive is, in fact, appropriate to liberalisation as a glove. That is exactly what liberalisation ultimately aims to do, that is, to do only what the market demands and nothing else. And the market does not require such a high level of road safety.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-916	Madam President, I would like We have had the interval in the vehicle inspection in Sweden for a very long time. During that period, quite a lot has happened with regard to the standard of cars. A five-year-old car today has a completely different quality than a five-year-old car just a few years ago. It is reasonable to review, from time to time, for example, inspection intervals and other regulations. We constantly need regulations and activities in society that accompany the development that we have. We shall of course have a continued vehicle inspection that ensures that we have a safe and climate-friendly vehicle fleet. It's absolutely crucial. But, of course, we should not regulate, control and inspect more than is necessary. Somewhere there's a limit. One could, of course, have a discussion: should we instead have a car inspection once every six months? Should we have it every year even for new cars? I think we agree in this Chamber that it would have been completely unreasonable. This means that there is a range of what is reasonable and unreasonable on this issue and at what intervals one needs to carry out vehicle inspections in order to maintain road safety and the climate targets that we have. The question of where exactly that limit is going, the government intends to take forward when we have received the Swedish Transport Agency's report along with the referrals that have been received. However, I note once again that the liberalisation that took place in the course of the car inspection risks putting large parts of the country, where the so-called market is not so strong, but this activity. It is simply not so interesting to conduct a car inspection in a sparsely populated area where you cannot get so many customers. When you make a market, it never responds to needs – that's obvious. A market only responds to demand. Car inspection is not a demand. That is something that is needed. It is therefore a rather inappropriate activity to market. Now the previous government did. We find it difficult to do anything about that. However, it is a problem in relation to availability and the ability to make adjustments over time. I think Eskil Erlandsson might also be able to see that, although I understand that it can be a bit difficult to admit.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-922	Madam President, I would like With regard to the last statement made by the Government, I would like to say: No, I do not actually see the problem that the Government sees. The market is constant. I do not see the fact that there would be a mistake in re-regulation whereby operators other than a state monopoly would also have access to the market. I do not see that it would affect the availability that I, at the stage that is now, am anxious for the Government to make a promise about. It is about the fact that accessibility must remain constant for the people who have businesses – these are the ones I think about most – but also for private individuals. It is a question of maintaining it, even after a review of the current inspection intervals. I have absolutely no objection to it being looked at and reconsidered, but for those activities that are very important for the rural economy, accessibility is a necessity. I am still waiting for a promise from the Government that this will be taken into account and taken into account in the current review.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-924	Madam President, I would like For the government, the climate goals we have set ourselves, the opportunities for people to live and work throughout the country and good accessibility throughout the country are crucial. But it is also, of course, about road safety. Therefore, we will not make changes to the vehicle inspection that involve a breach of road safety or a breach of the climate targets or the opportunity that we are seeking: that people should be able to live, operate and live throughout the country. I already said that in my answer, and I would be happy to say it again in the closing speech. Of course, this does not mean that you can never make changes. All activities need to be reviewed. Even if you eventually come to the conclusion that you should have what you have – that can happen – it's about reconsidering and constantly having an open attitude towards what you do. And what we do we will do because it is needed and is good and not because we have always done so. I think that is a rather healthy attitude on quite a number of issues. But the government puts road safety, accessibility throughout the country and the climate issue very high on the agenda. This also applies, of course, to vehicle inspections.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-927	Madam President, I would like Emma Wallrup has asked me what the timetable is for the government to fulfil the commitment that the state should assume the overall responsibility for control and execution in the maintenance of the Swedish railway. The Government has high ambitions to ensure the quality of existing transport infrastructure and to develop the transport system as a whole. The railway has a major and important role in the Swedish transport system, and well-functioning transport services with trains are important to achieve several objectives of high employment, an increased share of qualified industrial production, reduced climate and environmental impact and fewer killed and injured in traffic. The Government therefore decided in December 2014 on an additional directive to the ongoing investigation into the organisation of the railways ( Dir. 2014:160) in order to bring forward the presentation of questions relating to the construction and maintenance of the infrastructure. The report was submitted in March 2015 under the Koll report on the facility (SOU 2015:42). The sub-report has since been referred, and replies have been received in September 2015. Most of the bodies believe that the interim report provides a good description of the problems and shortcomings that exist in rail maintenance and is in favour of the investigation and supports the proposals for measures that the investigation has. The Government has also commissioned the Finnish Transport Administration in December 2014 and June 2015 respectively to investigate and explain the Finnish Transport Administration's view on alternative forms of organisation of railway maintenance and explain the work carried out with the aim of improving railway maintenance operations. The Government thus has extensive material to prepare and take a position on. Work is now under way within the Government Office, and I intend to return shortly to what steps the Government intends to take.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-931	Madam President, I would like We have climate targets to reach. It is very important that the next infrastructure plan takes climate targets seriously. This is perhaps the biggest issue in Swedish climate policy and really crucial for Sweden to reach the climate targets. Part of this is railway maintenance. We are in a position of climate chaos waiting behind the knot if we do not act. That's where we could lose control. Already we are seeing severe droughts, floods and forest fires around the world. Several states in the United States have had to evacuate people because of strong weather events. Here in Sweden, too, we have seen weather events that we have not seen before in modern times, which disturb infrastructure, create forest fires and so on. It is important that we invest in the railways. It was already in the 80s clearly stated by Margaret Thatchers that there would be more private shareholders in England than LO members. But she also said she didn't want to privatize the railroad. The United Kingdom had to learn the lessons from the liberalisation process. In a short time the State Network Rail was allowed to take over the maintenance again in order to get the railways in order. It greatly reduced the delays. That's how we should work here too. We've been playing business with the infrastructure now, we think. The only thing that has led to is that companies compete with lower prices, which has led to lower maintenance, lower job security and lower wages. We have to stop being market fundamentalists-- Margaret Thatcher era should be left behind. We have seen too much decline, even if she did not even want to liberalise the railways. Today, Sweden's railway system is characterised by fragmentation of a number of actors. Market adjustment is particularly inappropriate within the rail system. The reason for the current train chaos is due to a number of shortcomings, including the opening-up of competition, which have eroded the rail system. Today I would say that the whole system is like a cheese with cavities, cavities that arise where profits are picked out in different ranks. The activities are slumping, and the margins are so small. This means that quality and safety are being eroded, something that we see everywhere in lots of activities throughout our public well-being, and this is also visible here. This is the effect of the liberalisation initiative and Thatchers's plan to create more shareholders everywhere in public welfare. Common to the shortcomings is the fact that profit and return hunting is the driving force for companies and companies within the system and not for the benefit of society. At the same time, we have too little resources for railway maintenance. The misprioritising of resources that instead go to profits and the poor synchronisation is very unfortunate. We would therefore like to see a collective responsibility for the railways of the state, which looks at the form of organisation. I know that on an earlier occasion, Anna Johansson has replied to Seko, who is currently campaigning for state control of the railways, that there is no difference whether the Swedish Transport Administration is responsible for various companies that handle the railways or whether it is under government control.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-939	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying to Emma Wallrup that you do not have to go as far either geographically or in time as Margaret Thatcher in order to find an overbelief in the market as working. The government we had until last year has had an over-reliance in the area by area that if you just market, the invisible hand will go ahead and put everything right. In the area by area, this has proved to be just a pious hope. At the same time, one can conclude that it is one thing to have an opinion before releasing the spirit from the bottle. Spirits are much easier to let out of bottles than to push back in again. At the same time, we see a great need for the state to regain control of the railways. The railway is a system that needs systematic management. However, it is not enough, but it is how Trafikverket works to establish maintenance plans and acquire knowledge about the construction, that we provide resources to carry out maintenance that maintains the quality of the railway and many other things that affect how the railway works. As little as one should be a market fundamentist and believe that the market solves all problems, one should therefore not believe that government or municipal government automatically solves all problems. There are also a lot of other things about organization, knowledge, competence, execution and resources that affect outcomes. I think you need that insight. There is no need to let the pendulum swing from one extreme to the other. On the other hand, it is important that the state has the overall responsibility for the railways, and the government will come back with proposals on how to achieve this.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-945	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would like to problematise precisely the statement from Anna Johansson from an earlier occasion that I concluded with: that there is no difference if the Swedish Transport Administration controls several companies that handle maintenance or if you do so in their own direction. Seko has conducted an investigation and also has a lot of personal experience, since railway workers and other workers within Seko's field of activity have a lot of knowledge. There are several different parts. It is, for example, a question of having flexibility in carrying out preventive maintenance. There is also a need for flexibility in carrying out corrective maintenance. You need to have both knowledge and machines available. Everything needs to be close at hand, because you have to manage the business in different ways depending on how you can plan for travel, train times and so on. It is also much more appropriate for inspections to be carried out in connection with the handling of matters. This was done in the past when it was in government, but now contractors are being sent out to carry out maintenance operations on assignment, and these missions are not so written that it is possible to look at the whole picture. It is very difficult to write such assignments, because the Swedish Transport Administration does not have that knowledge today either. This is an unsmart management of resources, and it is very damaging, because what has happened now is that the safety of the railways is lacking. I traveled by myself on a train that stopped. I asked what it was because, and then there were track workers on the track. The man I asked in the carriage and who worked there said that it happens quite often that the entrepreneurs do not talk about when there are track workers on the track. I have highlighted this in previous debates, but it is precisely these things that occur when you have a lot of subcontractors. Then there are a lot of different ways of coordination, and it can even go this far. I would therefore not agree with Anna Johansson that it does not matter if the Swedish Transport Administration rules over several entrepreneurs or if you have it in your own direction. This is a whole. It's like a bloodstream, and it's all connected. Karin Svensson Smith usually calls it an orchestra, but it is precisely that the railway is a whole, as an organism. Therefore, I think we should listen to Seko who actually has workers working in the business and who even push this line very hard that it is believed that government regulation is the very best thing for the business. Neither Seko nor the Left Party are pushing for it to be complete at once, but we are going over more and more in that direction again in those activities where we first see that it is appropriate to actually get the railways back in order. I think it is important to take the knowledge with you and listen to Seko and listen to those who work with maintenance. What is needed for the whole to work?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-953	Madam President, I would like The statement that Emma Wallrup gave to me and that I would have made to Seko, I would like to know where it came from, because I do not really recognise it. I think it is important to quote that it is correctly reproduced. What I know I've said is that whether it's on your own or buying one service from another, you need to ensure that you have the skills to know what to do. An order needs to be made regardless of whether it is in the form of management or whether it is in the form of a more regular procurement. So you have to have a knowledge of what the facility looks like, you have to know what the jobs are to be done and you have to have resources available to carry out that work. This applies regardless of the form of organisation, and I think I maintain that this is the case. If you have a government operation but do not have enough resources and do not know what needs to be done, it will still not be really good. That's kind of my point. The measure of transfer by state will not alone mean that all the problems we have in the rail system will disappear overnight. This is not the case, but other things and more need to be done. I would also like to make it clear that what Emma Wallrup refers to in this debate, to which Mr Seko is not Mr Seko. Seko as the main organisation has submitted a referral to this investigation which does not require a total renationalisation. The campaign that Emma Wallrup describes is not from Seko either, but it is a club within Seko that runs it. I say this so that we get the facts straight in this discussion. I maintain that we on the part of the government believe that it is important for the state to regain control of railway maintenance. We need to ensure that the resources we provide are used wisely and efficiently. We need to ensure that the players on the railways act with a holistic view and with the best interests of travellers and freight buyers in mind. On this point, we will deliver, and I hope to be able to come back to this House shortly with a picture of how this is to be done.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-959	Madam President, I would like I have spoken to Seko and asked if it really is Seko in its entirety that is behind the campaign, and they told me that it is. The statement, which means about what you're saying now that the main thing is that the Swedish Transport Administration has order, I picked up in an interview with you on the campaign website. You can go in there and read it. I don't know if you've been properly quoted or not. I would like to point out that we in the Left Party were satisfied with our negotiations where we agreed with the government that the state would assume the overall responsibility for maintenance. But I would also like to say that both Mr Seko and we believe that this should be done step by step and balanced. The ultimate goal does not need to be total re-regulation, but we will take control of the parts where it is functionally needed for us to have a whole and for it to work well. I think it should be carried with it that it is important to have machines and knowledge and that control and maintenance are carried out at the same time to save resources, because we have a lack of resources within the system. I would point out that we need to move towards an increase in the overall amount of maintenance work. It does not work legally or functionally with a variety of subcontractors carrying out maintenance. The most important thing to carry along in this is that we need to move in that direction. We need to remove unhealthy interests that do not have the benefit of society in mind, and we need to be careful of tax revenue so that we do not have tasks for maintenance workers that prevent them, as it is today, from seeing to the whole when they are out working. You should work with long continuity and knowledge and to care for the track system as you used to. We need such a model.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-963	Madam President, I would like In all honesty, it must be said that the railways were not entirely trouble-free and smooth by 2010 when these changes were implemented. My memory picture, which is from at least the 80s, is clear. There have always, more or less, been problems with the railways. If it wasn't SJ who went with loss, there were other problems. This means that these are largely old sins that we need to deal with. No matter how you organize it, there are things about governance and management, resources and organisation, and not least knowledge of the management, planning of actions and the order in which they are to be carried out. But we also need to take a firmer and clearer holistic approach from the state to rail maintenance. There, I think me and Emma Wallrup are in complete agreement. Above all, the aim of what we are doing is to enable more passengers to trust that they can get to work on the railways and that freight buyers can rely on the goods to arrive on time and where it will be so that we have a rail to meet the needs of both companies and travellers and contribute to jobs and development throughout our country. I think we are in complete agreement on this.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-966	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the work situation of school leaders. Furthermore, he has asked me how I intend to work to create good conditions for the educational leadership of school leaders. The school management function is central to the quality and development of school activities. The Head of Preschool and the Vice-Chancellor have overall responsibility for the development of the activities as a whole and focus on achieving the national goals. It is therefore important that vice-chancellors and pre-school managers are well placed to develop their pedagogical leadership based on the requirements of the School Act, curricula and other regulations. According to the Education Act, each principal must ensure that the principals attend a specific post education or an education equivalent to it. The training must begin as soon as possible after the Vice-Chancellor has taken up his/her position and completed within four years of the date of admission. The compulsory position education is currently provided at six universities. Since 2011, a training effort has been underway for Vice-Chancellors focusing on governance and leadership issues. The aim is to give the vice-chancellors the opportunity to develop and deepen their pedagogical leadership based on the requirements of school teams and curricula, as well as on scientific basis and proven experience. Rectors who have participated in further training show that they have been strengthened in their role as educational leaders. The Government has therefore decided to extend the initiative until 2018. The Government has also initiated a corresponding competence development effort for preschool managers aimed at developing the educational leadership of preschool managers. The training started in autumn 2015, and the investment is expected to continue until 2018. Linus Sköld points in his interpellation to the average salary level of school leaders being lower than the average salary level of managers. The Government recently decided on the Lär arlöneliftet, which means that a special state grant will be introduced at mid-2016 in order to encourage the school heads to give specially qualified teachers, preschool teachers or leisure teachers a higher salary. Within the framework of the initiative, it is also possible for teachers in senior positions to take part in the state grant for higher salary if they meet the requirements for a licence, most of their working hours work with teaching and tasks related to teaching or other tasks of an educational nature and fulfil the other conditions of the state grant regulation. However, the focus of the pay boost is to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, and the responsibility for wage setting lies with the social partners, an independent profession. It is crucial that the managers assume their employer responsibility by prioritising investments in the salaries of school leaders. It is important that the level of pay for school leaders also corresponds to the responsibility and often complex task of school leaders. As mentioned in the interpellation, audits from, among other things, the State's school inspection show that many school leaders feel that due to a large number of administrative tasks they cannot allocate sufficient time for educational management of the business. The report by the Vice-Chancellor and the steering chain (SOU 2015:22) states that many of the Vice-Chancellor's problems are due to weaknesses in the so-called management chain. In the investigation, the school's chain of command refers to the chain of government – the principal – the principal – the principal – the teachers. In the case of independent schools, the corresponding chain often consists of the state – the principal – the head of the principal – the headmaster – the teacher. The report has been referred and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. All in all, a series of efforts are being carried out aimed at improving the conditions for school leaders to develop their pedagogical leadership through, for example, further training. However, I share Linus Sköld's assessment that more needs to be done.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-976	Madam President, I would like In his reply, Gustav Fridolin almost exclusively deals with educational efforts as a tool for improving the ability of school leaders to exercise their pedagogical leadership. It is also the main thrust of the report, the Vice-Chancellor and the management chain, to which the Minister for Education referred. I think that the issue we are now debating here can be taken up a little more perspective than that. First of all, we seem to agree that school leaders have a key role to play in the quality and development of education. We have identified the role of school leader as a key to success. From an operational perspective, the perspective that says that the school leader is important for the school's development and quality, continuing training and post training seem to be reasonable tools for the vice-chancellor to strengthen his internal security and competence to act within the framework of pedagogical leadership. It is about strengthening the profession, understanding your role in a complex system in a more nuanced way and building larger networks. There are many benefits in terms of activity. The second perspective that I think we need to have on this issue is more about external factors. It is therefore a work environment perspective. I totally miss that in the Minister for Education's answer. We have a school management corps in the country that is being implemented quickly, which is considering leaving the profession, which has numerous units and which has a complex and difficult to balance mission. School leaders are often on sick leave as a result of work-related stress, describe themselves as stressed when the state investigator asks and so on. There are quite a few indications of a lack of work environment, in quite a number of different investigations from the union to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to the inspection to government investigations. Then I think we need to accept it as a systemic issue. If we accept it as a health and safety issue and a systemic issue, it does not seem entirely reasonable to propose further training as the medicine to cure the disease. It is as unreasonable as thinking that continuing training for staff would solve the structural problem of health and safety at work with shared health and long-term care. The Minister for Education concludes in his reply that he shares my view that more needs to be done. So my supplementary question is simple: what could it be?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-983	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld makes a description that many have made of the investigation that Professor Olof Johansson did, the Vice-Chancellor and the chain of control. It states that the analysis was important but that the proposals on continuing training were not sufficient to cover the analysis. This is a reasonable point of view that has come from many consultation bodies. But if I'm going to complicate the picture somewhat, the argument that Professor Olof Johansson has in the investigation, about why continuing education can also be an answer to at least some of the structural problems that the investigation highlights, and what Linus Sköld describes two paradoxes. The first paradox is that today we have a school law that basically gives principals the opportunity to delegate all tasks except the pedagogical leadership. Yet it is the pedagogical leadership that the headmaster thinks you do not have time for. It is clear that there is a paradox in what the law looks like and what conditions you as Vice-Chancellor feel that you have to work from outside according to the law. The second paradox is that Olof Johansson can see in his studies that even vice-chancellors who have received more staff for relief, administrative and other staff that they can delegate to, in many cases feel that they have just as little time left to the pedagogical leadership even with those staff. It continues to have the administrative tasks and expectations to implement them rather than the educational leadership. It is the two paradoxes that make much of Olof Johansson's answer is continuing education. It should be said that it is not just about the training of principals but just as much of politicians, administrative managers and others in the management chain who need to know the school law at least as well as a principal. Having said that, and with that explanation for the investigation that we are now preparing, I would nevertheless like to reply more specifically to Linus Sköld's question as to what I mean when I say that more may need to be done. This is exactly the kind of discussion we are having with the partners in the national collection of teaching. When it comes to principals, I think you gather quite a lot about three parts. It's about time for the Vice-Chancellor's mission, it's about a mandate to the Vice-Chancellor and it's about support in the Vice-Chancellor's task. As far as time is concerned, we will come back to the fact that, in order for the Vice-Chancellor to have more time for his task, it must be cleared up in tasks that are currently on the Vice-Chancellors and ensure that there are more employees who can do the job, that there is access to administrative and other staff. In cleaning up, it is about the same things that we have power over from the state, which weigh on the role of the headmaster and which weigh on other categories of staff, especially teachers. If you reduce the national tests, digitize them, it also increases the headmaster's time as the work is organized in many schools. If we improve the rules for special support and can disconnect the Vice-Chancellor from some of those tasks, it also means that in another way more time can be given for the pedagogical leadership. There are two cleansings in tasks that we can provide from the state side and which frees time for the principal. Of course, government investment in more employees is also part of this. As far as the mandate is concerned, I believe – and I would like to develop it later – that the initiative we make, in Collaboration for the best school, in schools that have particularly tough conditions, is a good way to strengthen the principals and principals' ability to work at the toughest schools within the current chain of governance. This is done by bringing their tasks together in an action plan where the state and the principal together stand behind measures that they want to see implemented and that have support in research or experience. In terms of support, we see that several of the national school development programmes that the government has ordered and that the Swedish National Agency for Education is now implementing are directed precisely to the Vice-Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor's work situation.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-995	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for that comprehensive answer. The management chain as a concept gives a somewhat simplified picture of how the school is managed. Actually, it only covers the formal parts that we can influence in this house and in the administration and so on. As the Minister for Education points out, there are also more elusive and informal governances, such as culture and expectations of leadership, which are difficult to describe within the concept of the chain of governance. However, in my continued reasoning, the chain of command, in the sense that the Minister of Education used in his first reply, is still reasonable to use. The role of the school leader is complex. We've established that before. This is partly due to how the management of the school's mission works. The chain of command is not straight. The school leader is basically a government representative in a certain sense and is the direct performer of the school team and curriculum. We also have indirect regulations that pass on responsibility via the principal to the school leader. In many cases, the school leader is a primary municipal executive or CEO of a private company. Those roles are trivial to balance. As has been pointed out by the educational committee, the school leader has been given the mandate in legislation to shape the internal organisation of the school, which he himself deems appropriate. It is, of course, set against the expectations of the environment. Those who venture to have expectations of what the school leader should do are from parents to politicians, students, administration, the media, the general public – virtually everyone. At the same time, the school leader does not have the means to do so, at least not usually. The objectives of the business are also so extensive and interpretable that it is difficult to know where the assignment begins and where it ends. At the same time, the activities of external actors are measured in length and horizontally – the inspection, PISA, the principals, the Swedish National Agency for Education and the media. Even the unions are making statements about the quality of schools on the basis of measurements they make themselves. The chain of governance is not conducive to trust or trust. That is a conclusion that I would like to recall that Olof Johansson drew in his analysis. Lack of trust is a problem with this way of running the school. I think that a school leader would have reasonable conditions to balance the complex task if the school leader owned his profession and felt trusted, if the management chain was characterised by trust between levels. It doesn't.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1002	Madam President, I would like I really share the picture; when we have a weak or even lack of chain of control in Swedish school, the students are ultimately affected, but there is probably no one as exposed in the system as the principal, because the principal is met with so many and opposing expectations from different directions. Should you turn it around and build more of trust – Olof Johansson used the concept of trust – and build a culture of responsibility, which is characteristic of international school systems that lyckas well, as well as schools and principals in Sweden that succeed well, I think we need to make system changes in the construction of the Swedish school and the Swedish management chain. That is why the government has called for a school commission where the research and profession are represented and have the opportunity and free mandate to put forward proposals on the governance changes and other changes needed to create a more equal school system and a much clearer division of responsibilities. When everyone in the Swedish school system knows where their responsibility starts and ends, you can build the culture of responsibility that is needed. So can we do nothing until we wait for the School Commission's reports? The first comes later this year, the second next year. Yes, we can! That is why I divided my previous speech according to the measures we are taking too early in terms of mandate and support. I would like to develop one of those measures, namely cooperation for best schools, which is aimed precisely at those schools that have the toughest conditions and which are most difficult to give students the opportunity to achieve the objectives. A common and recurring situation in those schools is that you have principals who sit very short of time. You have a very quick exchange of principals. As Vice-Chancellor, it is very difficult to get the mandate needed to continue working. Just as Linus Sköld describes, it is about having a lot of different expectations of what to do in their task, which ultimately makes it very difficult to carry out a functioning school development work. It will be a school that does not give the best to the students because the person responsible for doing so must constantly contend with different expectations and different spheres of power that govern the school. It is about politicians, or equivalent within the free school system, and also administration, parents, the media, pupils and the various agencies of the state. What we saw we need to do in these schools – in our case, in anticipation of clearer governance changes, and probably even after them – when you have the situation that it is difficult or hard when it is impossible to function as Vice-Chancellor is to gather the state and the principal behind a joint action plan centered around measures that are given the Vice-Chancellor's mandate to implement, measures that have been seen to work in other parts of the school system and that have support in empirical or research. It is simply a kind of agreement between the state and the principal that the principal has the opportunity to implement. The proposal was originally prepared by, among other things, the Swedish School Leaders' Association after the criticism of how the Swedish School Inspectorate and the Swedish School Administration worked against schools. This is starting to roll out now. The first contracts have been signed. The agreements, with varying conditions, go down at the individual school level for the principal and are complemented by new agreements for those schools that take on the growing task of receiving many new arrivals in a short time. About a hundred agreements will be concluded between the state and the principals in 2016 and 2017. I think this is how you have to work with those schools to meet the problem Linus Sköld gives of varying expectations. Then there is a clear expectation of the Vice-Chancellor to relate to and an opportunity to sort out others' expectations. It can provide answers to the Vice-Chancellor, the media and even their own teachers when needed.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1009	Madam President, I would like When I talk about different perspectives, I don't mean that you should sort out the student perspective. It is important for me to emphasise that. But from a student perspective, it is important that the prerequisites for the Vice-Chancellor's pedagogical leadership work. Then I see three perspectives that work together. It is about governance, business focus and work environment focus. I would like to ask for clarification. In the initial answer, there were some cryptic formulations about the Teacher Salary Lift. I would just like to have this clarified. The Minister spoke about a teacher in senior management and other tasks of an educational nature. Does this mean that school leaders are included in the Teacher Salary Lift? I imagine the Minister for Education would like to clarify that. Whatever the case, I don't really have much more to add. It is about governance, work environment and operations. Let us create reasonable conditions for good educational leadership!
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1012	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation debate. I will clarify the cryptic sentences, which are directly taken from the teacher's salary lift regulation. No, one cannot say that school leaders per se are covered. On the other hand, a major problem has been corrected, which we believe exists in career services, and which, of course, is much greater when it is not about new posts, namely that teachers who take a senior position, that is, teachers who become school leaders, should not be excluded. If you are a teacher and become a school leader, it should not be the case that the state funds available are suddenly removed. It will be a very strange way to communicate to teachers who choose to develop in their profession by becoming school leaders. We have corrected this in the Teacher Salary Lift. However, it should be said – and that is what I emphasised – that the teacher's salary boost, which on average represents 3 000 per person in school who is hit by it, is not what can correct the fact that school leaders earn so much less than other managers. The heads must take a much greater responsibility for the recruitment of school leaders, including in terms of investment in wages, and we are very clear about that. There is no government initiative that can help, but it needs to take on the basic principal responsibility. Linus Sköld summarises with the words control, business focus and work environment focus. I feel that's what we've been sticking to. I can divide what I say from that. Governance is about strengthening the chain of command. It is one of the School Commission's basic missions. Collaboration for the best school is one way to do it right now for those schools that have the toughest. Operational focus is something that the national school development programmes have, and this focus will be much clearer for school leaders who have the opportunity to take part in them. Work environment focus is about cleaning up tasks, ensuring that there is time for the educational leadership and realizing that the government efforts we make on more staff must be able to lead to that, based on the school's local conditions, the staff that you see is necessary for the school to be able to develop. For example, we have constructed primary school.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1015	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson has asked me what measures I intend to take to address the problems that exist within the psychiatric full-day care, how to ensure the long-term development of the psychiatric full-day care and compulsory care, and whether I intend to initiate some additional directive for the ongoing investigation. Mental ill health is one of the government's most prioritised issues in the area of healthcare. For several years, significant state resources have been allocated to municipalities and county councils through annual agreements between the state and Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. The agreement concluded for 2016 amounts to 845 million. The aim of the agreement is to stimulate development work and create better conditions for local and regional analyses of the challenges facing each county. It is also about identifying needs and development goals locally and regionally and improving young people's mental health. The analysis will result in targets of five years in five focus areas and local or regional action plans to achieve them. This creates unique opportunities for targeted regional initiatives. I take very seriously the information that has emerged from the review of the Caliber Kalibers programme. As the interpeller points out, it is a fundamental task for society to protect children and adults from all forms of sexual abuse. Ensuring good care and ensuring patient safety is largely a management responsibility that rests with the health professionals. In this context, I would like to highlight the support provided by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to ensure a good quality of care, namely the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice on management systems for systematic quality work. Weaknesses in systematic quality work increase the risk that the type of events indicated by the interpeller may occur. It is therefore of the utmost importance that these provisions are kept alive at all levels of care. The supervisory authority The inspection of health and long-term care plays an important role here, but the fundamental responsibility for maintaining a high level of awareness of different risks rests on responsible management functions. Furthermore, it is my assessment that the long-term development of psychiatry can be stimulated by the work of the newly established Council for Governance with Knowledge. The Council deals with strategically important issues that contribute to the achievement of the right knowledge by principals and professionals on their terms. It is about knowledge that contributes to good quality in care for the benefit of patients and patients. The Council includes nine authorities, and the Director-General of the National Board of Health and Welfare is chairman. According to the regulation(2015:155) on government governance with knowledge regarding healthcare and social services, government governance with knowledge of healthcare and social services should support the principals – municipalities and county councils – and the profession. The Council shall work to ensure that knowledge-based governance is supportive of the principals and professions and that it is coordinated, effective and adapted to their needs. The Council will also work to include the views and experiences of patients and users. With regard to the question of the national coordinator's directive and mandate, I would like to point out that the directives of the coordinator clearly indicate that the coordinator's task is to promote the exchange of experience, cooperation between the actors concerned and coordination between the activities of the same principal. The coordinator also has the task of continuously identifying development needs in the area and presenting them to the Government with proposals for measures. Thus, through the appointment of the National Coordinator, the Government has created a function to continuously identify and highlight the challenges facing psychiatric care and propose changes that can contribute to improved quality.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1023	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Health, for your answer. It feels in many ways as if we are in complete agreement on the basics that psychiatric care is and must be a high priority in health care. Much is also being done, just as the Minister for Health describes it. The question which I think is well worth discussing is whether it is enough and whether it is clear enough to give the results to which I think we are both, so to speak. Psychiatry is the only activity in health care that has the right and sometimes the duty to care for people and their will, which of course is a major interference in privacy. It is something that arouses strong feelings. Some see forced care as an expression of care, while others point to the danger that it can lead to abuse and abuse. Everyone agrees that it requires a great deal of thought and compassion, as well as a high degree of legal certainty. The conflict between the right and the duty of coercion is a burning issue which it is important that we, who have some form of responsibility, constantly consider and debate. As the Minister for Health so well puts it, it must never become a trait. Madam President, I would like The purpose of my interpellation with the Minister is to keep the dialogue on important psychiatric issues going. Today we are debating the care of the most severely ill. The experience of somatic healthcare shows that all these fairly rapid and thorough development processes of psychiatry place great demands on leadership, instruments and systematic follow-up. We can all suffer from a psychiatric diagnosis or illness, and someone close to us may suffer. But as a patient in psychiatry, you are not always treated in the same way as others, especially if you are looking for care for a physical condition. If you add an unsafe health care environment, what happens then? Suicide occurs to an excessive extent. Doctors often misinterpret the physical symptoms of psychiatric patients, as if all belongs to the mental illness. This applies mainly to the most heaviest diagnoses with the most severely ill. When there are reports like this of pure abuse, insecurity and trinitarian care, it is clearly troublesome, to put it mildly. Psychiatry has a responsibility to look after the whole human being. With all this gathered: Better knowledge is needed to counteract attitudes and stigmatisation. More research is needed, and improved drugs and psychological therapies are needed. In the reports that we have seen, there may be a more or less strong element of the patient blaming himself – it is the patient who challenges, the patient who is causing, just as there are moves in the heated debate. Since these are key issues in the development of psychiatric care, my question remains: where does the Minister think the clarity lies in the development work that has been described, and where is the governance of care for the most severely ill? It is a well-lawed, very broad work, but where is the tip? And what has replaced the long-term commitment of governments in psychiatry for many years?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1033	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank Bengt Eliasson for the interpellation. As the interpellier points out, it is very important to keep the debate and discussion on these issues constantly going. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that the agreement that the Government has now reached with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils has some other characteristics than the previous agreements in this area. I think there are quite a few of us who agree that, although the state has been involved in the fight against mental illness in various ways, many of the efforts have been of a temporary nature. They have focused on specialised psychiatry, and they have often lacked the long-term perspective that is so much needed. Based on the experience that has been gained over a number of years, we have tried to do differently this time, ensuring that we have a longer term in the efforts and agreements that are now being made and not only focus on specialised psychiatry, but also look at how we can seriously establish early intervention and prevention and, to a large extent, health-promoting work. We believe – not least on the basis of the most severely ill patients – that we need to get in early intervention and work much more preventive. A major debate for several years has been the queues of specialized psychiatry. I can see that many of those in those queues would never have had to stand there if they had been helped earlier or if there had been preventive work in place, so that one had never had to develop any mental illness. If we can work with a wider holistic perspective as a focus, we will also relieve the specialist psychiatry, which allows those resources and knowledge to go to help the patients suffering from the most severe mental disorders. I think that is very positive. Another aspect that has not yet come up in the debate is that if we are to improve the quality of specialist psychiatry and help patients with the most difficult diagnoses, then we also need to concentrate much more on the supply of skills than we have done so far. We know that there is a lack of a number of specialities and a number of professions in specialised psychiatry. That is why, from the first day as Minister for Health, I have announced that the government needs to take increased responsibility for the supply of skills – not for us to take away from the heads in any way their responsibility for the existence of the necessary staff and competence on the ground, but because we see that this is a problem that exists throughout the country. S taten has a unique opportunity, through the education system but also in other ways, to contribute to improved skills provision. I see it as one of the most important efforts we can make from the national level to improve the quality of specialist psychiatry and in that sense also to help the patients suffering from the most severe mental disorders.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1040	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Sometimes we debate psychiatry just as if it is purely and unilaterally about staff, systems and the working environment. A very unscientific look out over our 21 county councils and regions shows that you do not directly have any specific guidelines or action plans concerning sexual abuse. I personally didn't think that was the case. I thought you had this, but you haven't. For example, here in Stockholm I have been told that it exists in some departments, but not in BUP, for example. In my county of Halland there are general guidelines, but not some with a focus on sexual abuse. It looks much better if you ask about threats and violence generally directed at staff, but a little worse when it comes to the same between patients. In the care of these patients, it is always a question of interaction, just as the Minister highlighted. Staff are constantly aware of the problem. They are trained in detecting and counteracting, and then the management will ensure that this awareness continues and continues through the care. This is obvious in all health care processes. There's nothing you can relax and leave to assumptions. That's exactly what I'm afraid is happening right now – that you have moved pointed focus to a broader general grant, which makes you relax and leave to assumptions. Then problems arise. Health care is used to working with action plans and guidelines. That's how you work. This applies to both local and regional and, of course, national guidelines. What I am calling for is the political clarity of calling for quality work in depth. It is about guidelines together with quality registers and follow-up programmes and supervision that lead the care forward. In the old priority that changed to the work now being carried out through the Council for Governance with Knowledge, National Coordination and all the elements that the Minister has highlighted, I feel that the governance has become more fragmentary, general and sweeping. It has also become a little more unclear as to the direction of travel. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress that I do not want in any way to belittle the work that is being done or simply to say that it was better before, because it was not. At the same time, however, I would like to highlight the discussion on the importance of direction and the importance of clarity and governance. Clarity is fundamental. It is possible and even likely that the previous government's efforts went too far into detail and were in and poking too much. But how does the Minister view the possibility that what is happening now has turned over the pendulum too far in the other direction so that it has become too broad? Is there any thought of making a reconciliation along the journey and perhaps clarifying it?
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1049	Madam President, I would like I'll start by answering the question right away. I think that there is always a need to make sense during the journey, both in terms of the direction of travel and the pace at which you have moved closer to the goals you have set yourself. That is why, among other things, we have appointed a national coordinator to be the one with a greater focus than other parts of the national level might have on these issues. I think it is important to see that there is a wide range of efforts now being made within the framework of the agreement. What I tried to explain in a previous post is that I think the breadth is absolutely necessary. We cannot just, as has been done before, focus on part of the chain. Then you risk that focus does not become a filler. If we talk about specialised psychiatry, it can get an influx of patients who might never really have ended up there. But we also know that if we are to be able to meet the great, gigantic challenges of mental illness in society, we need to involve early intervention and prevention to a much greater extent. In order to get the whole chain together and spread the knowledge that too often exists in psychiatry isolated here and where in the country or at different political levels, we have tried to look at a successful area of health care that in recent years has undergone revolutionary changes, that is, cancer care. Since the national cancer strategy was developed and started to be implemented in 2009, we have seen the establishment of regional cancer centres which, in turn, have been able to contribute to the spread of knowledge faster than before. At the moment, we are also in an intensive phase of rolling out standardised healthcare processes, ensuring short queues and making care more equal across the country. Not least with inspiration from the work carried out in the field of cancer, within the framework of the agreement reached by the government, SKL is reviewing the possibility of establishing similar regional centres, nodes, around the country, which can also help to spread knowledge in order to make psychiatric care more equal across the country and, of course, to ensure that the irregularities and terrible abuses we are discussing today can be prevented and better prevented in the future. The work initiated within the framework of the agreement that exists between the government and SKL can also contribute to the work on a problem that Bengt Eliasson raised in his first post, i.e. we can look at the entire patient and not only to the psychiatric diagnosis. It is also a matter of having one's physical problems satisfied and investigated to a much greater extent than today. By involving primary care and pointing out that it has a clear responsibility for combating mental illness, one can also increase awareness of the physical problems that many of the patients suffering from mental illness have and thus also make the somatic care even better for such groups of patients. Our agreement is based on seeing the whole chain and trying to get a wider context. It's important to stick to whatever part of the psychiatry we're discussing.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1057	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that we have talked about prevention and early detection, that patients should not fall between the chairs. We fully agree on that work. It's something I've been working on myself for years. I am also pleased that the Minister highlights the possibility of copying the RCC, Regional Cancer Centre. It's something I started writing small simple debate articles about, mostly in local press, three four years ago. It's interesting that it's finally starting to sprout and take shape. It is definitely a success factor. Madam President, I would like In the late hours, I note that health care in general and psychiatry in particular have made great progress in recent decades. This has been made possible, above all, by dedicated research. That is the only theme we have not addressed yet. The basic competence of health professionals is increased. So has the Minister. It has to go on. In psychiatry, the focus has been on education for basic staff and support for collaboration has been given high priority, but basic research and clinical research have not been given equal priority. It is time for a large, broad and targeted psychiatric research effort. To lift up psychiatry requires a sustained and long-term effort. A determination is required, and clarity is required. I would like to thank the Minister for Health for the debate, and I hope that we can come back regularly on the important subject. Thank you, Madam President, and good night.
i-fdcb81a7a6ccea58-1062	Madam President, I would like I believe, just like Bengt Eliasson, that there are many additional aspects of the work on mental illness that we need to cover in future debates, in addition to those we have discussed this evening. A subject we have not touched on very much, but which I think is absolutely crucial for us to succeed in reforming health care and, of course, also to take the work on mental illness forward, is what Bengt Eliasson hastily touched upon in his first speech. It is about the view of mental illness and the stigma that often affects patients who suffer from different types of psychiatric diagnoses. We can do much more by talking about the problem and spreading knowledge not least in healthcare. One side effect of this that several psychiatrists and others who work in specialized psychiatry have testified is that it is not only patients who suffer from prejudice and a stigma. So do people who work in psychiatry, both among colleagues and among the general public. This may be part of the explanation for the shortage of many professions in specialised psychiatry. I think it is important to highlight these abuses and see what we can do about them, not least if we talk about making research on mental illness more attractive. Finally, although I also believe that we need more research, there is already a great deal of knowledge that needs to be disseminated in a much better way, both in healthcare and to other actors in society, so that we can get the preventive work with early interventions that we both seem to agree on needed. I thank you very much for the interpellation and for a very good debate.
